As seen on The Five Police Group Boycotts Ben &amp; Jerrys After Black Lives Matter Endorsement As more women come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct against Donald Trump, the Republican nominee is lashing out at the mainstream media, which he claims is running with this "total fiction" to distract from Hillary Clintons scandals. At a rally in Greensboro, N.C., Trump said these accusations are part of a conspiracy involving the Clinton campaign and what he called the corrupt media. Greg Gutfeld agreed with much of Trumps assessment on "The Five" today, saying, "The media wants Hillary to win. Judge Jeanine on Trump Accusers: All on One Day? Its a Little Too Convenient Gutfeld explained that Trump has actually been "set up," as he was given countless hours of coverage and "billions of dollars of free media," only to have the rug pulled out from under him. " and] Hillary and Obama, they knew elevating Donald Trump - giving him an air of respectability in the press, as well - turned him into the Republican nominee. Watch the co-hosts of "The Five" discuss above, and let us know what you think in the comments. New WikiLeaks Bombshell: Clinton Aides Discussed Emails to and from POTUS
All those who support him are being lied to daily. Once again, Trump has told his gullible supporters that we are letting people in by the thousands who are not vetted and that we don’t know who they are. Refugees must first apply to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which collects documents and performs interviews. Less than 1 percent of refugees get approved for relocation. If they are approved, they are referred to the State Department to begin the vetting process. More information is collected and they are put through security screenings from the National Counterterrorism Center, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security. Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms If the refugee is Syrian, they must go through another layer of security, which includes further checks by a special part of Homeland Security, the USCIS fraud detection and National Security directors. There, interviews with USCIS officers would take place and fingerprints run through biometric databases of the FBI, Homeland Security and Department of Defense. If all these are passed, health screenings take place. Then refugees are enrolled in cultural orientation classes while information continues to be checked. This process typically takes 18 to 24 months after applying to the UN. This is the most vigorous vetting anyone has ever faced to enter the U.S. Donald Trump is trying to instill fear in the gullible supporters that he has. He has lied about his health records, his tax returns, President Obama’s birth certificate, election fraud (31 cases of voter impersonation in over 1 billion votes) and hundreds of other things, and those who choose to believe him either don’t care about his lies or aren’t smart enough to find out the truth for themselves.
Former FBI Assistant Director James Kallstrom weighs in on significance behind the FBI reopening the case against Hillary Clinton. The FBI announced Friday afternoon it will reopen its investigation of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private e-mail server during her tenure as Secretary of State. The decision comes as the FBI said it is reviewing new information related to the original case. James Kallstrom, former FBI assistant director, discussed the news on the FOX Business Network. These guys that run the FBI now came to the conclusion that they look like absolute fools and that they’ve done a horrible job, they’ve thrown the agents under the bus, they discredited the FBI’s reputation, he told Neil Cavuto. And I can tell the people listening to you, it’s not the FBI agents, believe me. It’s two or three people at the top of the FBI. Kallstrom believes the government agency shouldn’t have started an investigation in the first place if it didn’t meet certain guidelines. If they were not ever going to impanel a grand jury, that means you really don’t conduct a criminal investigation. You don’t have subpoena power, you don’t have warrants. That was apparently apparent early on in this investigation. I would’ve liked to have seen somebody with the integrity not to just conduct an investigation that doesn’t meet any of the criteria of how the FBI operates, he stated. He added: I suspect that they never had a really bonafide investigation because the Justice Department wouldn’t let them do it.
The Supreme Court says Theresa May does not have the power to trigger Article 50 alone What is Article 50? Britain has to tell the EU that it wants to go by invoking Article 50 of the EU rulebook for the first time in history. Article 50, which is set out in the Lisbon Treaty, is the legal mechanism for the withdrawal of a member state from the EU. The use of Article 50 will start the timer on a two-year process of exit talks over Britain’s political divorce from the 28-member bloc. At the end of the two-year period, Britain will be expelled from the EU unless member states unanimously decide to extend the deadline. The new Prime Minister Theresa May has said that she will trigger Article 50 before the end of March 2017. But the process could be delayed because the Government is being forced to get approval from Parliament in order to do so. The Supreme Court has held up a High Court decision that the use Article 50 needs to be agreed by Parliament to the delight of EU voters. Pro-EU will be given a fresh opportunity to try and block Brexit by voicing their concerns in the House of Commons and Lords. There are fears that Brexit could be delayed until after the German election in autumn 2017 or even postponed indefinitely. There is no timescale for how soon after a referendum Article 50 must be invoked. But the British Government is under pressure to start the process as soon as possible in order to put an end to the uncertainty that has engulfed Europe. The European Council has said: We now expect the United Kingdom Government to give effect to this decision of the British people as soon as possible, however painful that process may be. Any delay would unnecessarily prolong uncertainty. We have rules to deal with this in an orderly way. Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union sets out the procedure to be followed if a member state decides to leave. Fri, June 24, 2016 After yesterdays referendum, here is a look at what will happen immediately following the historic vote for Britain to leave the EU. Brexit: What to expect next Is the EU referendum legally binding? The EU referendum result is not legally binding so in theory Parliament could ignore the will of the people by deciding to stay in the EU. This is because Parliament is sovereign and the EU vote was an advisory referendum, as opposed to a binary referendum which has a fixed outcome. Therefore the EU referendum legislation does not force the Government to automatically take Britain out of the EU. But the political reality is that Theresa Mays Government has no choice but to follow through on the electorate’s wishes. Politicians have repeatedly stressed that there was no going back if the British people voted to back Brexit in the referendum.
A photo of empty bus seats caused a heated debate on Facebook because people thought they saw six women in burqas. The image was shared to a Norwegian anti-immigration group with the question: What do people think about this? Members sounded off, saying things like: It looks really scary, should be banned. Get them out of our country, those who look like collapsed umbrellas. I thought it would be like this in the year 2050, but it is happening NOW! The user who posted the photo wanted to show people the dangers of jumping to conclusions and spreading fake news. Norways right-wing government recently proposed a law that would ban Muslim women from wearing full face veils in schools.
What if Idaho sends a message to the rest of the country that we value and respect everyone, especially women, minorities, veterans and the disabled — those denigrated and disrespected by the Republican candidate for president. Idahoans stand for fairness, civility, kindness and compassion. Let go of your ties to the Republican Party for this election and vote for Hillary Clinton and for all the other Democratic nominees. Voting along party lines just to vote for the party does not make sense in this election. Barbara A. Elliott, Boise Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms
Las Vegas police confirmed the man they believe to be responsible for killing more than 58 people is Stephen Paddock. Stephen Paddock is a 64-year-old white male. - Paddock was not known to the federal authorities, but was known to local law enforcement. This is the first unconfirmed picture of Stephen Paddock. - He lived in Mesquite, Nevada with Marilou Danley on Babbling Brook Ct. NBC reporting #LasVegas shooter as Stephen C Paddock who looks to be living at this address with Marilou Danley who Police are searching for pic.twitter. 1FQMhDBC— Vincent McAviney (@Vinny_LBC) October 2, 2017 - Police said that Ms Danley was seen sitting with the suspected shooter in a car before the incident and they are searching for her. She is described as an Asian female who is 411". - He was found on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Casino. Police said he had numerous weapons with him. - Police believe he killed himself in a hotel room before they found him. Marilou Danley who #LasVegas police are searching for in connection to the #mandalaybay shooting has previously been to events at hotel: pic.twitter. 0— Vincent McAviney (@Vinny_LBC) October 2, 2017 - Police believe this was a "lone wolf" attack and he was the only shooter. Over 58 people died and more than 500 were injured after a gunman opened fire at the Route 91 Harvest country music festival which was taking place across the road from Mandalay Bay on the famous Las Vegas Strip. This makes it the biggest mass shooting in US history.
North Korea must denuclearise the peninsula amid World War 3 scares, Counsellor to the President, Kellyanne Conway has warned. Speaking to Fox News, Donald Trump’s top aide said: Well the President’s position, our position on North Korea has never changed. Ms Conway added that the United States is very happy to see a more unified effort against Kim Jong-un’s regime. North Korea news: Trump will continue to apply She said: North Korea must denuclearise the peninsula region and we’re very happy that there seems to be a more unified international effort in this regard, in that pursuit. You see the United Nations resolution on December 22, very recently, you see the previous resolutions unanimously in support of the United States position with respect to North Korea." Mr Trump’s aide added that North Korea is a threat to the entire world, not just the US. She said: This is key because this President has made clear from the beginning and constantly throughout the first year of his presidency that a nuclearised North Korea is not just a danger and a threat to America, and to any freedom and democracy loving people, but to the entire world and the world is responding. It comes after President Trump threatened North Korea with his "much bigger and more powerful" nuclear button following menacing undertones in Kim Jong-uns speech on New Years Day. Mr Trump wrote on Twitter: "North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times. " Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger &amp; more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" North Korea has been fanning fears of World War 3 by refusing to heed calls for denuclearisation – with leader Kim engaging President Trump in an escalating war of words. But Kim appeared to offer an olive branch to neighbouring South Korea – a close US ally – by suggesting North Korea could use the 2018 Winter Olympics to organise diplomatic talks with Seoul to defuse tensions with the international community.
The FBI just blew the Hillary Clinton case wide open she could literally be going to jail. FBI just dropped could put her in the category of bonafide traitor. FBI uncovered Russian bribery plot before Obama administration approved controversial n-u-c-l-e-a-r deal with Moscow. Senate Judiciary opens probe into Obama-era Russian uranium bribery… PAPER: Stunning cover-up
Jemele Hill, the outspoken host of ESPN’s 6:00 p.m. SportsCenter, called President Donald Trump a white supremacist on Twitter. The White House called Hill’s comments a fireable offense. Hill and Smith previously co-hosted Numbers Never Lie and His &amp; Hers before they were promoted to the flagship show. Hill Called Trump a ‘White Supremacist’ After Posting About Kid Rock Hill’s tweet about Trump was posted late on September 11 after she retweeted a The Hill article about musician Kid Rock, who has been teasing a run for Michigan Senator after launching KidRockforSenate.com in July. Pretty funny how scared I have them all and their only agenda is to try and label people / me racist who do not agree or cower to them, Rock wrote. Hill also tweeted other messages about Trump. He is unqualified and unfit to be president. And if he were not white, he never would have been elected. He has surrounded himself with white supremacists — no they are not alt right — and you want me to believe he isn’t a white supremacist? His rise is a direct result of white supremacy. I couldn’t, because I cared about more than just myself, she wrote. We have addressed this with Jemele and she recognizes her actions were inappropriate. Hill has continued to Tweet, but on other subjects. In January 2016, ESPN issued a memo to employees to avoid making political comments. Curt Schilling was famously fired in April 2016 for an offensive post about transgender people. Conservatives point to Schilling’s firing and Caitlyn Jenner receiving the Arthur Ashe courage award in 2015 as examples. And then all of a sudden it’s glowing praise. Hill made similar comments in an interview with Newsday. Over time, she began appearing on ESPN TV shows, including First Take, Outside the Lines and others. A short time after she was hired, she spoke with the Columbia Journalism Review about being a young, black female journalist and the reaction you get when you write about race. That’s not the overwhelming reason, mind you. They continued hosting the show until they moved to SportsCenter. The fact that they asked us to do this, that’s a key part of it. We were about a year out from our contract being up, Hill said in January. And what were things that were needed to improve that? And the way it just kind of happened caught us by surprise. The Detroit native compared rooting for the Boston Celtics instead of the Pistons to saying Hitler was a victim. Hill was suspended for a week and the statement was taken out of her column. In an interview with Deadspin, Hill shrugged it off. A couple years ago, I was visiting the Poynter Institute, one of the foremost journalism think tanks in the country, and I sat in on a session taught by one of my favorite columnist and people, the Washington Post’s Sally Jenkins.
Warwickshire Police believe the suspect may have been wearing a wig in this picture Linda Gibbs died on 31 August aged 70. She was told her cancer diagnosis was terminal on 14 July. Hours after receiving the news, she was called by someone claiming to be from her telephone provider who told her a direct debit payment had failed. She gave them her bank details and PIN number and was told someone would come and collect her card to sort the payment out. A woman arrived at her home in Nuneaton and collected the card, which was then used to buy thousands of pounds worth of jewellery. Warwickshire Police called the criminals heartless Warwickshire Police have released photographs of a woman they want to interview in connection with the investigation, who, they say, may have been wearing a wig at the time the pictures were taken. Mrs Gibbs daughter, Anita Foxley, said: "My mum was very vulnerable after being told she had terminal cancer and to be targeted by these people is unforgivable. The extra stress this put on her life in her last days was unbearable. " she must have been at the lowest point that shes ever been at. Obviously they must have been very convincing, and mum must have trusted them," she added. " I would really like to see justice served on the woman who came to my mums door that day." Kevin Knight, of Warwickshire Police, said: "These types of heartless criminals regularly prey on the most vulnerable members of the community and in this case they have targeted someone who had just received the most awful news. " You can only imagine the impact this had on the final weeks of Mrs Gibbs life and the anger it continues to cause her family. We believe the woman in these photos has information that will be vital to our enquiries. Please bear in mind that she might be wearing a wig," he added.
If we measured political ability by a person’s capacity to say laughable talking points with a straight face, Susan Rice has to be the politician of the century. Susan Rice has a unique gift to make the news every time she speaks. Instead of looking in the mirror and considering her ill-advised statements about the cause of terrorism and a deserter’s supposedly meritorious record, this time she blames the backlash on the intersection of race and gender. In short, she claims she is being attacked because she is a black woman. In reality, she is being attacked because she is a ridiculous partisan hack, whose disconnect from basic facts and ability to repeat the most ridiculous spin and talking points from the Obama administration is as ridiculous as it is stunning. If we measured political ability by a person’s capacity to say laughable talking points with a straight face, Susan Rice has to be the politician of the century. She first made the news when she commented on the 2012 attacks in Libya that killed the US ambassador and 3 other Americans. Hillary Clinton’s State Department emails (the ones that weren’t illegally deleted of course), revealed that she told multiple people almost immediately that the events in Libya were terrorist attacks. But in public, Susan Rice went on five Sunday talk shows to claim they attacked in response to a video even though it was plainly obvious to anybody watching that there was more to the attack than a video. The next time she resurfaced she tried to defend Bowe Bergdahl, an army soldier captured by the Taliban. When the Obama administration secured his release Susan Rice again went on morning talk shows. This time she said he served with  honor and distinction. But this was completely outrageous because most of his comrades said he defected to the enemy and the army court martialed him for desertion. The trade also sparked a significant debate over the wisdom in trading one (subpar) soldier for five terrorists. Her name has entered the conversation in regards to the so-called Russian hacking of the election. Among all of the arguing, Susan Rice admitted to being one of the individuals that unmasked figures in the Trump campaign. Unlike the hysteria over little more than innuendo linking the Trump campaign with Russia, unmasking can be a serious crime. As a result she has been the subject of intense disagreement and scrutiny. Despite regularly sticking her foot in her mouth and repeating talking points that have tenuous connections to reality, she now blames much of the backlash on racism and sexism. An independent prosecutor will investigate the matter and all related issues. Until then, I’m marveling at the utter ineptness of Susan Rice. She supplies so many howling and guffaw inducing talking points but does it with such sincerity and a straight face that I almost wish she would be in the news every day. To have a partisan hack that is willing to spy on their political enemies and fall on their sword must be important for Obama and Clinton. But she also supplies her own daggers every time she speaks.
Original report: Web hosting company GoDaddy is booting the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, over an inflammatory post about the woman killed in the deadly car attack on people protesting a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. According to CBS News, GoDaddy announced the move after receiving complaints about an article on the site that made derogatory comments about Charlottesville victim Heather Heyers appearance and views. " We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service," GoDaddy tweeted from its verified account. We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service. — GoDaddy (@GoDaddy) August 14, 2017 Hours later, a post appeared on the Daily Stormer claiming that hacking group Anonymous had taken control of the site and would shut it down within 24 hours. " THIS SITE IS NOW UNDER THE CONTROL OF ANONYMOUS," the post read. " WE HAVE TAKEN THIS SITE IN THE NAME OF HEATHER HEYER A VICTIM OF WHITE SUPREMACIST TERRORISM." Anonymous tweeted that it had "no confirmation" that its hackers were involved and suggested that the Daily Stormer was behind the stunt. We have no confirmation that "Anonymous" is involved yet. Wonder if they are having issues finding a new host. 5p — Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 Anonymous later added, "To be clear, were saying they werent hacked. This is DS lying in an attempt to play victim to their audience later." To be clear, were saying they werent hacked. This is DS lying in an attempt to play victim to their audience later. — Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 © 2018 Cox Media Group.
A Muslim man was shocked to have his request for a judge to acknowledge Sharia law denied in court. Nadir Ibrahim Ombabi, a Minnesota taxi driver, was killed in a car accident. Following his passing, legal proceedings began to determine a settlement for his spouse or surviving family. A wrongful death suit was filed, in which Ombabis estate was rewarded $183,0 to go to his wife. Ombabis brother, Hasameldin Ibrahim Imbabi, subsequently disputed the ruling on the grounds that the money should be distributed to his family in accordance with Sharia law. One of the specifics of that argument was that the men should receive "twice the share of the female." "[ The brother] further asserts that the principles of the private international law should have been applied from the beginning since the law of all parties (the decedent, his widow and decedent[‘s] next of kin) is the Islamic Law and they are all Muslims and follow the specifics of the religion. … [ The brother’s] main assertion of error appears to be that the district court should have applied Sudanese Islamic law instead of Minnesota law when distributing the wrongful-death settlement proceeds…. [ He] also asserts that the district court erred by refusing to honor a legal declaration issued by the Sudanese Family Court in Khartoum regarding distribution of the wrongful-death settlement proceeds under Sudanese Islamic law," court documents stated, the Washington Post reported. The judge, however, denied the mans argument due to lack of legal representation and specious arguments. Many reader applauded the judges decision to reject Sharia law. " Muslim man has no grounds to stand on with that, Sharia Law has NO place in this country . these people need to get it through their thick skull that the US Constitution which is law of our land and Sharia Law does not and cannot co-exist in our land!" one Newsiosity reader commented on the sites Facebook page. " If you want to immigrate here and live here then follow our laws and rules. " When in Rome Do as the Romans Do " You are in our country . respect the laws here or go back to your original country. This an example of what is totally wrong with this country now Everyone who comes here wants America to accommodate them and expect us to change .
SANTA MARIA, Calif. - California is now officially a "sanctuary state" after Governor Brown signed controversial State Senate Bill 54 which limits local law enforcement cooperation with federal immigration authorities. SB 54, called the California Values Act, was hard fought in the state legislature on its way to the Governors desk over the issue of public safety versus protecting people living in California illegally. SB 54 protects jail inmates from being held in custody until immigration agents can come and pick them up regardless of their immigration status. The California State Sheriffs Association strongly opposed SB 54 saying, among other things, it protects so-called non-violent offenders including gang members, drug dealers and sex offenders from deportation. SB 54 also protects illegal immigrants from deportation while at public schools, hospitals and courts. " Today I am very pleased to announce the governor of the great State of California, Governor Jerry Brown, signed Senate Bill 54, the California Values Act", said Democrat Senator Kevin De Leon of Los Angeles who introduced SB 54 earlier this year in response to the Trump Administrations immigration policies, "our President is pursuing biased law enforcement policies based on the principles of white supremacy." In a written statement after signing SB 54 into law Thursday, Governor Brown said the California Values Act "does not prevent or prohibit ICE or the Department of Homeland Security from doing their own work in any way. This protects public safety and ensures that hard working people who contribute to the state are respected." The Trump Administration has been threatening to withhold federal funds from states that declare themselves as sanctuaries. The California Values Act takes effect January 1, 2018.
* [ / /ct-wisconsin-voters-pro-trump-america-20170207-story.html Rural Wisconsin voters await economic revival in a part of now pro-Trump America]. This article is from the Chicago Tribune. Published on February 7, 2017 and written by Claire Galofaro of the Associated Press, it is based on interviews with former Obama voters who then voted for Trump in [[Crawford County, Wisconsin]].([[Crawford County, Wisconsin|Crawford County]] is one of twenty-three [[Pivot Counties in Wisconsin]].) * [ / /ct-wisconsin-voters-pro-trump-america-20170207-story.html Rural Wisconsin voters await economic revival in a part of now pro-Trump America]. This article is from the Chicago Tribune. Published on February 7, 2017 and written by Claire Galofaro of the Associated Press, it is based on interviews with former Obama voters who then voted for Trump in [[Crawford County, Wisconsin]].([[Crawford County, Wisconsin|Crawford County]] is one of twenty-three [[Pivot Counties in Wisconsin]].) Garafola also wrote [ How a community changed by refugees came to embrace Trump] for the Associated Press on April 19, 2017 about [[Androscoggin County, Maine]] and [ Trump won places drowning in despair. on August 19, 2017 about voters in [[Grays Harbor County, Washington]]. * [ /story/2017/02/donald-trump-support-popularity-vigo-county-214774 Im Still All Trumped Up]. Politico Magazine; February 13, 2017; author Adam Wren. This article is about [[Vigo County, Indiana|Vigo County]], which is one of five [[Pivot Counties in Indiana]]. * [ /story/2017/02/donald-trump-support-popularity-vigo-county-214774 Im Still All Trumped Up]. Politico Magazine; February 13, 2017; author Adam Wren. This article is about [[Vigo County, Indiana|Vigo County]], which is one of five [[Pivot Counties in Indiana]].
Republican Candidate Mr. Trump says Mrs. Clinton wants amnesty for everybody, come on in, come on over. Hillary Clinton Mrs. Clinton said that she had helped eight million children obtain health coverage, Sept. 11 responders receive medical care and children get safer medicines. Mr. Trump said Mrs. Clinton ignored 600 requests for increased security from J. Christopher Stevens, the ambassador to Libya, and communicated only with Sidney Blumenthal. Mr. Trump accused Mrs. Clinton of being there for President Obama’s line in the sand in Syria. Mr. Trump, referring to the effect of Nafta and other free-trade agreements, said, We lost our jobs. Mr. Trump said that the United States signed a peace treaty to bring an end to the civil war in Syria. Mr. Trump admitted that he used a $916 million loss declared on his 1995 tax returns to avoid paying federal income taxes. But he refused to say how many years he paid no income tax and simultaneously claimed to have paid a tremendous amount of taxes. Mr. Trump said we have hundreds of thousands of people pouring into the United States from places like Syria, and we have no idea who they are. Mr. Trump said that growth is down to 1 percent and that taxes in the United States are the highest in the world. Since the Great Recession the gains have all gone to the top. Mr. Trump said maybe there is no hacking, in response to Mrs. Clinton’s claim that Russians are engaged in an unprecedented effort to influence the election — on Mr. Trump’s behalf. Mr. Trump said that Mrs. Clinton wants to go to a single-payer plan like the health care system in Canada. Mr. Trump said many people saw bombs all over the apartment of a couple who committed the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif. Mrs. Clinton deleted 33,0 emails from her private server even after she got a subpoena from Congress. Mr. Trump said that a Clinton associate pushed the birther notion against Obama in 2008. Mrs. Clinton said there was no evidence her email has been hacked by a foreign power. Former President Bill Clinton was impeached, lost his law license and paid an $850,0 fine to Paula Jones. Mr. Trump accused Mrs. Clinton of laughing about getting a man acquitted of raping a 12-year-old girl. When Mr. Trump was asked whether he has kissed women or groped women without consent, as he claimed on a recently released video, Mr. Trump said no, he had not. Mr. Trump said that Obamacare is leading to insurance rate increases that are astronomical. Mr. Trump said that last year, the United States had a trade deficit of $800 billion.
SEATTLE - Three brothers in their 70s and 80s have been arrested in Seattle for allegedly possessing images of child-sex abuse with police still investigating them, according to Seattle Police Department. & Detectives say it was Charles "manifestos" about Satanic rituals, kidnapping, raping and killing girls that led them to dig under sheds, searching for evidence of potential murder. What the investigation first found On Aug. 19, Seattle child sex crime detectives say they acted on a tip from a relative who arrived to clean out the garage of the brothers. At the home, detectives collected a staggering amount of child porn. They also found evidence of the sexual exploitation of young girls as well as childrens worn clothing and underwear, children’s shoes, toys and movies. Street say they always wondered about the dilapidated house and the three guarded, mysterious Emery brothers who lived there since 1962. " Ive never seen a girlfriend, a wife, a woman of any type visit that house," said Don Smith, who lives next door. None of them had ever married, none had their own children or many relationships outside their own siblings. Police arrested 82-year-old Charles Lee Emery in a Queen Anne nursing home. Eighty-year-old Thomas Edwin Emery and 78-year-old Edwin Harold Emery were arrested at their home. RELATED COVERAGE: Detectives say Charles, Thomas and Edwin sexually molested young relatives for years, and collected pictures and even childrens shoes. But detectives say it was Charles "manifestos" about Satanic rituals, kidnapping, raping and killing girls that led them to dig under sheds, searching for evidence of potential murder. Detectives say one of Charles writings was found buried and partially burned -- along with a childs hat. " Their writings express desires to kill children," said Capt. The search extended from the home in the Green Lake neighborhood to another home the brothers owned 90 miles away in Shelton. " Its very clear that these three individuals have an obsession with young female children, theyve had this obsession for most if not all of their lives, and they acted on it," said Edwards. Charging documents indicate SPD detectives questioned Edwin Emery and his relatives about child porn found on his computer in 2013, but no charges were ever filed. Now detectives are hoping to identify the children in the photos and they hope to find victims who may have been molested decades ago and never came forward. The new details Seattle police and court documents revealed leave them stunned. For decades, neighbors didnt think much about the three brothers whove lived there for 55 years. I just thought they were harmless weird old guys, said Julie Vandenberg, who lives directly across the street. Neighbors saw the investigators in hazardous materials suits and police bring out box after box of evidence on Friday and Saturday. I didn’t know what to think, said Smith, who watched investigators work late into the night Friday from his home next door. It is sickening, its really sickening, Vandenberg said. Something happened to little children here - it sounds like little girls, and thats horrific. Neighbors say many young children live on the block. Neighbor Don Smith said he was surprised the allegations were kept quiet for so long. " I mean, to be next door to these guys for all these years, if. If theyre going out every day and doing something like that, I was like, wow. This is too much" © 2018 Cox Media Group.
Trump had just married Melania when the recording was made in 2005 A couple of weeks ago, after the row over Trump "fat-shaming" Alicia Machado, I suggested the Republican candidate lay off our weight. Warning: This article contains some graphic language Now, and I can hardly believe Im having to write this, I suggest he lay off our vaginas. The day after a video tape emerged in which he suggested he could have any woman he wants because hes a star and so could just "grab them by the pussy", Mr Trump is in a whole ocean of hot political water. Enough, quite possibly, to sink any chance he had of winning the White House. Why this tape - and not the myriad other controversies that have dogged him in recent weeks? There is something particularly sexist, Id say abusive, about this recording. Read this excerpt: "When youre a star, they let you do it. Whatever you want," the interviewer says. " Grab em by the pussy, you can do anything," Trump replies." Its the way Mr Trump reveals that he sees women as a piece of sexual meat, something he wants, grabs, discards that is so damning. Lay off a womans size, Trump Is the Trump campaign done for? The role of gender in the debate Surveys (US government and UN) suggest one in five American women are the victim of rape or attempted rape and a staggering 83% of girls suffer sexual harassment at school. There is a violence in the phrases "grab em by the pussy" and "you can do anything" that any victim of abuse would recognise and that most women would find sickening. To dismiss the tape as mere "locker room banter" and imply that the people who are offended are making an unnecessary fuss, or to say, as he did in his bizarre overnight apology tape, that this is just a distraction, compounds his problem. Trump has offended many groups of people before But this tape doesnt just offend women, judging from the reaction in the Republican party - it has offended a lot of men too. Whether those men will now withdraw their endorsements of him is yet to be seen. His comments about Muslims and Mexicans have arguably been equally grotesque and many, including some Republicans, have suggested they disqualified him for the presidency too. Not everyone in America, however, knows a Muslim or a Mexican. Most people, and most voters, do have wives, mothers, sisters or daughters and thats why this tape touches a nerve, with both sexes, in a way his previous remarks havent. Powerful men using their position to get sex is nothing new, even in the White House. Today some of Trumps supporters are making the case that anyone who voted for Bill Clinton has no right to be offended by Donald Trump. Will the subject of Bill Clintons infidelities now come up at Sundays debate? Ive been critical of Mr Clintons treatment of women, and of Mrs Clintons role in shielding him, but those supporters are missing the point. In 2016, dont we all want more from our leaders than another man who feels getting sex from whoever they want, whenever they want is simply one of the perks of power? How Mr Trump manages the fallout from this isnt clear. Indeed, he has bragged about never doing so. Yet overnight he did release a video statement in which he said: "I said it, I was wrong, and I apologise." In the tape he then goes on to attack both Clintons records. In the past Mr Trump has not been able to resist lashing out when hes under attack. So, whatever his advisers may caution, I suspect we will see more of that in St Louis on Sunday night.
HUNTINGTON BEACH (FOX 11 / CNS) - New video has emerged showing what happened before the shooting took place that left a man dead in Huntington Beach on Friday. A Huntington Beach police officer fatally shot a suspect outside a 7-Eleven store Friday in a confrontation that was caught on video and posted online. WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS GRAPHIC IMAGES AND CONTENT The shooting occurred about 9:30 a.m. outside the store at 6012 Edinger Ave., where the suspect got into a scuffle with the officer just before the shooting, according to a Huntington Beach Police Department spokeswoman. The suspect later died at a hospital, police said. It happened fast, and like most everything these days, was captured on cell phone video by a bystander. A Huntington Beach Police Officer, in a violent struggle with a man outside a 7-11. The man appears to be a transient, and what spurred their initial interaction is still not clear. After a few seconds of fighting.the two pull away, the man appears to have something in his hand. The officer, a few feet away, takes aim with his handgun and fires, once.twice.7 times. The suspect at first takes the shots standing up, then crumbles to the ground. Its quite graphic, quite real, and quite dramatic. In fact, we dont even want to show it on TV its that violent. The suspect would later die at a hospital and per protocol, the Orange County Sheriff is taking over the investigation. What made this all the more scary was that diagonally across the street is Marina High School. Police ordered it locked down and immediately cell phones lit up with texts and emails between parents, students, and administrators. There was confusion and near panic among some over reports that there was an active shooter on campus, which there was not. Well, it appears that the shooting happened adjacent to a shopping center called Marina Village. On campus theres an area referred to as The Village", so reports of a shooting in The Village" or at "The Village led to understandable confusion. Yet one of the benefits of social media and that fact that every student has a cell phone, is that the accurate story got out there quickly and students and parents worst fears were calmed within minutes. Cell phone video of the shooting was posted on Twitter, showing the officer firing five shots at the suspect, who stumbles, collapses against a wall of the convenience store, then crumples to the ground.
As previously reported, embattled Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein is the subject of a devastating expose detailing decades of sexual harassment. Donald Trump Jr. trolled Hillary Clinton on Saturday in a viral tweet. Weird, Hillary has been really quiet about Harvey Weinstein. You would think she would be all Over this. # Weird, Hillary has been really quiet about Harvey Weinstein. You would think she would be all Over this. # Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 7, 2017 But Don Jr. wasn’t finished yet. Donald Trump Jr. challenged sometime comedian Jimmy Kimmel to share his thoughts on liberal icon and sexual predator Harvey Weinstein.
You know its an election year when the President of the United States is tweeting about the NFLs referee apocalypse. NFL fans on both sides of the aisle hope the refs lockout is settled soon. -bo - Barack Obama (@BarackObama) September 25, 2012 Obamas Twitter feed then pointed to a recent telephone interview with WTAM-AM in Cleveland, in which the POTUS pined for the return of locked-out officals. " But one thing I got to say, though, is it just me or do we have to get our regular refs back?" Obama asked WTAMs Bill Willis ( via the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel). " I cant get involved with it, but Im just expressing my point of view as a sports fan." In a potentially related story, Mitt Romney has dropped Paul Ryan as his running mate in favor of Ed Hochuli.
Donald J. Trump Mr. Trump said that health insurance premiums were going up 60, 70, 80 percent, and next year, they’re going to go up over 100 percent. Tens of thousands of Syrian refugees who are definitely ISIS-aligned — we now have them in our country. Mr. Trump said a cease-fire agreement between the United States and Russia allowed Russia to control more territory in Syria, because the Russians outplayed the United States. On projections that Mr. Trump’s proposals would raise the national debt, he said that they’re wrong because I’m going to create tremendous jobs. Mr. Trump criticized the Obama administration’s support of publicizing in advance the Iraqi-led attack on Mosul, which just began. Mr. Trump said the nuclear deal with Iran will absolutely let it obtain nuclear weapons. Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Trump tweeted that the Emmy’s were rigged when he did not win for The Apprentice. Regarding Mrs. Clinton’s private email server, Mr. Trump said that she’s guilty of a very, very serious crime. Mr. Trump asserted that $6 billion went missing from the State Department while Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state. Mrs. Clinton said that when her husband, Bill Clinton, was president, the fiscal position of the federal government improved: A $300 billion budget deficit turned into a $200 billion surplus, she said. And, she added, we were actually on the path to eliminating the national debt. Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Trump didn’t even raise the issue of the border wall with the Mexican president, since he choked. Mr. Trump said Mrs. Clinton deleted 33,0 of her private emails after she got a subpoena. When asked about the many women who have come forward to allege they were kissed or groped by Mr. Trump without their consent, Mr. Trump said the stories were largely debunked. Mr. Trump suggested that South Korea and Japan do not pay any of the costs of maintaining American military bases on their territory. Mrs. Clinton said her fiscal plan doesn’t add a penny to the debt. Mrs. Clinton said that Mr. Trump’s economic plan might lose 3.5 million jobs while giving tax cuts to people at the very top. People are going to pour in from Syria — she wants 550 percent more than Barack Obama. Mrs. Clinton said that Mr. Trump is willing to spout the Putin line and get help from him in the election. Mr. Trump said our country has no idea if the Russians are responsible for the emails published by WikiLeaks. Mr. Trump said that Mrs. Clinton’s support for abortion rights would allow a fetus to be ripped from a woman’s womb in the ninth month of pregnancy, in some cases just a few days before a baby is born. Mr. Trump said Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was forced to apologize for negative comments about him. Mrs. Clinton said the Citizens United decision by the Supreme Court allowed dark money to stream into politics.
NEW YORK (KGUN9-TV) - Arizona Congressman Raul Grijalva has been released from police custody following his arrest in New York Tuesday. The Tucson area legislator was part of a group sitting in the street in front of Trump Tower. He was involved in a demonstration protesting President Donald Trumps plans to end DACA; the order from then-President Obama protecting from deportation undocumented people who were brought to the U.S. when they were too young to have decided on their own to come to this country. Grijalva was charged with two counts of disorderly conduct-one for disrupting traffic, one for refusing to disperse. A public information officer for New York Police says the Congressman was fingerprinted and given paperwork instructing him to appear before a judge at a future date. Grijalva has been a vocal critic of President Trump and his policies, and a strong advocate for protecting DACA recipients from deportation.
Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Raleigh, North Carolina. ( Getty) Heading into Election Day 2016, the Donald Trump campaign has a very specific path to 270 Electoral College votes. In order to win the election, Trump must win nearly every single battleground state and retain every state that Mitt Romney won in 2012 as well. Plus, there are a few states that Trump is hoping to flip from blue to red. So what exactly are the states that Trump needs to win if he hopes to become president? First, there are 21 states that Donald Trump will win essentially by default. These are the states that traditionally always vote for the Republican candidate, and they add up to 163 Electoral College votes. If Hillary Clinton were to somewhat win in just one of these states, it would be a complete shock. The states are: Alabama Alaska Arkansas Idaho Indiana Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska North Dakota Oklahoma South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah West Virginia Wyoming Then there are two states that usually vote for the Republican candidate but where Hillary Clinton has actually been somewhat close in the polls. Still, it seems likely that these states will stay red as they have been for a long time, but it’s necessary for Trump to defend himself here if he wants to win the election. Those states are: Arizona Georgia If we add these two states to Donald Trump’s column, plus all the traditionally red states, the Republican nominee is now at 190 Electoral College votes. He needs 80 more votes to become president. What remains are six battleground states that could realistically be won by either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. Those battlegrounds are: Florida Iowa Maine’s 2nd Congressional District Nevada New Hampshire North Carolina Ohio All of these states add up to 80 Electoral College votes, meaning that if Trump wins all of the states we have mentioned so far, he hits 270 electors exactly, and he becomes the next president of the United States. The state that Donald Trump absolutely must win in order to be elected president is Florida. Technically Trump can win without it, but the path would become so narrow as a result that it’s almost impossible to imagine Hillary Clinton not winning if she turns Florida blue. If Florida is called for Hillary Clinton on the evening of November 8th, you can essentially consider this the announcement that Hillary Clinton has won the presidency. Florida is worth 29 Electoral College votes. Really, though, Trump does not have much wiggle room, and so basically all of the six battleground states – plus one battleground district – are must wins for him. Because the aforementioned path is so narrow, the Trump campaign is also looking at a fourth category, states that are leaning towards Hillary Clinton and that traditionally vote blue but that Trump hopes he can turn red. Winning any one of these would dramatically increase his odds of victory, as they would give him some room to lose another battleground state but still win the election. Winning any of them would also start eating into Hillary Clinton’s path rather than simply forging Donald Trump’s. Those blue states, accompanied by the lead Hillary Clinton currently has in the polls according to Real Clear Politics, are: Colorado (Clinton +3) Michigan (Clinton +5) Minnesota (Clinton +6.4) Pennsylvania (Clinton +2.8) Virginia (Clinton +4.3) Wisconsin (Clinton +6.5) To summarize, with each of the battlegrounds (Florida, Iowa, Maine’s 2nd Congressional District, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina and Ohio) losing one means Trump must make up for it by winning a combination of blue states (Colorado, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin) . If Trump loses a single battleground but does not compensate for it with a victory in a blue state, Hillary Clinton wins the election. And if Trump loses two battleground states, that will be almost impossible to recover from. With that in mind, here are a few scenarios, albeit somewhat unlikely scenarios, where Trump could recover from the loss in a battleground state.
A "Muslim migrant" beats up a boy on crutches in a video posted to a site in the Netherlands. On 29 November 2017, United States President Donald Trump retweeted three videos from Jayden Fransen, the deputy leader of the far-right anti-Islam organization Britain First who was found guilty of religiously aggravated harassment in November 2016. As this group has a penchant for sharing out-of-context, misleading, and false information, it wasn’t surprising that at least one of these videos, which purportedly shows violent acts committed by Muslims, had a misleading caption : Although the video is frequently accompanied by the caption Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches, there is no evidence to support this assertion, which in fact came, like so many other unfortunate assumptions, from its comment section. This video was first posted to the web site Dumpert.nl, a popular video portal in the Netherlands, in May 2017. Although the original posting largely focuses on the act of hitting a person on crutches, and it was not shared with any claims about the attacker’s religion, some people on the comment section naturally — and baselessly — assumed that the perpetrator was Muslim. As the video was reposted to other web sites, the unfounded claim that the attacker was a Muslim migrant followed it. Shortly after this video was posted to Dumpert.nl, Dutch police officers were able to locate the attacker and arrest him. A news report from the Telegraaf identified him as a 16-year-old boy from Monnickendam. The report made no mention of the boy’s religion. Further, when this months-old video was brought back into the spotlight in November 2017 thanks to a retweet from President Trump, Dumpert.nl posted a short article that mocked Trump for sharing the video: (By the way, fake news! Maar leuk geprobeerd Trumpie) (By the way, fake news! Perpetrator was not a Muslim and not an immigrant, but nice try Trumpie) Geenstijl, the web site that operates Dumpert, also stated that the attacker in the video was not a Muslim: Moreover, the perpetrator was not a Muslim, let alone a migrant, but simply a Dutchman. The official Twitter account of the Public Prosecution Service of North Holland also disputed the claim that the attacker in this video was a Muslim migrant. In a message posted on 29 November 2017, they explained that the video showed a May 2017 quarrel between two minors. The attacker, who was born in the Netherlands, was placed in the HALT Program, an alternative settlement for young first time offenders: A video has been shared on twitter in which an argument between two underage boys can be seen. This incident took place in May of this year. The public prosecution service Noord-Holland has studied the file submitted by the police. ( 1/2) The suspect, who was born and raised in the Netherlands, received a HALT settlement ( 62MNOFvug). 2/2) The Netherlands Embassy in the United States also took to Twitter to tell to President Trump that facts do matter and that the attacker in the video was not a Muslim migrant: . The perpetrator of the violent act in this video was born and raised in the Netherlands. He received and completed his sentence under Dutch law.
Photo Credit: Twitter @DisneyMoose and Facebook Tikiman Pages UPDATE: 09/12/17 This morning Walt Disney World opened its gates to all four theme parks to guests. Even though the parks looked immaculate, several attractions were closed today (or delayed) due to debris caused by Hurricane Irma. We walked around Magic Kingdom to see if we could identify the causes behind these delays. Walt Disney World Railroad has trees down across the tracks. Tom Sawyer Island is also currently closed due to Hurricane Irma’s after effects. Jungle Cruise has also been reported as needing at least a week to remove the debris before it can be operational. ********************************************************* Hurricane Irma passed over Walt Disney World last night and has since turned into a Tropical Storm. Florida curfew remains in effect until 6pm today for Osceola and Orange counties. Approximately 300,0 are without power in Orange Country alone. Luckily we have not heard of any of the Walt Disney World Resorts losing power overnight. It appears they were carrying linemen to EPCOT to help get the power back on. Let’s take a look at photos from the different resorts this morning post-Hurricane Irma. Please be patient as some pictures take a bit to load. Tree down @WaltDisneyWorld #caribbeanbeachresort . 6It8ud — mike feltner (@MikeyzDead) September 11, 2017 — mike feltner (@MikeyzDead) September 11, 2017 Caribbean Beach has some tree damage The aftermath of #HurricaneIrma, here at Disney’s Port Orleans French Quarter. From tiki mans pageOasis pool at the Polynesian pic.twitter.com/1s6EMOxtdb — Ed @ Baylakes edge (@DisneyMoose) September 11, 2017 Watching this tree fall last night at our hotel at Disney. FInally seeing itthis morning, lucky it went the other way! Theme Parks &amp; Beyond (@ParksandBeyond) September 11, 2017 All-Star Music Resort has seen its share of tree debris as well. We will continue to update this page as we receive additional information on the state of the Walt Disney World Resort this morning. Are you ready to start planning your amazing Disney vacation? Our friends at MickeyTravels (designated with Platinum Earmarked status by Disney) can help! Click Here for your FREE No Obligation Quote from one of their Authorized Disney Vacation Planners. There are still fantastic 2017 Summer and Fall packages to be had. Click here or send an email for a FREE, no obligation quote with an Authorized Disney Vacation Planner. Want more help planning your next Disney vacation? As an Authorized Disney Vacation Planner, my goal is to help you plan the Magic your way. I create customized itineraries, book advanced dining and FastPass+ reservations, monitor for discounts for your vacation, and much much more! And did I mention that my services are FREE? Get in touch toll-free at 1-800-454-4501, via email at mickeytravelssarah@gmail.com or follow along on Facebook. Thank you for visiting Chip and Co - Your home for the best in Disney News!
Following a deadly shooting in Las Vegas that has left more than 50 people dead and over 200 injured, celebrities are taking to social media to express their grief. He said officers responded and the suspect was dead. Jason Aldean was performing as the shooting began. Tonight has been beyond horrific," he captioned a picture of the city. A post shared by Jason Aldean (@jasonaldean) on Jake Owen, who was slated to perform ahead of Aldean Sunday called the event "unimaginable." " I witnessed the most unimaginable event tonight. Spent I dont know how long on the floor of a trailer behind the stage. One year ago we played Route 91 on Sunday night. Our prayers are with all the first responders, artists, crew and mostly the country fans. Praying for everyone at #HarvestFestival. There are no words right now that suffice.— Charles Kelley of Lady Antebellum tweeted that he was, "Praying 4 everyone in the country community &amp; everyone at the scene. My heart is sick over the news in Las Vegas. And so sorry for the fans who came to sing and dance and be free and happy. thinking of everyone there &amp; my friend @Jason_Aldean.— Praying for all the innocent victims and their families in Las Vegas - Céline xx. # Praying for everyones safety," she tweeted. My thoughts are with the victims and their families. To be in Vegas while this is happening, brings a pain to my heart. Prayers up— Trey Songz (@TreySongz) October 2, 2017 Ne-Yo, who is from Las Vegas, called the news "crazy" and hoped people could "stay safe." Hearing crazy news coming out of my hometown. NE-YO (@NeYoCompound) October 2, 2017 Kendra Wilkinson, a co-host of a show at Paris Las Vegas, said she was "absolutely sick to my stomach." No words, just absolutely sick to my stomach. 😔— Kendra Wilkinson (@KendraWilkinson) October 2, 2017 A befuddled Paris Hilton asked, "What is our world coming to!" I cant believe what just happened in Las Vegas! 😭 My prayers go out to the victims &amp; their families. 🙏— Paris Hilton (@ParisHilton) October 2, 2017 Ruby Rose expressed her deepest condolences. " 💔 Victims and their families are in our thoughts and prayers. This is absolutely horrific and devastating.— Holly Marie Combs (@H_Combs) October 2, 2017 Assault rifles were on Sheryl Crows mind. "
Share She’s young, attractive, articulate, conservative, and black! Candace Owens is surely the worst nightmare of the hard-Left wing of the Democrat party. For decades, those folks have taken the black vote for granted. Now blacks are waking up, and that could spell doom for Democrats — hence their interest in Latino-Americans, especially illegal immigrants. In the 2-minute video above, hear Candace’s advice and warning for Latinos — namely, don’t be scammed by Democrats the way that America’s blacks have been. Check out her longer speech too (below) given to the Conservative College Student Action Summit in January, 2018. She explains clearly how Democrats are eyeing illegal immigrants as the most promising new voting livestock for their Big-Government-Dependency Plantation. Owens’ message isn’t new, but her youth and style makes her among the best to reach America’s young people, no matter what identity group the Democrats assign them to. Thomas Sowell is fantastic, but he cannot reach young people the way Owens can.
A Grain of Saul is a weekly column that digs into some of the biggest issues we face as a nation and as an international community in search of reliable data, realistic solutions, and — most importantly — hope. More and more women are reporting that Harvey Weinstein harassed or sexually assaulted them. After an explosive piece in The New York Times, which cited several womens firsthand accounts of Weinsteins alleged "sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact," it appears the dam has broken. Yesterday, a piece in The New Yorker quoted nearly a dozen on the record firsthand accounts of Weinsteins harassment and sexual assault and included never-before-heard audio recordings from a New York Police Department sting operation in which Weinstein appears to admit to groping model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez. Farrow is the estranged son of Woody Allen, another Hollywood magnate accused of sexual assault. Those allegations (which Allen denies) were made by his own daughter, Ronans sister Dylan. Perhaps one of the most unfortunate reactions has been to politicize the story, as some conservative pundits have grasped onto Weinstein — a major Democratic donor Michelle Obama once publicly praised as a "wonderful human being" — as illustrative of rotten liberal America. But this isnt a uniquely Democratic problem. Our Republican president appeared to admit on tape to sexually assaulting women (and has also been photographed chumming it up with Weinstein). The point being: this isnt a partisan or even a political issue. This is — largely — an issue with men, specifically men who yield any kind of power. Its not always famous and powerful men, either: its the Catholic Church, Penn State football, orthodox Jews, professional athletes, universities, and your local retail store. In many of the cases that have made national headlines, though, wealthy men in positions of significant power have leveraged their status to pressure or force women into sexual encounters. Those women are then shamed, threatened with lawsuits and silenced if they speak out. And thats just the number of current or former employees who happened to speak to Farrow. What about the ones who were too scared to speak to a reporter? In President Trumps infamous Hollywood Access tape, television host Billy Bush laughs offthe notion that Trump could simply "grab women by the pussy" because he was a star. His supporters and advisers dismissed it as "locker room talk." Football coach Joe Paterno was let go from Penn State because of what he may or may not have known about convicted rapist Jerry Sandusky. An entire film was made about the Catholic Church spending years trying to fend off reporters who wanted to get the truth out about rampant sexual abuse by priests. People — especially men who are in positions of power — have the ability to step in and stop these stories from happening. And we cannot forget that there are male survivors of sexual assault, and they are every bit as worth protecting. Terry Crews came out on Twitter to share a story about being assaulted by another man who allegedly grabbed his penis while Crews was standing next to his wife at a Hollywood function. If Terry Crews, a wealthy, well-known man is wary of reporting his assault, imagine the obstacles that face many other sexual assault survivors. Its time for men to police our own communities, our own friends and our own family members. Its time for men to stop being passive observers of the kinds of harassment and overt sexism that are all too common in the spaces we dominate. Its time for men to stand up for the victims we see in our day-to-day lives, and to create spaces, environments, communities, teams, companies and homes where everyone feels safe and supported enough to speak truth to power. The issue of sexual assault cannot simply be a "womens issue." It cannot be a Democrat or Republican or religious or campus issue. And its about time we did something about it.
Few words could be more apposite to the tactics of the Remainers. With a straight face she said that the case had nothing to do with the EU. Almost to a man and woman the Remainers have told us that all they have been trying to do is right a wrong. They really do think you can fool all of the people all of the time. It had almost nothing to do with process and everything to do with politics. There is almost nothing the Remainers won’t do to try to keep us in. For others there’s no need even to hold a second referendum. They want simply to ignore the referendum and let Parliament put the kybosh on Brexit. Most won’t admit to this because they know that it’s toxic. But some, such as Labour MP David Lammy, are open about their contempt for the electorate. The real issue is how Parliament will vote. Be clear about what many of the Remainer MPs want: to stop Brexit. And remember that a clear majority of MPs backed Remain in June. They speak about parliamentary sovereignty (which, incidentally, can only be reestablished if we leave the EU). What they are really concerned with is finding whatever ways they can to stop Brexit. In reality they will have only one motive: stopping Brexit. Their hope and plan is that the longer any decisions are delayed the more chance there is of a change of mood. And they will do their damnedest to create that change of mood. So in parallel they will use their powers to try to ensure we have the worst possible deal so that they can re-argue the referendum debate when the deal is done. We are seeing this already with Hilary Benn, the Remainer chair of the new House of Commons select committee on Brexit, demanding that the Government reveals its negotiation stance – and so hand a huge advantage to Brussels. The will of the people has been clearly expressed. But the constitutional crisis may be the least of it. It is a truism of modern politics that voters are disengaged – that their faith in the political class and political institutions is collapsing. In France, Marine Le Pen owes her rise to a similar trend. We have a proud tradition that has always pushed extremists and rabble-rousers to the edges. If, however, our politicians were to show that they do not merely fail to connect with voters but are actively contemptuous of them, it is difficult to see how we could avoid disaster. To say there would be anger would barely come close. Not only would our political system be on the point of collapse there would be riots. And it would be a political crisis entirely of the Remainers’ making. It is not just Brexit that is imperilled by their behaviour.
Members of the Dallas Cowboys organization have been reluctant to protest the national anthem, with head coach Jason Garrett calling the anthem sacred and Dez Bryant saying he wouldn’t protest. Their attitudes mirror what’s coming from the top. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has made it clear that he opposes national anthem protests. In an interview with FOX Business, Jones said he did not think the place to express opinions is by protesting the flag. " I do not think the place to express yourself in society is as we recognize the American flag." – Jerry Jones on National Anthem protests pic.twitter.com/3JkrdMhwWy — FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) September 24, 2017 Jones’ thoughts echo that of many Americans, though as the demonstrations attest, there are many who disagree. Based on his public comments, it would be a surprise to see a display from any Cowboys on Monday night.
Former Dems Now Backing Trump: Our Countrys Going in the Wrong Direction If youve ever seen "Watters World," you know that some American adults are pretty clueless. Jesse Watters hit the streets of New York City to see what kids think about Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and the major issues facing the country. What have you heard about Hillary Clinton? " Hes blunt, and I think thats very different than anything weve ever had." " Equal rights, feminism, thats very important nowadays." " Watch the "Watters World" clip above, and let us know what you think in the comments. Clinton Aide in New WikiLeaks Email: We Need to Clean This Up.
In the space of a day, R. Kelly‘s name has catapulted back into the headlines after a shocking exposé alleged that he is leading a secret sex cult and is holding women against their will. Since the story hit the wire, the singer has, via his publicist, denied the claims and alluded to taking legal action. However, it’s quickly becoming clear that the drama isn’t going anywhere. The family of alleged hostage Jocelyn Savage held a press conference claiming that Kelly has brainwashed the 21 year old. So much so that she effectively has Stockholm Syndrome: In a twist, Jocelyn sat down with TMZ to refute the claims of her family, insisting that she has been receiving their messages but has willingly cut off communication with them. She wouldn’t, however, reveal what her current living arrangement is nor which city she resides in: Sigh. Keep it locked on That Grape Juice for the latest.
For the third debate in a row, Donald Trump expressed doubt that Russia was behind recent hacks of Democratic groups, putting him at odds not just with Hillary Clinton, but with the entire U.S. intelligence community. She has no idea whether it’s Russia, China, or anybody else, Trump said at the final presidential debate held in Las Vegas Wednesday night. Do you doubt 17 military and civilian agencies, Clinton fired back. Two weeks ago, the U.S. intelligence community announced it is confident that the Russian government directed the recent compromises of e-mails. The candidates also challenged on a number of other issues throughout the debate. On the issue of immigration, Trump said Clinton agreed with his signature proposal. Hillary Clinton fought for the wall in 2006, Trump said. I voted for border security, and there are. Clinton began speaking, before Trump interrupted, And the wall. As a senator, Clinton did vote for a bill to build 700 miles of fencing along parts of the 2,0-mile Southern border, but not a massive wall as Trump has proposed. Trump accused Clinton Wednesday night of hiring people to disrupt his allies. She’s the one, and Obama, that caused the violence, Trump said. Democratic contractors were caught on video, appearing to plan to provoke Trump supporters. But there’s no indication Clinton’s campaign paid for it or even knew about it. As in previous debates, Trump denied making some controversial comments that are immortalized on video. He said that he could not possibly have done those things to those women because they were not attractive enough for them to be assaulted, Clinton said. But in Greensboro, North Carolina, Trump told a crowd, Believe me. He also went after a disabled reporter, mocked and mimicked him on national television, Clinton said. But he did that too, at a campaign rally at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Trump said, imitating his physical handicap. On the budget, Clinton claimed that her proposals on infrastructure and education would not add a penny to the debt because she has ways to pay for all of them. Independent analysts said that’s false -- her plan add $200 billion to the debt over the next decade. Trump’s plans, they said, would add $5.3 trillion.
BERKELEY, Calif. (KCRA) — Several fights broke out during largely-peaceful protests in Berkeley Sunday afternoon when about 4,0 people converged on the city, police said. Of the people arrested during the protests, several were wearing masks while others were connected to assaults. Two men were arrested after exchanging blows. The SFGate reported they were quickly swept up by officers inside Civic Center Park. Police detained Patriot Prayer leader Joey Gibson at the protests. The SFGate reported he was handcuffed after being chased by a mob of demonstrators who took swings at him and pepper sprayed him. Police said Gibson was actually "rescued" and was not arrested or charged. The event was one of several rallies that had been called for Sunday in Berkeley, a day after a controversial freedom rally planned by Gibson in San Francisco fizzled amid throngs of counterprotesters. Hundreds of people gathered on the UC Berkeley campus around 10 a.m. Sunday. They then marched to Civic Center Park, where police had set up barricades and secured the area with bomb sniffing dogs. The march was part of the Bay Area Rally Against Hate Rally. In a statement early Sunday, the group said "we fully intend to move forward with (the Rally Against Hate)" on the campus despite calls by the university police department for people to stay away for safety reasons. However, organizer Amber Cummings canceled the protest on Friday, saying Berkeley officials and left-wing extremists made it impossible to hold the event and she would be the sole attendee. Despite the cancellation, hundreds of ring-wing protesters showed up to the park. Around 1 p.m., police reported the crowd had grown to several thousand. The skirmish was tense but ended quickly. The left-wing protesters surrounded the small number of right-wing supporters, then shouted at them and pushed them. The right-wing protesters sought protection from police and were escorted away. Before the unpermitted events, Berkeley police put into place several rules in response the protests, stating, "To ensure the peaceful expression of free speech, the City of Berkeley will be prohibiting sticks, pipes, poles and anything else that can be used for a riot at Civic Center Park." Other banned items include explosives, pepper spray, axes, dogs (except for service animals), eggs, torches and more. Police also said anything that "covers or partially covers the face and shields the wearers face from view, or partially from view, is prohibited." However, protesters with an anarchist group arrived at the park wearing masks and hoods that covered their faces. Then the group blended in with the rest of the crowd. The group pushed their way past police barricades and into Civic Center Park. They assaulted at least five people by punching and kicking them. Gibson was one of the people assaulted by the group. Police broke up the fights, using what appeared to be a smoke grenade to stop one scuffle. The three people who were attacked ran behind police lines to escape. An hour later, the crowd had diminished and many roads reopened. ---- The Associated Press contributed to this story.
The left continues to harp on unproven allegations that Donald Trump inappropriately touched women and said dirty words 11 years ago many are wondering where the outrage is about Joe Biden. For years the vice president’s inappropriate touching of women, and the invading of their personal space, has been a punchline seen as harmless. But now that the barrage of claims against Trump has reached its zenith social media has begun asking where the mainstream news sources are on creepy Uncle Joe’s unwanted encroachments. # WomenWhoVoteTrump wonder why Joe Biden gets a pass on inapropriate touching. Yikes!⤵If this was Trump, imagine the MSM headlines . # 64X3tXH — Trump the Hill (@TrumpTheHill) October 15, 2016 @CNN @andersoncooper @Maddow @MSNBC Where’s the Wall 2 Wall segment on Creepy Uncle Joe Molesting Young ? # 0g — Truth Is Power (@truthispower7) October 15, 2016 #OnHillarysTeleprompter would someone tell Joe Biden that touching women and making them uncomfortable makes you unfit for office — Robert Wilson (@rwlawoffice) October 15, 2016 Katie Pavlich – It’s Time For a National Conversation About Joe Biden’s Inappropriate Touching 5XU — Diamond Barbarian (@NoMoreElitists) October 14, 2016 No prof of Trump touching women. Watch Joe Biden Rub, Touch And Kiss His Way To Beck-Like Creepiness – YouTube 4ssgF — R. Wolfe (@WhoWolfe) October 14, 2016 Joe Biden can’t Keep his Hands off Women, a known fact! @audreyringrose) October 13, 2016 BIDEN IS A CLASS-A PERV. TALK ABOUT GROPING, HE’S ALWAYS TOUCHING WOMEN. 2mzrlb — DeplorableWhatWhat7 (@OpinionOnion7) October 13, 2016 . @frankthorp Sure let’s have that conversation 1deHu544 — Stephen Miller (@redsteeze) October 9, 2016
On the left, and among Donald Trumps conservative critics, a new debate has emerged: is the media to blame for the businessmans rise, or are Republican primary voters simply "idiots," as New York Magazines Jon Chait argued recently, and unable to recognize a con-artist when they see one? But its unserious, not to mention smug, to assume that Trump has been playing all of his Republican supporters for dupes. You dont need to worship Trump to vote for him. You dont even have to like him, or think hes always honest, because these are not the factors at the heart of Trumps appeal. Consider this from Michael Cooper, a writer, attorney, and liberal Democrat who lives in rural North Carolina. " My state representative is for Trump," he wrote in U.S. News in March. " People who havent voted in years are for Trump. Hell win the primary here on March 15 and he will carry this county in the general. This, I think, nicely sums up the core of Trumps support. Yes, there is a cult of personality around the candidate, and some of his backers do seem to think of him as a man who can do no wrong. But the breadth of Trumps support alone indicates that were dealing with more than just full-fledged #TrumpTrain devotees. Were also dealing with the people Cooper writes about, the ones who arent so enthralled with the man himself but recognize him as a change agent. And the truth is that a President Trump would, of course, be a change agent. In effect this would be something like a third party in American politics, and one in control of the White House no less -- a Party of Trump, which will find itself at odds with both stalwart conservatives like Ben Sasse and progressives like Elizabeth Warren. Occasionally hell find common cause with one side, and sometimes with the other. You could even see him putting together odd bedfellows like Sherrod Brown and Jeff Sessions to pass new restrictions on trade. Any way you look at it, he would scramble everything we know about American politics. You can argue that the changes that Trump would bring to this country would be disastrous, or that hes morally and intellectually unfit for the office. Americas many establishments -- Republican and Democrat, liberal and conservative - would all suddenly find themselves on the outs. But that shows a real misunderstanding of his appeal as a candidate. America isnt working anymore, his argument goes. Its not working for Americans, Americans know that, and all those smug elites are to blame. But step one is blowing up the system, and thats exactly what Trump is promising to do. Is it childish to want the political system to be completely upended even if the consequences might be disastrous? But in a country where a plurality of Americans think that "people like them" were better off 50 years ago, at least according to a recent Pew survey, it should also be expected. But that wouldnt be wise from a governing standpoint or, for Trumps opponents, a tactical one. That the system, for all its faults, can still be reformed, and that allowing Trump to raise hell in Washington will only make his supporters lot worse. But to just dismiss them as "idiots" is, well, stupid. It plays into his hands; it justifies the anti-elite impulse hes exploited. The consensus among all the poll-watchers and data-heads who have consistently underestimated Trump from the onset is that Hillary is all but certain to win in November.
Do you want to send a message to Washington that you arent going to buy into their racist, sexist, xenophobic, homophobic and classist nonsense for one second longer? Crooked Hillary Clinton is the worst (and biggest) loser of all time. She just can’t stop, which is so good for the Republican Party. Hillary, get on with your life and give it another try in three years! — Even better, all but one of them has to do with an emotion that has no place in this season (which is why I absolutely had to write this article for Thanksgiving weekend): Spite. Hillary Clinton is the Winston Churchill to Vladimir Putins Adolf Hitler. The exception, of course, has to be when someone has genuine Hitler-like qualities. This is where Clinton offers a quality that no politician in America can beat. While Republicans are trying to tar her with a bogus scandal connecting her to Russia (and anyone who believes Clinton did something wrong in the Uranium One deal lacks credibility on all matters political), the reality is that no candidate can be better described as Russias nemesis than Clinton. Putin has always hated Clinton because of his innate sexism, which has manifested in his policies, and she certainly didnt endear herself to him by publicly criticizing Russian corruption in 2011. I cant think of a single political figure in recent American history who has been hated as deeply, or for as long, as Hillary Clinton. Its not the chic thing to say right now, but no other explanation really makes sense. The same point can be made about the claim that she is corrupt or too establishment. To the extent that these accusations are valid, they are no more true of Clinton than of the vast majority of politicians from both parties (especially Trump). At the very least, the next Democratic presidential candidate needs to be a woman — perhaps not Clinton specifically, but certainly a woman, to offset the symbolic gut-punch of the first female candidate getting cheated by an overt misogynist. As I wrote in September, Clinton is the first defeated presidential candidate to win the popular vote without being automatically considered a frontrunner in the next election. This was no razor-thin margin of victory, but a decisive expression of the American publics preference. In terms of percentage points, her margin of victory was roughly comparable to that by which Jimmy Carter beat Gerald Ford in 1976 or George W. Bush beat John Kerry in 2004. She also held Trump to a lower percentage of the popular vote than that garnered by Mitt Romney in 2012. We can expect her to be a good president. If that is ever proved beyond a reasonable doubt, she should be given the heave-ho. Then again, Bill Clinton is also widely associated with the economic, social and foreign policy conditions of the beloved 1990s, and is greatly missed for that reason. And since few dispute that Hillary was her husbands co-president during that halcyon decade, that association can still remain a giant advantage. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, Clinton demonstrated through the 2016 Democratic National Committee platform that she would work with progressives on pursuing a policy agenda very close to their own goals. Plus — while this has been noted countless times before, it deserves repetition — she has ample experience as a U.S. senator and secretary of state in actually getting things done. That ability to get things done, by the way, is why Clinton had high approval ratings as secretary of state (usually in the 60s), even proving more popular than President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden in 2011 and 2012. Her stock may be low now, but its been low in the past (such as when she "ran" to be first lady in 1992), and it has always recovered. Arguably the big political question facing a potential Hillary 2020 campaign will be whether that bounce occurs at a fortuitous moment for her. It very well could, and wouldnt that be a giant helping of the dish best served cold? Hillary Clinton is the first First Lady in American history to be elected into national office, serving as both a Senator and as Secretary of State under Obama.
The rise of right wing nationalism comes with a massive side dose of bad faith arguments. So argues Sasha Polakow-Suransky, the author of  Go Back to Where You Came From: The Backlash Against Immigration and the Fate of Western Democracy," which examines the explosion of far-right anti-immigration politics in both Europe and the United States. People like Donald Trump and Marine Le Pen are reactionaries, Polakow-Suransky told me on "Salon Talks," but they like to hide behind liberal values like equality and secularism when launching attacks on Muslim immigrants. What these parties are doing, especially in France and Holland, is they’re telling gays, they’re telling feminists, and they’re telling Jews even, ‘We are the only ones who will protect you, he said. The threat all of you face is from Islam and Muslims and we’re the only party that can stand up to that.’ These politicians want voters to believe they’re not neo-Nazis and skinheads, he continued, but in reality, they’re weaponizing secularism to target a specific group. Polakow-Suransky, who is an Open Society Foundations fellow and has held previous positions as an op-ed editor at the New York Times and as a senior editor at Foreign Affairs, says he sees similarity in how our president reacts to a horrible terrorist attack, such as the murders in New York City on Halloween, and other crimes. You see a real gulf between the reactions to any crime perpetrated by an Islamic extremist and crimes committed by white nationalists or other groups, Polakow-Suransky said. I think that shows they’re targeting a specific group rather than talking about universal values that we all share. Watch our full "Salon Talks" conversation on Facebook. Tune into Salons live shows, "Salon Talks" and "Salon Stage," daily at noon ET / 9 a.m. PT and 4 p.m. ET / 1 p.m. PT, streaming live on Salon and on Facebook.
Donald’s been a lout for three decades, but a sycophantic news business willingly built him up until, with some help from the former Access Hollywood host (and Hillarys scary poll numbers), it decided to bring him down. Donald Trump has been hiding in plain sight. Seldom, if ever, has an American politician so aggressively acted out and imposed his unfiltered personality on the public, consequences be damned. And yet, the final weeks of the presidential campaign now are wholly centered on the medias shocking revelations about who he really is. " The other is about how complicit the media has been in covering for him until now. Trump is a thrice-married beauty pageant owner, a compulsive attention seeker and a sexual braggart. A journalists job cant be so easy as that. point that now repeatedly is being made in the campaigns final days. The unavoidable awkwardness, of course, is that so many of the details about Trumps particular sort of sleaziness, so many smoking guns, actually have been in the hands of the media all along. The more or less fatal bullet came from the NBC-owned infotainment show Access Hollywood. Reports indicate that inside NBC he was talking openly about what he knew since this past August. Still, perhaps this wasnt seen so much as news but as Trump being Trump, as hilarity. Really, does the video reveal anything about Trump that was not previously known? Bush, now losing his Today role, becomes something of a tragic figure in this. In the business of stroking celebrities, he now is reviled for stroking one. What he said theoretically in private to Bush he has said publicly over and over again with many variations — including agreeing with the description of himself as a sexual predator — to Howard Stern, for 30 years a leading champion of sexual harassment practices. It is pretty much only Trump himself who now points out that the article she wrote based on this interview is a celebratory one. It lied: People had firsthand proof the marriage was something other than what it said it was but drooled sycophantically over the couple anyway. The influence of People contributed to creating the celebrity stature of Trump. Now, with no more information than it had then, it wants to take that stature back. From left: Trump with actress Arianne Zucker and Bush, who was fired Oct. 17 by NBC. Indeed, The New York Times, when it previously pursued the issue of Trumps behavior toward women for an article in May, relying on independent accounts, came up with an entirely different tenor of story — "a complex, at times contradictory portrait of a wealthy, well-known and provocative man and the women around him, one that defies simple categorization." Trump, not surprisingly, now that he has been simply categorized as a sex abuser, makes matters worse for himself. By attacking the media — with toothless threats of lawsuits — he fortifies its unity and its certainty. But you can see why hes hurt and confused. For so long the media encouraged him to be Donald Trump. Thirty years of enabling him and encouraging him. And through more than 18 months of campaigning for president, it really seemed like he was going to get away with being who he was. This story first appeared in the Nov. 4 issue of The Hollywood Reporter magazine. To receive the magazine, click here to subscribe.
After Colin Kaepernick rightly chose to kneel during the national anthem before NFL games, many racists and idiots came out with critical response to what was a peaceful, important statement against police brutality and systemic American racism. Violence against people of color, unimpugned state violence at that. Kap’s protest is strictly against racism, which is what this country was built on. On the backs of African slaves shipped here catch-style to do white people’s work. Kap’s protest is decidedly not against the American flag. Anyone — including our moron President — that tries to argue otherwise is themselves a moron. The troops are a manifold and variegated thing. Here’s a former Marine sayingthat Kap’s protest is nececcesary. Many of them fight for Kaepernick’s right to stand down during the national anthem. Here’s a picture of Laremy Tunsil, a wonderful and beautiful left tackle, kneeling out of solidarity with fellow Americans before Sunday’s game against the New York Jets, which the Dolphins lost, 20-6. Respecting the flag and respecting the anthem before football games are perhaps the dumbest notions floated among sports fans. Sporting events are not flag-worthy at all. Further, THESE ATHLETES ARE HUMAN PEOPLE. Laremy Tunsil is a real person with real political beliefs, and his political beliefs include black people shouldn’t be killed by the police with impunity.
Trump is so far off the reservation that he is claiming that Republican Special Counsel Robert Mueller is a Democrat who worked for Obama for eight years. Video: Trump said, But you have a group of investigators that are all Democrats. In some cases, they went to the Hillary Clinton celebration that turned out to be a funeral. So you have all these investigators that are Democrats. In all fairness, Bob Mueller worked for Obama for eight years. Robert Mueller did not work for Obama for eight years. He was replaced as FBI Director by James Comey in 2013. In 2011, Obama asked Mueller to say on beyond his initial ten-year term, and the Senate approved his request. Trump is in complete meltdown mode, and he is inventing reasons out of thin air for why he can’t sit down for an interview with the Special Counsel. The investigation is not a biased witch hunt against him. The Russia investigation is being run by members of Trump’s own party. The fact is that Trump is lying and running away from doing an interview with Mueller. For more discussion about this story join our Rachel Maddow and MSNBC group.
The level of doublethink involved in being a contemporary member of the GOP is astounding. Former Presidential candidate and current Donald Trump sycophant Mike Huckabee can barely even remember basic facts, like whether or not Trump has ever admitted to committing sexual assault. The things Republicans have to tell themselves and the public in order to continue pushing their agenda take some serious mental gymnastics. We have Presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway coining the term alternative facts. Former Press Secretary Sean Spicer became a laughing stock for his outrageous defenses of President Donald Trump’s statements and behavior. And the person who took Spicer’s Job, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, has continued that trend. For example, she suggested that ESPN analyst Jemele Hill be fired for bullying President Trump on Twitter, despite the fact that the President regularly uses his own Twitter account to shout down opponents and turn his followers against others. However, Sarah’s father Mike Huckabee may take the cake with his comments on Fox &amp; Friends this morning. Conservatives have loved speaking about disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein and his donations to Democratic causes and candidates, and Trump’s favorite morning team and Huckabee decided to tie it back to Hillary Clinton yet again. Host Abby Huntsman started things off by addressing Huckabee: There was also an uncomfortable moment when she talked about President Trump, how he admitted to being sexual assaulter. She was asked about the Weinstein situation and she mentioned how her husband – Bill Clinton – what he did was in the past. Anyone watching that, I think, was a little squirmy in their seat. She even looks squirmy, talking about it. Has President Trump ever admitted to being a sexual assaulter? Anyone with a halfway functioning brain would of course recall the infamous Access Hollywood tape where Trump bragged about grabbing women by the pussy because he was famous. Huckabee, apparently, lacks that halfway functioning brain, responding: I don’t recall that that has ever happened. He then proceeds to turn the discussion back to Bill Clinton, who, if you recall, was President twenty years ago. So keep playing in your big boy trucks, Donald, and know that your sycophants are doing everything in their power to rewrite history. Watch the ridiculous exchange below: Featured image via Flickr user Gage Skidmore / CC BY-SA 2.0.
Amanda Marshall was Oregon’s federal district attorney. Then the scandals started catching up to her. Appointed by Obama in 2011, Marshall resigned in 2015 after allegedly stalking a subordinate and having an affair, and later faced internal probes (no pun intended). Marshall is the DA who pursued charges, even to the point of double jeopardy, against Dwight and Steven Hammond, the eastern Oregon ranchers who preemptively set controlled burns to stop wildfires from encroaching on their property. After already serving time in federal prison, Marshall encouraged the judge to re-imprison them for a harsher sentence. Those actions are what prompted the Malheur Wildlife Refuge protests in early 2016. In 2014, Marshall was caught on camera conspiring with Gabby Gifford’s gun control group, Americans For Responsible Solutions, to scheme up new gun control laws and propaganda. She spoke of wanting to force county Sheriffs to enforce federal gun laws, while also being one of the voices saying that local law enforcement shouldn’t enforce federal immigration laws. Of course the anti gun folks were more than happy to feature Amanda Marshall as a guest speaker at a summit presented by Ceasefire Oregon and Oregon Alliance To Prevent Gun Violence. Now she faces ethics complaints with the Oregon State Bar. The Oregonian reports: The panel determined there was probable cause to bring ethics charges against Marshall for violating rules dealing with honesty and trustworthiness. The case now advances to the trial phase. A panel will convene, likely sometime in the spring, to determine if Marshall has engaged in misconduct. Punishment for ethics violations range from a public reprimand to a suspension or disbarment. The disciplinary board identified two rules Marshall may have violated, one involving criminal conduct that reflects poorly on a lawyer’s honesty and trustworthiness or fitness and the other dealing with conduct involving fraud and dishonesty. Marshall’s lawyer, Allison Martin Rhodes, said Monday that Marshall has always acknowledged that she was not completely truthful when asked by a superior about the relationship. Martin Rhodes has said Marshall lied when asked if she had sex with her subordinate but was subsequently forthcoming in a four-hour interview with authorities. The professional standards agency opened an investigation last year after the U.S. Department of Justice’s inspector general found Marshall had engaged in a yearlong intimate and personal relationship with a subordinate. The inspector general said Marshall, who now practices law in McMinnville, violated sexual harassment laws, lied to investigators and tried to block the investigation. The Inspector General’s Office in March 2015 opened an investigation of Marshall. She took a leave of absence that month, citing health reasons that included post-traumatic stress disorder. She officially resigned on May 15, 2015, amid the internal review. It’s just fitting that someone with ties to the Obama administration and anti-gun organizations is caught up in a series of scandals and lies.
Usher ILOSM family the situation between Usher and his STD accuser, Quantasia Sharpton, has just gotten even more real. For Ms. Sharpton, it’s bad, but for Usher, it’s great. As we previously informed you all, Quantasia claimed that she’d met Usher at his concert and then had a one night stand with him later that night, without him telling her that he allegedly has herpes… Fans Called Accuser’s Bluff It was her details ( and the prior lies she was accused of telling about other celebs) that caused many Usher fans to call her bluff though. Sharpton claimed that after Usher’s concert, she went back to her Days Inn hotel room and Usher called her, then went to Days Inn to sex her up like Color Me Badd (okay she didn’t say the Color Me Badd part, but if the shoe fits…). Anywho, after fans heard her ‘Days Inn’ claim, they were like ‘Chile please…Usher ain’t rollin’ up to a cheap Days Inn hotel room to have sex with you.’ Attorney Lisa Bloom with her accuser, Quantasia Days Inn Employee’s Claims Days later, an alleged Days Inn worker then claimed she saw Usher walk into the hotel to go see Quantasia. The worker also said the only reason she revealed that is because she didn’t like that Usher reportedly said to the press that Quantasia isn’t his type. Many Usher fans didn’t buy the employee’s story either. Usher’s Team Provides Their Proof Fast forward to today and Usher has spoken, through his team, to provide 3 facts that shoot down Quantasia’s claims, according to TMZ. Check out what was reported by Usher’s people below… 1. : Usher and , Grace Miguel Sources close to the singer tell TMZ … he says there was never a hotel hookup with Quantasia Sharpton, telling friends, in November 2014 he was on the verge of getting engaged to Grace Miguel. Usher tells them at the time of his alleged encounter, Grace was his manager and they spent ALL their free time together. His people say when the two weren’t enjoying free time, it was all business, and they were inseparable. The couple got engaged less than 2 months after the alleged Days Inn tryst.-via TMZ 2. ACCUSER’S TIMELINE CONFLICT: Usher’s people also say on the night in question his show ran late, which pushed the meet-and-greet well after midnight … and that flies in the face with Quantasia’s timeline in which she claims she hooked up with the singer around 12. TRAVEL SCHEDULE CONFLICT: We’re told his travel schedule was super tight too … making it even more unlikely he even had time to step out for a secret trip to the Days Inn. -via TMZ Sometimes it’s best to make moves in silence…I wonder if Quantasia Sharpton and her attorney, Lisa Bloom, are now wishing that she did, because this is turning out to be a mess. Join us on Facebook for the most engaging discussions from the Old School! Old School News With A New Point Of View!
Watch The Resistance with Keith Olbermann Chris Buck Donald Trump is our next president, which means Keiths not going anywhere. Catch every episode of his new GQ show, The Resistance, and then come join the fight. Dont miss Keith Olbermanns new book, Trump Is F-cking Crazy (This Is Not a Joke) Available now on Amazon EP. 146 The Trump Voters Who’ve Had Enough EP. 145 Guess Who Celebrated Election Night With Trump EP. 142 Did Trump Spot the Indictment’s Most Damning Phrase? Keith Olbermanns suits, starting with episode 100, provided by Tallia Orange
In fact, that’s probably something of an understatement, the President being dubbed ‘the Cheeto’ throughout America 51. But on the other hand, Corey doesn’t like the two-party system of American politics at all, which he makes abundantly clear at the beginning of his fourth book. One thing The Great Big Mouth loves, however, is his country – the United States Of America. In his typical stream-of-consciousness style, often flailing wildly off-topic, the Slipknot frontman airs his gripes with all the political bullshittery that has gone down on his home turf recently. While his previous books have taken aim at the unending list of humanity’s traits that annoy Corey, this is a takedown of modern-day politics and (of course) the Trump administration from a man who admits he feels no kinship to either big party, but has a wealth of knowledge on American politics and a comical yet vicious tongue to match. Using his band life and turbulent childhood as reference points throughout, Corey shares his liberal views on everything from Black Lives Matter to Reaganomics, with cursing and caps lock firmly in place, forever reminding the reader that he’s an asshole (his words!). And while not everyone will agree with the points made on these pages, this asshole knows his shit.
The Dallas Cowboys made headlines before their Week 3 Monday Night Football game against the Arizona Cardinals when they briefly knelt on the field — alongside owner Jerry Jones — and then stood with arms linked during the national anthem. While some saw the move as a good compromise between protesting during the anthem and respecting the flag, others were surprised and disappointed the Cowboys took a knee at all. Why is there politics in the middle of football? Political agenda being shoved down my throat everywhere No escape — TexasGirl (@HannahIvers) September 26, 2017 Well, Dez Bryant has good news for those who weren’t happy with the demonstration: It won’t be repeated. TRENDING: MLB Player Goes 7 Straight Games With HR, Sets Franchise Record The Cowboys’ star receiver told the Dallas Morning News that the team will go back to doing what it did before Monday night’s game: We’re going to stand and put our hand over our heart. Bryant said the Week 3 protest was just a response to [President Donald] Trump. Trump had suggested last week that he’d like to see NFL owners fire players who protest during the national anthem. Jones said Friday morning on KRLD-FMthat Bryant appeared to be torn before the protest took place in Arizona. I’m so appreciative of how the team responded, said Jones. Players were truly under pressure, external pressure from their relationships. They were really under pressure to basically in many cases kneel at the flag. As for this week, Bryant said, I’m going to leave all of that in the past. Trump also tweeted that he had spoken with Jones and confirmed that the players will stand for Week 4. Spoke to Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys yesterday. Jerry is a winner who knows how to get things done. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 27, 2017 It appears the Cowboys will be back to business as usual come Sunday. Dallas will look to build upon its Week 3 victory over the Cardinals as it hosts the surprising Los Angeles Rams at AT&amp;T Stadium. We are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism.
Donald Trump, Republican nominee for president, does not believe in the United States Constitution. That’s a strong statement, but it’s increasingly clear that it’s true. Trump wants to be president of a country whose fundamental organizing document he almost completely disagrees with. You know, the principles and values that make America great. When talking about the recent bombings in New York and New Jersey, Trump lamented the fact that the Constitution would require suspected bomber Ahmad Khan Rahami to be treated fairly. He will be represented by an outstanding lawyer. His case will go through the various court systems for years and in the end, people will forget and his punishment will not be what it once would have been. We must have speedy but fair trials and we must deliver a just and very harsh punishment to these people. Trump also decried that Rahami would be given amazing hospitalization and a fully modern and updated hospital room. Ever since Gideon v. Wainwright, the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution has been understood to require that everyone charged with serious offenses in this country receive defense counsel. This protection for criminal defendants is cause for celebration, not castigation. Speaking about this right in glowing terms, the Supreme Court has said it is necessary to insure fundamental human rights of life and liberty and called this a noble ideal without which there can be no fair trial. Similarly, the Eighth Amendment prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. Prisoners’ serious medical needs cannot be ignored; doing so would be cruel and unusual. The Supreme Court has explained that infliction of such unnecessary suffering is inconsistent with contemporary standards of decency and outlined the basic principle that the public be required to care for the prisoner, who cannot, by reason of the deprivation of his liberty, care for himself. Just this weekend, he once again showed that he couldn’t care less about the First Amendment. I said no (for now), but they are watching. Of course, as any middle school student will tell you, the First Amendment protects the freedom of the press. Part of that protection is that no public figure can sue as a result of a bad story without proving malice, meaning that the journalists knew the story was false or demonstrated complete disregard for whether it was true. This standard is crucial in protecting the press from being attacked by people who don’t like unflattering coverage. Without this principle, the press would be too scared to write pieces critical of the powerful, and the First Amendment would be virtually meaningless. It’s been clear from other contexts, though, that  virtually meaningless is how Trump views the First Amendment as a whole. Among other things, he has called for violence against individuals expressing their opinions and advocated for a religious test for those entering the country. These positions fly in the face of the First Amendment’s protection of free expression and freedom of religion, as well as its guarantee against an established state religion. Trump is no fan of the rest of the Constitution either. In other words, other than his repeated invocation of the Second Amendment, including his not-so-oblique references to one of his supporters shooting Hillary Clinton (something that came up again this weekend), Trump has shown that he disagrees not just with one or two isolated parts of the Constitution – which would be within normal democratic bounds, and is countenanced by the Constitution’s amendment process – but rather with the very fabric of the document. This is highly unusual in American politics, where most debate occurs against the backdrop of accepted constitutional principles. Trump doesn’t appear to accept those principles at all, and instead seems to want to be president of a country with a foreign understanding of government and its relationship to the people. If Trump were elected, he would have to swear the same allegiance to the Constitution that every president has before him: I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of president of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. Based on how he has campaigned over the past year, if he were to utter those last 10 words, he would be lying – as has become par for the course with Donald Trump.
Brynn Photo In his Alabama appearance for Roy Moore, Steve Bannon turned in an intellectually and morally putrid performance even by his standards. This is not an elevated line of reasoning and is not obviously correct on its own terms. With Democrats throwing John Conyers and Al Franken overboard, Senate Republicans would be welcoming into their ranks a potent symbol of sexual malfeasance to be used against them in the 2018 midterms. It’s a better argument, though, than the tawdry justifications offered up by Bannon, who parachuted into an already disreputable campaign and dragged it through the gutter. Bannon seems to misunderstand the nature of the deplorables he seeks to lead. It shouldn’t be a license for doing truly deplorable things. Democrats, at least some of them, now want to jettison Bill Clinton and are saying that they were wrong to defend him during his scandals. For his part, Bannon wants to pick up the ethics of the party of Clinton and transfer them into the GOP. In Alabama, Bannon used that phrase redolent of the 1990s, the politics of personal destruction. It’s not clear why the globalists would be so fixated on defeating Moore that they’d work behind the scenes to get a bunch of women — and corroborating witnesses — who don’t know each other to lie about Moore having a romantic interest in them when they were teenagers. It seems a lot of effort to defeat a man who is arguing he should be elected to provide another vote for corporate tax cuts. Bannon referred to a conspiracy against Donald Trump in the way the Access Hollywood tape was brought to light, somewhat jocularly. But his mind-set is deeply conspiratorial. Because there are so many forces arrayed against you — the globalists, the establishment, the media — you are freed of any moral responsibility or standards. In fact, the mere mention of the words honor or integrity is a terrible provocation. Bannon launched his scurrilous attack on Mitt Romney because the former Republican presidential nominee used those terms in opposing Moore. Bannon shot back, in a truly perverse riff, that Moore has more honor in his pinkie than the entire Romney clan; per Bannon, Moore served in Vietnam and Romney didn’t, and none of Romney’s sons joined the military. But it’s not worth trying too hard to unpack Bannon’s spiel. There is a huge element of play-acting here. Bannon waited to see which way the wind was blowing in Alabama. He’d be looking to minimize the damage and shift the blame (the advantage of the specter of an all-powerful establishment is that it can be blamed for anything). Privately, Bannon can’t be thrilled that he’s stuck with Moore, and he must know that Moore is a kook, even if he can’t admit it in public. Bannon likes to attack everyone else in the party for lacking courage, but in Alabama, he’s afraid to admit he backed a bum candidate and afraid to acknowledge the truth about Moore. The urgency to get the party to back Moore-type candidates isn’t immediately apparent. If the point is just to hold Republican Senate seats, safer, more conventional Republicans are better suited to the task. If the point is just to support the Trump agenda, safer, more conventional candidates are as reliable, and perhaps more reliable than the likes of Moore, who opposed the Graham-Cassidy health care bill (Rand Paul praises Roy Moore for opposing Obamacare repeal effort is how one headline put it at the time). Part of the point has to be to elect candidates who have no standards for the sake of it. Bannon may be thinking ahead to a time when the Trump sex allegations become a live issue again or when a true scandal emerges from the Robert Mueller investigation. In this scenario, will there be anyone more naturally inclined to be dismissive of the accusers or other evidence than former Judge Roy Moore? In which case, who is the one who has contempt for the rubes?
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said that Trump could be the greatest president in history. In a 14 December 2016 interview with CNN’s Don Lemon, Robert Kennedy, Jr. said that I think Trump can be any kind of president he wants. I think he could be the greatest president in history if he wanted to. Kennedy, who spoke these words prior to Donald Trumps taking office, was speaking in general terms about his hope that Trump would become a great president, seeing optimism in the fact that Trump appeared at the time to be unbound by ideology. On 14 December 2016, President John F. Kennedy’s nephew, Robert F. Kennedy Jr, appeared on CNN Tonight with Don Lemon to discuss the appointment of former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State (a move Kennedy, an environmental activist, was strongly opposed to). In an earlier segment on that night’s show, Lemon and his guests had drawn comparisons between the Trumps and the Kennedys, referencing remarks made by former Microsoft head Bill Gates a day earlier, with Lemon’s asking Kennedy Jr. how he felt about this comparison: We’ve discussed this on this show during the primary season, but Bill Gates has said today that Trump could be a new JFK. Some people look how close the Trump family is and how connected the children are to the family business and any they could be like the Kennedys. […] Kennedy’s answer, essentially, was not that Donald Trump had already done and achieved things that would fairly rank him as the greatest President in history, but that the comparison of Trump to the Kennedy family could turn out to be fair, because Donald Trump is less bound by ideology than any president probably that we’ve had this century. His statement was one of optimism for the future and was not rooted in anything Donald Trump (who had yet to assume office) had actually done as President: I think Trump, you know, because he doesn’t have obligations, he doesn’t owe anything to anybody, if he’s — I think if he cares about history and he understands that history is his principal audience, that he could be an extraordinary president. […] He said to Leonardo DiCaprio the other day that he wanted to be the next Teddy Roosevelt and he can easily do that he could — but I think it’s important to start by surrounding yourself with advisers who share that idealism and not people who are just working for the oil industry. I think he can be any kind of president he wants. I think he could be the greatest president in history if he wanted to. Since that exchange, numerous pro-Trump websites have run with Kennedy’s statement that I think [Trump] could be the greatest president in history without offering the any of the context that led to up to it. Numerous YouTube videos excerpt this brief segment, posted under the title Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Drops Bombshell: ‘Trump Could Be Greatest President In History! Other sites have added their own slanted commentary to Kennedy’s remark, frequently suggesting the conversation happened more recently. In a May 2017 post frequently reshared on Facebook, ConservativeFighters.com gleefully and rhetorically asked: Can you hear the sobs coming from liberal protesters when a left-wing icon like Robert F. Kennedy Jr. finally admits the truth? While Kennedy is certainly a Democrat, he has expressed willingness to work with Trump in the past, especially during the timeframe when the Don Lemon interview took place. Trump allegedly offered Kennedy (though Trump later disputed this) the chance to head a controversial commission on vaccine safety that had been widely panned by the medical community back in January 2017. However, because Kennedy’s words, in full context, were not offered as complimentary of Trump’s actions as a president (which he wasn’t at that point) but as a general hopefulness for the future, we rate this claim as a mixture. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Athletes choosing to kneel during the national anthem is currently a controversial topic in the US. The this past weekend, 27 players from the Jacksonville Jaguars and Baltimore Ravens opted to take a knee during the singing of the US national anthem before a game at Wembley Stadium in London. This was the most players ever to kneel during the national anthem in a single NFL game ever. The defiant stance has become a sign of protest against racial inequality within the US, and more recently, against President Trumps lacklustre response to the Charlottesville white-nationalist rally last month, and the heated aftermath that followed. The defiant stance first made national news following a preseason game in 2016, when Colin Kaepernick sat down (as opposed to the tradition of standing), during the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner". His reasoning was divisive, but simple: "I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder" Eventually, Kaepernick conversed with former NFL player and US military veteran, Nate Boyer, and they both agreed that kneeling would be a much more respectful way to protest, whilst still showing respect for those who have fought in the US military. But the Jaguars and the Ravens werent the only NFL teams to show solidarity against President Trump this week. The Pittsburgh Steelers, Oakland Raiders, Washington Redskins and more all protested in one way or another - with the Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans even choosing to remain their locker rooms during the playing of the national anthem. And yet, whats even more inflammatory is President Trumps reaction to the silent protests. Instead of addressing the issues of racial injustice, Trump has hit out at the NFL, stating that fans should refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag &amp; Country, and that any players who take a knee should be fired or suspended. But President Trump isnt the only fan tuning in every week to witness the protests. Young children are incredibly impressionable, and one six-year-old in particular decided to demonstrate a protest of his own during the pledge of allegiance at his elementary school. As reported on ABC Action News, a six-year-old boy in Pasco County knelt down during a reading of the pledge of allegiance - an action that his teacher found disrespectful of the country, and disrespectful of the flag. The teacher send a text message to the boys mother, informing her, "I knew where he had seen it. But I did tell him that in the classroom, we are learning what it means to be a good citizen". The teacher then told the child to "stand up and stop it", something that the boys mother does not believe is her "right". The boys mother said that she did not tell her son to take a knee, but also does not want her son to be silenced. She is now asking the school to be more open-minded, as she believes the issue is "much bigger" than her son. Linda Cobbe of Pasco County schools stated that they follow state law, and that the only way a student can be exempted from reciting the pledge of allegiance is with a written request from the parents, and even then, "they must stand". Cobbe also agreed that a more beneficial approach would have been to pull the boy to the side of the class and discuss the matter, instead of punishing him in front of the other students. But the mother believes that this shouldnt just be about her son: "The bigger issue is cultural. They have demonstrated to me, through multiple incidents, that they dont take inclusion and diversity serious". Both the boys mom and the school are now hoping that the incident will be something everyone can learn from, as the school "does not want to infringe on anyones rights". Should the boy and his mother be punished? Was it simply just a child copying something his favorite football team did one TV, or was he fighting for his right to be heard and respected in the community? One thing is for sure, the actions of the NFL are being seen and heard across the nation by everyone.
Doug New York Times This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Republicans are starting to talk openly about refusing to fill Antonin Scalia’s Supreme Court seat not only through the end of President Obama’s term but indefinitely. Ted Cruz, Charles Grassley and John McCain have all sent such signals, as have some other prominent conservatives. Too many top Republicans have made clear in recent years that they care more about winning than about adhering to political norms or doing what’s best for the country. You can see this attitude in the willingness to shut down the government, the threats to default on the national debt and the stated desire to make Obama a failed president. The political scientists Thomas Mann and Norm Ornstein call it  asymmetric polarization: the two political parties have come to behave quite differently. Refusing to seat a ninth justice, simply for ideological reasons, would be a clear and worrisome break with democratic tradition. It would send the message that Republicans believe a president should be able to exercise the Constitutional power to name justices only if that president were Republican. It would represent a new level of partisan cynicism. I hope that the wiser heads within the Republican Party prevail after the election. But Democrats should be prepared for the alternative. The alternative would mean that Senate control — which remains up in the air, given the tightness of recent polls — will be crucial. If Republicans hold the Senate, a President Hillary Clinton would be at their mercy with any nominee. If Democrats take the Senate, they would have an obvious fallback plan: eliminating the 60-vote threshold of the filibuster — as a Senate majority can always do — and confirming a justice with 51 votes. As long as Republicans keep talking about permanent obstructionism, Democrats should not hesitate to use that option. What I’m reading: Jeff Shesol, at The New Yorker, has an excellent breakdown of the growing signs of the Republicans’ Supreme Court obstructionism.
Trump said the investigation into whether his campaign colluded with the Kremlin is "phony," "bad for our country," a "witch hunt," and "evil politics." ( AP Photo/ Brennan Linsley) President Trump responded to reports that special counsel Robert Mueller is about to indict people in his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election by pointing the finger at Democrats. Trump said the investigation into whether his campaign colluded with the Kremlin is phony, bad for our country, a witch hunt, and evil politics. He added the news that Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee paid for the unverified dossier alleging scandalous behavior by Trump has united Republicans. Never seen such Republican ANGER &amp; UNITY as I have concerning the lack of investigation on Clinton made Fake Dossier (now $12,0,0?), the Uranium to Russia deal, the 33,0 plus deleted Emails, the Comey fix and so much more, Trump tweeted. Instead they look at phony , ‘collusion,’ which doesnt exist. The Dems are using this terrible (and bad for our country) Witch Hunt for evil politics, but the Rs are now fighting back like never before. There is so much GUILT by , and now the facts are pouring out. The $12 million figure refers to the amount of money Clinton’s campaign paid to Perkins and Cole, a law firm that then paid Fusion GPS to do opposition research on Trump. Fusion GPS then paid former British spy Christopher Steele, who authored the dossier on Trump that was released shortly before the inauguration. It’s not clear if all $12 million the Clinton campaign paid to the law firm went toward funding the dossier. Trump was also referring to a deal between an American company and a Russian government agency to purchase the company, which controlled about 20 percent of the country’s uranium supply. Clinton’s State Department was one of nine government agencies that signed off on the purchase, and that decision has come under new scrutiny after revelations that the FBI was investigating if Russians were trying to gain influence in the American uranium industry. Later on, Trump added the new focus on the Russia investigation is likely a distraction from the Republican push for tax reform. " All of this Russia talk right when the Republicans are making their big push for historic Tax Cuts &amp; Reform.
Opinion Modal Trigger Voters’ top concerns are the stagnant economy and the threat of terrorism, but you wouldn’t know it from Hillary Clinton’s TV ads or campaign speeches. Too embarrassed to run on her party’s economic record or her failed stint as secretary of state, she’s positioning herself as top cop of the speech police. For example, Hillary is running an ad depicting pre-teen girls looking self-consciously in the mirror, agonizing over their bodies. Sometimes such young girls’ worries turn into deadly eating disorders, ultimately killing 10 percent of those affected. Clinton cynically exploits the pain and fear felt by thousands of families. Parents struggling with their child’s eating disorder run to one doctor after another frantically seeking answers. The causes are complex and still not entirely known — but no one believes the cause is Donald Trump. Instead of trying to muzzle Trump and other men, why isn’t Hillary calling out her big supporters in the entertainment industry? The same question applies to Hillary’s double standard in bashing Trump for lewdness but celebrating it in popular music. Trump bragged to his buddy, I moved on her like a bitch. Clinton claims to have been outraged when she heard it, calling it horrific. Manhattan Institute scholar Heather Mac Donald chuckles at Clinton’s hypocritical sudden onset of Victorian vapors. Even when Beyoncé sings: I came to slay bitch . . . when he f–k me good I take his ass to Red Lobster. Clinton says, I want to be as good a president as Beyoncé is a performer. Trump can’t catch a break with Clinton, even when he’s trying to do the right thing. Another Clinton ad attacks Trump reaching out to inner-city African-Americans with promises of more jobs and school choice. It follows her ad featuring Ku Klux Klan members praising Trump. Worse than tarring Trump, she’s labeling cops, teachers and millions of other Americans racists. Whenever she talks to black audiences, she stokes racial resentment. All whites, she claims, have implicit bias, and she wants bias training for police and other professions. Implicit bias — you’re told you have it even if you don’t realize it, no matter how colorblind you try to be, and denying your bias just proves it. There’s no solid data to support it, cautions social scientists Philip Tetlock of UPenn and Gregory Mitchell of the University of Virginia and experts from New York University and the University of Connecticut. But if Clinton becomes president, we’ll all be undergoing re-education at school or work to cure our implicit bias. To see what President Hillary’s America would be like, look at most college campuses today. Few on campus dare to question Black Lives Matter, militant multiculturalism and safe spaces to spare students from challenging ideas. He doesn’t stick to the well-rehearsed rhetoric of a career politician. But his supporters are sick and tired of political correctness. He’s running to get the job done, something Hillary Clinton has already proven she can’t do. Betsy McCaughey is a senior fellow at the London Center for Policy Research.
On Monday ESPN suspended Jemele Hillfor 2 weeks in response to her tweets encouraging NFL fans to boycott anyone who sponsors Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones. Hills tweet was in response to Jones comments that any player who disrespected the flag would be cut from his team. In a statement ESPN said, "Jemele Hill has been suspended for two weeks for a second violation of our social media guidelines. She previously acknowledged letting her colleagues and company down with an impulsive tweet. In the aftermath, all employees were reminded of how individual tweets may reflect negatively on ESPN and that such actions would have consequences. Earlier this week, the co-host of ESPNs SC6 with Michael and Jemele" fired off a series of tweets calling the President a "bigot" and "white supremacist." Hill apologized for her tweets on Wednesday. " My comments on Twitter expressed my personal beliefs." My regret is that my comments and the public way I made them painted ESPN in an unfair light." The network issued a followup statement after her apology and said that Hill has a right to her personal beliefs, but said that they are not reflective of the companys opinions or beliefs. " She has acknowledged that her tweets crossed that line and has apologized for doing so. ESPN has been under intense scrutiny after they pulled their broadcaster Robert Lee off air as the tragic events in Charlottesville were unfolding" in August. The Associated Press contributed to this report. That is one of the more outrageous comments that anybody could make and certainly is something that is a fireable offense by ESPN, Sanders said on Wednesday. This comes after Jemele Hill, who co-hosts a ESPN show called SC6 with Michael and Jemele," fired off a series of Tweets denouncing Trump and calling his supporters white supremacists. EPSN soon issued a statement in response to Smiths remarks. We have addressed this with Jemele and she recognizes her actions were inappropriate. We have addressed this with Jemele and she recognizes her actions were inappropriate, ESPN added of Hill, a co-host on the 6 p.m. broadcast of the network’s SportsCenter program. Hill on Monday had a series of Twitter exchanges with other users that involved her harshly criticizing Trump. Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself white supremacists, she said in one tweet. Trump is the most ignorant, offensive president of my lifetime, Hill added in another post. His rise is a direct result of white supremacy. Hill added in a third tweet that Donald Trump is a bigot before going on to deride the president’s supporters. The height of white privilege is being able to ignore his white supremacy, because it’s of no threat to you, she said. Some Twitter users on Wednesday praised Hill for singling out Trump, while others lambasted her decision instead. Former National Football League (NFL) quarterback Colin Kaepernick, meanwhile, on Tuesday voiced support for Hill on Twitter. Kaepernick remains unsigned after playing with the San Francisco 49ers from 2011 to 2016 in a situation that remains controversial in the football world. The professional athlete began kneeling during the National Anthem last year to protest police brutality and racial injustice. Supporters say Kaepernick is making a legitimate stand for social justice, while critics charge he is acting unpatriotic instead. These celebrities ended up deleting their Twitter accounts.
The story is told that one evening, President Lincoln greeted a Congressional delegation, ushered them into his private study and asked their business. We present you with a petition, said the group leader, demanding that you dismiss General Grant. He is known to have been drunk in his tent. The president replied, Gentlemen, I wish all my generals drank what Grant drinks; he wins! This is how we should regard President Trump’s tweeting and his unbecoming, personal attacks on members of the media. We may cringe at Mika’s still-bleeding face, as we would in the tent of a drunken general. In office barely five months, he has moved sure-footedly to correct the derelictions of the feckless fool who preceded him. We are awestruck at the vision, purpose and energy Trump has brought to the leadership of his country. The Democrats, the Progressives (or do I repeat myself), the Radicals, The Anarchists, the Communists, the university intelligentsia, Black Lives Matter, all amalgamated into a huge mass of vicious, unhinged hatred for Donald Trump. He alone stands between A Great America and the Sorosification of America. And so we see a level of disgusting personal attack on Mr. Trump such as has never been seen before, including faux-beheadings, calls for his impeachment, calls for his assassination, magazine covers depicting the president’s head with the cross hairs of a rifle at his temple, queries about his sanity, professional assertions of his imbalance, bastardized Shakespearean plays, allegations that he is a modern Hitler, utterly invented stories of misconduct by Trump or his team, based on unidentified sources. I propose you did a disservice to your community and your country when you admonished Rep. McSally to come out and vigorously oppose President Trump and school him in proper conduct (Time for McSally to take a stand, July 5, Page A6). And I propose you were in error when you promised that if she did not follow your advice, she would be punished in 2018 by the voters. She owes her president her complete loyalty. And, if she is punished at the 2018 election, it will be for failure to support and defend her president, and the punishment will be at the hands of We The People, who elected Mr. Trump.
Brazil’s new Migration Law relaxes criminal penalties for migrants. At a recent protest against this law in São Paulo, Muslim migrants demonstrated their distaste for dissent. Jihad Watch reader Natan sends in this video and writes: Terrorist Attempt at Anti-Migration Law Protest in Brazil. Syrian immigrants throw homemade bombs at peaceful people protesting at Av. The attack took place on May 2, when the group of protesters was walking. The attack was recorded by one of the protesters. In the video it is possible to see when the Muslims ignited the artifact and launched against the civilians. Police arrested the attackers, the crime was registered at a local police station.
In his election campaign, Mr Trump was clear about his desire to build a "great great" wall along the border of the US and Mexico which he believes will bring an end to illegal immigration from South and Central America. LBC presenter Ian Collins received a call from Mexican Josephine, who explained why she could not wait for work to begin on the wall. Josephine believes people from her native country are victimised because the Mexican government does not do enough for their people and have no authority when it comes to handling crime, especially in relation to drugs. She said: We get the blame for all these criminals. A Mexican caller is excited for Donald Trump to build a wall along the American and Mexican border The Mexican government has turned a blind eye and the war has been lost with the drugs. Many areas of Mexico have become worse than Chicago. they look after their family and they have machine guns and they drive around in trucks. Collins then asked: So you’re saying Donald Trump wasn’t being a racist then? I don’t want to put words in your mouth I just want to be clear. Tue, December 13, 2016 Donald John Trump is an American businessman and politician who is President-elect of the United States as well as chairman and president of The Trump Organization No, no, no, Josephine replied. Since becoming President-elect has reiterated his intention to crack down on immigration. Speaking to CBS in his first major interview since being elected Mr Trump said: What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, where a lot of these people, probably two million – it could be even three million – we are getting them out of the country or we are going to incarcerate. Collins, attempting to understand why the Mexican woman was so pleased about Mr Trump’s election success, said: Was he saying something that lots of people think but are too scared to say? Josephine said: Yes, and another thing is that I love the people that are here that I know, I know many people that are Asians, that are Arabs, good speaking English people, but there are very few. The most people in the area don’t want to mix, and they are very hostile. I have scrutinised everything in this campaign and newspapers said today he is getting rid of three million migrants.
The NFL national anthem story isn’t going away anytime soon. During many debate shows that air on cable sports networks, it was topic one. This was especially true during true during FS1’s Undisputed with Skip Bayless and Shannon Sharpe. As the FS1 Dynamic Duo began discussing the topic, Sharpe went on an incredible eight-minute rant on how NFL owners suddenly got an awakening about President Trump’s comments at an Alabama rally about players who kneel during the national anthem. Sharpe first said he was disappointed and … unimpressed, about the whole thing. And then he expressed why he was disappointed and unimpressed: I’m disappointed, Skip and Joy, because this is the tipping point. Of the 7,537 things that President Trump has said in the last 50 years, him calling an NFL player a ‘SOB’ is what brought the NFL, the owners and players together. And while some might be moved by the conscience of these NFL owners, it wasn’t their conscience that moved them. Because see Skip, what we know about people with money, they don’t like to be told what to do…they don’t like being bullied. You see, President Trump has bullied a lot of people … Sharpe then mentioned Trump’s comments on Mexico, attacking a Gold Star family after last year’s Democratic National Convention, and his statements to former Access Hollywood host Billy Bush about women saying, that did not shock the conscience of NFL owners. And he also pointed out a number of owners, including Jerry Jones, Daniel Snyder, Shad Khan, and Robert Kraft, who contributed to Trump’s inauguration. Now I’m unimpressed because this wasn’t a protest. So what are we showing solidarity against, Skip? We’re showing solidarity because President Trump . he challenged the very men … wealthy, wealthy men … billionaires and he told them what you should do if someone protests, you should fire them. They don’t like being told what to do, Skip. And then, Skip, he called players that protested the anthem … he called them ‘SOB’s.’ Think about that now, he called them ‘SOB’s.’ That’s what got the owners, that’s what got the players to unite. Never called Vladimir Putin an ‘SOB,’ Never called (Erdogan) of Turkey an ‘SOB,’ even those men that walked down the streets in Charlottesville, Virginia … he never said ‘SOB’ … This was an impassioned Sharpe. He also pointed out Colin Kaepernick, who started the kneeling during the national anthem, was forgotten and the NFL owners were uniting against Donald Trump. It wasn’t until he came for the NFL that their conscience was shocked! Sharpe said of all the teams that issued statements this weekend, only the Seattle Seahawks got the reason why they were denouncing the President’s statements. And he also set his sights on fellow FS1 analyst Ray Lewis for previously criticizing Kaepernick and then kneeling on the sideline with the Baltimore Ravens in London on Sunday. Sharpe said he was very disappointed in him, saying Lewis sat in that chair right there saying that he could never kneel, never not stand for the national anthem citing those who died fighting for the flag and then he went down on both knees. It was one of the more emotional segments on Undisputed in its brief history.
Do Not Resist is an order to the viewer: Watch. Videos in newsfeeds depicting the murder of black men by police open automatically without warning on our screens all the time, forcing another wave of trauma for some black folks and other people of color. This film changes the perspective, offering on-the-ground footage of protests, police-academy training and interviews with people involved in both. Why does our society so often discount the stories of black people who face danger from the police? The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court has just passed a ruling declaring that it is reasonable for black men to flee police officers, so great is the risk. In this new and vital documentary, Craig Atkinson interrogates what is happening in American police departments and why cops presence on the streets looks more and more like war. Theres no need for commentary in the film when footage from protests in Ferguson, Missouri, immediately following Michael Browns death at the hands of a police officer shows squads of cops in riot gear, holsters on their hips, facing down young black men wearing shirts reading "STOP KILLING US." At local and national levels, Atkinson investigates. His visit to a police academy, where officers in training are told that the riskiness of their day jobs guarantees great sex back home, illuminates the objectification, detachment and selfish brutality of American police culture — and why it might be so seductive. Atkinson focuses on the growing resistance to it; we must, too. Director:Craig Atkinson Writer:Craig Atkinson
President Donald Trump criticized some in the National Football League Friday night at a rally for Alabama Republican Senate candidate Luther Strange, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem. Trump added that if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop." Trump said NFL owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a b**** off the field right now, hes fired. For a week, (that owner would) be the most popular person in this country. Because thats a total disrespect of our heritage. Thats a total disrespect for everything we stand for," Trump said. Last year, Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff. " I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," Kaepernick told NFL Media in August 2016. His protest spurred both support and backlash. Following the events in Charlottesville, Virginia, where white supremacists gathered to protest the removal of a Confederate soldier statue, Seattle Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett told CNN he would follow suit. " I cant stand for the national anthem," Bennett said. " Im not going to be standing until I see the equality and freedom." Trump also took aim at NFL efforts to prevent concussions. "
Tropical Storm Harvey is building up strength in the Gulf of Mexico. A hurricane may be on our hands, and it’s headed to Texas and Louisiana, where it is predicted to do a lot of flooding with massive amounts of rain and 80 mph winds. Update (8/25/17; 8:29 P.M.): Hurricane Harvey has seriously picked up. The storm has upped the ante to a Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds as high as 130 mph. Gusts of winds have been reported to be as high as 155 mph. Update (8/27/17; 10:45 P.M.): Massive flooding has reached Houston and many areas of southeast Texas, with 20 inches of rain hitting some areas. However, the hurricane has since dwindled from a Category 2, with sustained winds of 110 mph. More flooding and rainfall is expected into Wednesday, with meteorologists predicting 50 inches of rainfall. Three deaths have already been reported along with 12 injuries. Update (8/29/17; 7:52 P.M.): Harvey is officially a tropical storm. However, that doesn’t downplay the danger. An incredible amount of flooding has been reported in the Houston area. There are now 14 official causalities of the storm, including a family of six and a Houston police officer. Update (9/5/17; 1:34 P.M.): The death toll of Hurricane Harvey has increased to at least 60 causalities as a direct result of the storm. Officials are expecting up to 20 inches of rain in eastern Texas and southwestern Louisiana, starting Friday (August 25) up until the beginning of next week. As a result of the impending storm, Portland, Texas, is already being evacuated. Corpus Christi Mayor, Joe McComb, just announced that a voluntary evacuation is highly encouraged especially if you are in a low-lying area. — H-E-B Prepared (@HEBPrepared) August 24, 2017 Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell have also evacuated their employees. Flights in-and-out of the area have been cancelled and delayed. Gas stations are currently running out of gas as people are attempting to escape the path of the hurricane. Hurricane Harvey Path On Thursday, Hurricane Harvey can be found in the Gulf of Mexico. It’s been predicted that the storm will be into Texas by Friday, and will advance even more as it enters Louisiana. The current speed of the hurricane is 80 mph. San Patricio County issues mandatory evacuation via @callerdotcom #HurricaneHarvey #RGV — Teddy Wilson (@reportbywilson) August 24, 2017 School Closures Schools in Houston have been closed in anticipation of Hurricane Harvey. Districts are announcing closures for public schools, community colleges, and universities. Hurricane Harvey school closures in Houston: Districts already announcing closures 7vFuhFZ via @houstonchron — Andrew Blankstein (@anblanx) August 24, 2017 Here’s a short list of some of the schools that will be closing down as a result of the storm.
Rachel Crooks, Samantha Holvey and Jessica Leeds with documentarian Robert Greenwald (Photo: Screen capture) A total of 16 women joined together Monday to address their stories of sexual assault and sexual harassment at the hands of President Donald Trump. While many of these women came forward during the 2016 election, the Trump campaign attacked them, their lives and many right-wing activists invented information designed to discredit them. He commended the reporters who have investigated the many accounts across all industries about sexual harassment. There was one man that wasn’t being held accountable — who’s not being called out, Greenwald said. It really had an impact on your heart, your soul, your emotions, Greenwald said. He noted that so many women came forward to warn Americans, but attention was not paid. We know a lot better, when it comes to predators. He demanded those in politics to act against anyone of either party not to give anyone a pass. Given this hostile work environment, my only solution at the time was to simply avoid additional encounters with him, Crooks said. But make no mistake, there is no acceptable level of this behavior. That some men think they can use their power, position or notoriety to demean attack women speaks to their character and not ours. Which, believe me, is a tough lesson learned. She went on to say that it was only through other remarkably similar accounts that she felt empowered to come forward. Many women of any background can be victims. The only reason I am here today is because this offender is the president of our country. She asked that some things should transcend politics and that all people, regardless of position or power be held accountable for their actions, including Trump. But women kept coming up to her in public and told Leeds their own story. She said that she had hoped things were better for women in business, but apparently I was wrong. When the Harvey Weinstein story hit and woman after woman began to come forward, people were finally being held accountable. Leeds said that this is part of the problem that is happening in Alabama. Crooks agreed, saying that Trump endorsed Roy Moore because he denied the allegations and it worked for him. Lisa Boyne spoke via phone to the press conference, telling her own story of being invited to a dinner party with Trump in the West Village. She said that he wanted the women to rate other women on a 1 to 10 scale. Boyne said that Trump looked up their skirts as they walked by. She said that John Casablancas ordered her to drink more but she refused and he was bothered by her refusal. As a parent I was so deeply deeply offended… because he had a son around the age of my son and what sort of values are we teaching our children when we say that something like rape is ‘locker room talk, she shouted. That is the talk of horrible people and Trump keeps staying it to the press pool. And you’re all taking it in like it’s normal. We shouldn’t teach our boys to talk like this. Watch the full event below: You can watch the clip of the Brave New Films documentary below:
GREENVILLE, S.C. — Two people are dead after an officer-involved shooting Friday afternoon on White Horse Road, according to the Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis. The sheriff’s office got a call that a man with a gun was chasing a woman near McAfee Funeral Home, according to Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis. Deputies responded to a call that came in just after 4 p.m. according to dispatch. The shooting happened near the McAfee Funeral Home on White Horse Road, dispatch said. As the woman ran across White Horse Road, the man shot her, according to Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans. He said when deputies confronted the man, the man fired at deputies. The coroner said the deputies returned fire killing him. The woman was taken to Greenville Memorial Hospital where she was pronounced dead just before 5:30 p.m., said Evans. Saturday afternoon the Greenville County coroners office identified the woman as Candy Rosario, 25, of Greenville. Witnesses on scene said a deputy confronted the man and ordered him to put down his gun and the deputy was forced to discharge their weapon after the man did not put the gun down. Witnesses on scene said about 10 to 15 shots were fired. On Sunday, the Greenville County coroner identified the man as Ramiro Bravo Ramirez, 34, of Greenville. The coroner said autopsy results on Ramirez are still pending. Dispatchers said White Horse Road reopened around 6 a.m. on Saturday. All of the deputies are fine and the investigation has been turned over to SLED, Lewis said. Following standard procedure, the deputy is placed on administrative leave while the investigation is pending. We will continue to update this story as we get new information.
Disgraced Hollywood producer and mogul Harvey Weinstein has been under the spotlight as multiple disturbing allegations of him sexually abusing women have come to the publics attention following an article published by the New York Times. The abuse has allegedly been occurring for over three decades, with the earliest case cited being from 1984. TMZ writes that on Wednesday morning Weinsteins daughter Remy called 911 to notify police that her father was "suicidal and depressed." The 22-year-old and her father were reportedly arguing. The mornings event took place in the Los Angeles area. The Daily Mail reportsthat Weinstein attempted to flag down a ride from a random driver following the argument. When the police arrived, Remy reportedly made no mention that her father was suicidal, and said it was a family dispute. Actresses Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie, Mira Sorvino, Rosanna Arquette, Heather Graham, Ashley Judd, Asia Argento, and others have come forth with their personal stories of Weinsteins sickening and sexually abusive behavior. Weinsteins wife Georgina Chapman left the famed Hollywood producer on Tuesday. In a statement made to People, Chapman wrote, "My heart breaks for all the women who have suffered tremendous pain because of these unforgivable actions. Caring for my young children is my first priority and I ask the media for privacy at this time."
PUYALLUP, Wash. - A man who police say is connected to nearly a dozen robberies was shot by an officer after a chase Wednesday morning. The suspect is expected to survive after undergoing CPR at the scene. The officer responded to the Dennys restaurant near South Hill Mall for reports of an armed robber threatening employees and customers. The officer began chasing a pickup truck that was speeding away. The driver lost control and crashed into a concrete overpass pillar nearby, police say. Thats when the passenger pointed a gun at the driver, prompting the officer to fire a shot, injuring the gunman. The suspect was given CPR until medics could arrive and transport him to the hospital. Police say the suspect, a 37-year-old convicted felon, is tied to at least ten other robberies in the Pierce County area. The driver, a 39-year-old who is also a convicted felon, was arrested and booked into the Pierce County Jail, The officer is now on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure after an officer fires their gun.
A recent Sacramento Bee commentaryby another anti-Trump ankle biter (Horrified by Trump? Just tell yourself it could be worse, by Foon Rhee) talked about how horrified he was by President Trump. How Trump’s belittled our allies, demonized immigrants and endangered the environment — the usual mind vomit leftists spew forth on a daily basis. He talked about Russian collusion, which after 11 months and nearly $7 million has yielded no evidence whatsoever, and how Trump is undermining America by deregulating the EPA and repealing Obama’s health care debacle, which is true since Trump is trying to improve both fiascos. The writer then goes on to say that as horrible as Trump is, it could be worse. That is also true, especially if Hillary had been elected. She would not only have increased the growing malignancy of a liberal ideology that has made a mockery of the presidency, the IRS, the FBI, the DOJ and the media, but we’d have both Clinton serial women abusers and compulsive liars in the White House. On Hillary’s website one can open tabs on ethnic, religious and sexual minorities all related to the nature of diversity, power and oppression, but unlike Trump’s, there’s not one mention of her vision of a true American community. Latest news by email The afternoons latest local news Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms Larry Bargenquast, Paso Robles What do you think? Send your letters to the editor to letters@thetribunenews.comor submit your letter here. Letters should be no longer than 200 words. Your letter must include your address and phone number. Writers are limited to one letter a month. We reserve the right to edit letters for length, clarity and taste. All letters and Viewpoints become the property of The Tribune.
Mandalay Bay security guard Jesus Campos was an "accomplice" to Las Vegas Strip mass shooter Stephen Paddock. High-ranking officials from the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, the law enforcement agency leading the investigation, have said that while they still don’t know if Paddock had any accomplices in planning the attack, they have on several occasions confirmed that per their investigation, he was the only shooter. Disreputable web sites latch on to the chaotic aftermaths of such incidents to seduce audiences with alternatives to official investigations, claiming to harbor the truth that dishonest officials and the mainstream media are hiding from the public. For example, GotNews stories carry this fundraising plug: You won’t hear this stuff from the lying mainstream media. Keep the GotNews mission alive: donate at GotNews. If you’d like to join our research team, contact editor@gotnews.com. GotNews reported: The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives now believes Las Vegas gunman Stephen Paddock likely had help planning and executing the deadliest mass shooting in US history from none other than the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino security guard who was shot in the leg that night, a senior ATF official told GotNews. Jesus Campos has been praised for his apparent heroics on October 1st, as he supposedly rushed to Paddock’s suite, was shot in the upper thigh through the door, and continued to help get people to safety despite his wounds. However, a new report indicates the ATF now believes he was likely an accomplice of Paddock’s, and may have even been involved in the initial shooting as a second gunman from the other broken window in Paddock’s 32nd-floor room. According to an ATF official, these suspicions are corroborated by the extreme amount of gunpowder residue found on Campos’ hands. This is an ongoing investigation where we continue to work with our law enforcement partners, the ATF said. This article will continue to be updated with developments. If you have any tips, email editor@gotnews.com However, another disreputable web site, YourNewsWire.com, which regurgitated the GotNews story on 6 October 2017, did not include this crucial update to alert readers that the allegations in the story were disputed by the very agency cited. We found no evidence to support stories that report Campos acted in any other way than heroically. We now know that he was dispatched to what they call a door alarm on the 32nd floor. He went up there to investigate the open door and as he was doing his job diligently, he came under fire by our suspect. He notified his dispatch, which was absolutely critical to us knowing the location, as well as advising the responding officers as they arrived on that 32nd floor. I can tell you that this was a remarkable effort by a brave and remarkable man. I just want to take the moment and clear the record that he’s an absolute hero. This is not the first time Johnson has framed an innocent person (a heroic one, no less) in the aftermath of a deadly incident. He said of Johnson: When one does not care about the facts or how it affects people, it damages lives and creates a further disaster than what was originally created. On 12 August 2017, GotNews  retracted the article naming Vangheluwe as the driver of the car that rammed into the crowd, leaving 32-year-old Charlottesville resident Heather Heyer dead, allegedly because the police hadn’t yet named a suspect. Johnson, 28, has a long and dizzying history of scandal as a semi-successful Internet troll. He gained widespread notoriety when he attempted to out a woman who had anonymously written a disputed column about being raped on campus for Rolling Stone, but then identified the wrong woman. During a press briefing on 9 October 2017, Lombardo said investigators revised the shooting timeline, noting that Paddock shot Campos six minutes before he opened fire on the crowd. Through investigation, as I have conveyed to you from the very beginning, in your zest for information and my zest to ensure the public safety and the calming of their minds, is some things are going to change. There’s not this all-encompassing answer associated with the information that we presented before, in other words it’s not completely inaccurate, but what we have learned is Mr. Campos was encountered by the suspect prior to his [Paddock’s] shooting to the outside world. The domain name (cnn-internationaledition.com) and use of CNN’s logos successfully duped social media users into believing the story was legitimate and sharing it. Hosting records revealed that the site was registered on 10 October 2017, one day prior to the publication of the article. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
A protest sign is tacked to a pole before a speaking engagement by Ben Shapiro on the campus of the University of California Berkeley in Berkeley, Calif., Thursday, Sept. 14, 2017. ( AP Edelson) In an article focusing on free speech on the campus, The New York Times tells its readers that the UC Berkeley faculty is divided over whether or not the university should allow right-wing speakers to appear on campus. Their most recent concern was motivated by a "Free Speech Week" event that was being put together by provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos, who was invited by a small campus group called Berkeley Patriot. He was going to appear on the campus in February, but his scheduled speech was canceled after protesters prevented it from taking place. The upcoming event was scheduled to take place from September 24-27, but as Rick Moran reports in these pages, it was announced today that Berkeley Patriot canceled the event. Participants initially mentioned were Steve Bannon and Ann Coulter, but now it has become apparent that neither planned to attend. Listed speaker Charles Murray announced he would not participate in any event Milo had arranged because he is a despicable asshole. Murray’s name, moreover, was listed without his knowledge or consent. All of these announced speakers regularly enrage leftist students and send them into conniptions. To confound issues even more, Milo Yiannopoulos announced he would appear and speak anyway at the famous Sproul Plaza, the site of the 1964 Free Speech Movement protest. Promising surprises, he now is asserting his right to free speech as a private citizen to speak on campus without any formal group sponsorship or invitation. Saying he would appear this Sunday at noon, there is certain to be a large police presence as well as a vast group of leftist protestors, most likely including Antifa groups. The highlight at the now suspended conference was to be the "Mario Savio Award, given to the individual who in their eyes has most represented the idea of free speech. The name of the award is also meant to anger liberals. Mario Savio led the famous Berkeley protests in the 1960s. When the university moved in October of 1964 to prevent a protestor from speaking, students spontaneously surrounded the police car he had been put in. Savio gave an eloquent speech that made him famous from on top of the police car. Then they took over Sproul Plaza, the administration building. Eventually, scores of police arrived and arrested those students who had taken over the building. Now Yiannopoulos is co-opting the once liberal and leftist cause of free speech as his own, and in effect positing that he and his associates are the ones acting in Savio’s spirit. An organizer of the original 60s protests, playwright and author Barbara Garson, called Free Speech Week a grotesque parody of the movement she helped lead. As of today — the 23rd — the event will not take place. Yet Milos appearance — should he show up — has forced the university authorities to spend one million dollars arranging for security, since they fear the kind of violence that erupted in Charlottesville when Antifa appeared to contest the neo-Nazis and racists who planned a rally there. It’s getting very expensive for conservatives to speak. Recently, Ben Shapiro spoke without incident and reported he had a fruitful exchange of opinion with liberal and leftist students, although security for his talk cost UC Berkeley $600,0.
U.S. President Donald Trump, left, shakes hands with James Comey in January 2017 | Pool photo by Andrew Images President Donald Trump said Wednesday that former FBI Director James Comey lied and leaked information and ultimately protected Hillary Clinton, while also questioning the credibility of the FBI’s probe into her email. Trump’s early morning tweets come in the wake of news that the bureau’s former director had drafted a statement exonerating Clinton before the investigation was over. Wow, FBI confirms report that James Comey drafted letter exonerating Crooked Hillary Clinton long before investigation was complete. Many people not interviewed, including Clinton herself, Trump wrote on Twitter. Comey stated under oath that he didn’t do this-obviously a fix? As it has turned out, James Comey lied and leaked and totally protected Hillary Clinton. He was the best thing that ever happened to her! Newsweek reported Monday on documents released by the FBI that included an email sent on May 2, 2016, by Comey to other FBI officials that included a file titled Drafts of Director Comeys July 5, 2016 Statement Regarding Email Server Investigation Part 01 of 01. Despite Comey having already drafted a statement on the investigation into Clinton’s email practices while at the State Department, the probe would continue on for months. Clinton herself was not interviewed until July 2, 2016, three days before Comey held a press conference to announce that the FBI would not recommend filing charges against the former secretary of state. That Comey had drafted a statement exonerating Clinton with months to go before the completion of the investigation has raised concern among Republicans on Capitol Hill, including Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who wrote a letter to current FBI Director Christopher Wray noting that the outcome of an investigation should not be prejudged while FBI agents are still hard at work trying to gather the facts. While the president has complained that Comey was too easy on Clinton, the former secretary of state has made no secret that she believes it was Comey’s late October 2016, announcement that the bureau was examining potentially fresh evidence related to the email investigation that cost her the election. The evidence examined by the bureau came up fruitless, but Clinton has complained that the resurfacing of the scandal so close to Election Day reintroduced doubt into voters’ minds. Trump, who reveled in the bureau’s investigation into Clinton throughout the campaign, fired Comey last May, a move the White House initially said was based on Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s assessment of Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation. Trump later conceded that he had already made his mind up to fire Comey before receiving Rosenstein’s recommendation and that he had made the decision with the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election weighing on his mind.
State Police say an investigation has revealed the information in the viral video not to be accurate. ( Photo from ) ( ) -- The Michigan State Police out of Detroit took to Twitter reporting the claims of a viral video about human trafficking in a Metro Detroit suburb are not accurate. " It was investigated by law enforcement and not a case of human trafficking. He was right about being vigilant but that’s about it," said the State Police on Twitter. This is the Facebook post where Nick Ahmad claims human trafficking almost happened to his wife and others. The video has been viewed over 650,0 times and shared close to 30,0 times. After an investigation the Michigan State Police took to twitter saying the viral Facebook video is not accurate.
The former secretary of state announced that she will be seeking the nomination for President of the United States on Sunday with a campaign video on her official website. The spot opens with various people talking about their hopes for 2015, ending with Clinton saying, I’m getting ready to do something too. Americans have fought their way back from tough economic times, but the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top, she continues. Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion. So you can do more than just get by, you can get ahead and stay ahead. Clinton’s run for the presidency will hardly come as a surprise. The politician has long been hyped as the Democratic front-runner for the 2016 election. This marks Clinton’s second time vying for the presidency. She first ran during the 2008 election, but lost the Democratic ticket to then-junior senator Barack Obama. Clinton later served on Obama’s cabinet, working as the secretary of state from the start of his presidency in 2009 through Feb. 1, 2013. When Clinton, 67, left her position in 2013, political watchers took it as a sign that the former first lady was preparing for her own campaign in 2016. Her announcement makes her the first major candidate to seek out the Democratic nomination. On the Republican side, Senator Ted Cruz, from Texas, and Senator Rand Paul, from Kentucky, have already thrown their hats into the ring. Given Clinton’s high profile (and the fact that her candidacy has been speculated about for years), she has become a major target for both other Democratic hopeful nominees and Republicans. The past few months haven’t been without scandal. In March, she admitted to using a private email address while working as the secretary of state because it was convenient. While the politician said that she was allowed to use her personal email, critics took issue with the fact that it caused an issue for journalists requesting records through the Freedom of Information Act and Benghazi investigators who have subpoenaed Clinton. Watch These Children Freak Out as Bees Upstage President Obama More on Hillary Clinton: • Hillary Clinton Officially Joins the 2016 Presidential Race • Inside Hillary Clinton’s Decision to Run: ‘We Need to Break Down the Highest, Hardest Glass Ceiling’ • Barack Obama Offers Advice to Hillary Clinton for Her 2016 Run • What Should We Call Bill If Hillary Wins?
Politics share tweet tweet They are so blinded by their victim narrative that they don’t recognize that his very protest was actually an insult to the flag. Colin Kaepernick continues to be in the news, though recently it is largely for what he isn’t doing. He was released from the San Francisco 49ers earlier this year, and he has yet to find work despite several tantalizing openings due to roster upheaval and injuries on other teams. This is because many NFL owners and fans did not like how he kneeled for the national anthem. They viewed it as a self-indulgent and disrespectful act that politicized what should have been a nonpolitical event. But, showing their continued march towards irrelevancy, left leaning commentators like Ryan Clark on ESPN’s Mike and Mike show are now saying Kaepernick is a victim. Without a hint of irony, Clark said that Kaepernick was the flag bearer for blacks in America and the NFL. But in order to use that analogy, a person would have to actually respect the flag, and this in turn undermines the narrative that liberals and activists are peddling. The narrative from activists, race hucksters, and many politicians is that blacks are disproportionately targeted by cops and the judicial system. That they are victims of systemic poverty that leads to crime, and that the root causes and issues that are important to them are not being addressed. This narrative isn’t wholly disconnected from reality, but it’s twisted into an overtly political narrative that often undermines meaningful reform. Flag bearers are important in history because they often represent the focal point of command and control. The flag was usually close to the commander, and the flag moving forward on the battlefield could communicate an attack when it was too loud for words. It was an honorable tradition to carry the flag, and the enemy often aimed for the flag bearer, which made it the most dangerous spot on the battlefield. Raising the flag on Iwo Jima became one of America’s most cherished memorials, and seeing the flag through a nightly bombardment supplied our national anthem. No compatible source was found for this video. The importance of the flag doesn’t seem lost on Ryan Clarke and other analysts when they compare Kaepernick to a flag bearer. This makes their use of that analogy all the more tone deaf. They are so blinded by their victim narrative that they don’t recognize that his very protest was actually an insult to the flag. It’s tougher to find people more removed from the poor and supposedly discriminated members of inner cities than professional athletes. Acting macho and street tough is part of their persona, but it’s just as authentic as professional wrestling. These athletes are part of the one percent, who make more money than most Americans and play in taxpayer subsidized stadiums while getting special treatment. I can’t think of an individual more unsuited to lead the supposed civil rights crusade for blacks than a pampered 1% athlete. But with a black President, Secretary of State, and Supreme Court Justice, it’s tough to argue that racism is worse now than in the past when athletes stood and honored the flag. If Ryan Clarke and other liberal sports analysts want to praise the act of kneeling for the anthem, they should avoid using analogies that underscore the importance of the flag.
Vegas gun shop posts pre-Hillary sale advertisement pic.twitter. 2TSNm1lP — FOX &amp; Friends (@foxandfriends) October 17, 2016 Pence: Media Piling On Trump with Unsubstantiated Claims Giuliani: Trump Claims Seem Coincidental, WikiLeaks Info More Relevant Fr. Morris: Hillary Aides Want to Line Up Catholic Church with Dem Platform A Las Vegas gun store is offering a "pre-Hillary sale," saying that gun prices will rise under a Hillary Clinton administration. In an advertisement over the weekend in the Las Vegas Review-Journal, Westside Armory said it was holding the sale on tactical rifles. Prices will skyrocket after Crooked Hillary gets in. The advertisement shows a picture of a Smith &amp; Wesson M&amp;P Sport II, a semiautomatic tactical rifle, which the store is selling for $699.99. Let us know what you think in the comments. Dont miss the final presidential debate, moderated by Fox News Chris Wallace, on Wednesday, October 19th at 9:00pm ET on Fox News Channel! LOOK: Car Split Completely in Half After NY DUI Collision Pirro: If Hillary Picks Justices, No One Will Give a Damn About Trump Claims Democrat Caught on Tape: Might Be Executive Orders from Clinton on Gun Control
It seems that Corey Feldman was telling the truth about those 1993 tapes on which he named names of alleged sexual predators in Hollywood. In October, the former child actor claimed that he once told the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office about all of the alleged sexual predators in Hollywood during an interview related to the investigation of molestation accusations against Michael Jackson. The Sheriff’s Office previously said it didn’t have the records Feldman had referred to. On Wednesday, Fox News reported that it received confirmation from the Santa Barbara County sheriff that they did in fact have the tapes that Feldman was referring to. The publication received confirmation in an emailed statement: Following the recent inquiries into the Sheriff’s Office interview of Mr. Feldman in 1993, the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office conducted an additional review for any stored items remaining from the Michael Jackson investigation. In a container which included the original reports from the investigation, the Sheriff’s Office located some detective working copies of audio recordings made during the investigation. A copy of Mr. Feldman’s interview was located. The recording is being turned over to the Los Angeles Police Department. Due to the fact that this case involves the alleged sexual abuse of a child, we are unable to comment further and any documentation or evidence related to this case is exempt from release Feldman appeared on Today in October and told — ironically enough — Matt Lauer that he was crowd-sourcing $10 million for a documentary he claims will expose the truth about sex abuse in Hollywood. I’ve told the police … They’re on record. All they cared about was trying to find something on Michael Jackson. Michael was innocent … I told them, ‘He was not that guy, Feldman said at the time. Trending headlines DOWNLOAD OUR FREE NEWS APP © 2018 Cox Media Group.
SEATTLE - Seattle police say they arrested three men as hundreds of demonstrators and counter-protesters converged downtown Seattle one day after violent clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia. The rally organized by the conservative pro-Trump group known as Patriot Prayer — and a counter protest aimed at standing against hate — were planned for Sunday. Police officers stood by dressed in black, riot gear. Police said they used pepper spray and blast balls to disperse crowds after fireworks were thrown at officers. Those arrested were a 40-year-old man for obstruction, a 37-year-old man for assault and a 25-year old-man for assault. " Counter protesters included members of the Veterans for Peace, Socialist Party, Washington Federation of State Workers and other groups. When that didnt work, they tried taunting the officers with silly string. Council member Mike OBrien expressed frustration over the crowd being kept away from Westlake Park. " Why werent the demonstrators not allowed to get to Westlake Park?" He added he would like to find out why police prohibited the crowd from reaching Westlake Park. Many marchers said they were there to simply take a stand, especially after what happened in Charlottesville. " If they can push themselves through to see past their fear, they can find the love that exists here for them as well." The West Coast has slowly been infected with communist ideologies throughout our entire culture. It is a belief that the individual is weak and that we are all victims. No matter who you are, we are all amazing people with the ability to do anything that we put our minds to. Patriot Prayer will bring in a positive message to Seattle that the people are starving for. He called for peace and love and said anyone who attended for racist reasons should leave. He then said that Seattle and America’s values are inclusive values. Click here to see photos of todays rally and counter-protest. [ 4:57] The scheduled event at Westlake Park has concluded. @SeattlePD) August 13, 2017 [4:45] Seattle Police have made an arrest at 5th and Pine. Police have made an arrest at 5th and Pine. @SeattlePD) August 13, 2017 [3:54] An update from the Seattle Police Department: Police continue to maintain a presence at a separate event at Westlake Park. — @SeattlePD) August 13, 2017 [3:47] Demonstrators are marching back to Denny Park, according to the Seattle Police Department. Demonstrators are marching back to Denny Park. Police also have confiscated weapons, and have made arrests. The number of arrests is unknown at this point. Police confiscated these weapons &amp; have made arrests. They will gather at Denny Park at 1 p.m. The Patriot Prayer group had touted the event as a Freedom Rally; opponents of their messaging say the group is homophobic, racist and bigoted. The group has been criticized for inciting violence at recent gatherings in Portland and Vancouver, B.C. The Columbian newspaper recently did a profile on the groups lead, Joey Gibson.
The DNC has gone beyond the pale this year in using an anchor baby Karla Ortiz, her illegal mother and a second illegal immigrant, Astrid Silva, to promote illegal immigration at their convention this year. The child puppet of the Clinton machine was brought on stage to share that she is afraid that her mommy and daddy would be forced to leave. The crowd went wild, cheering for this law-breaking family and for the wanton use of a child to promote their open border agenda. Breaking the law, as we have seen with Hillary, is no big deal, and therefore breaking into this country is also of no consequence to Democrats. In fact, one can almost hear Hillary say, What difference does it make? Let them all stay, as long as they vote for me. Read the remarks swirling on Twitter regarding Karla Ortiz and her illegal immigrant parents on the next page. Next Page » Hillary has no shame and will use whomever she pleases to make it to the White House. In today’s Democrat Party, rules and laws mean absolutely nothing if they hurt your feelings. Immigrants are obviously great for this country in many ways. But that’s not the conversation the left wants to have. They want to demonize anyone who thinks we should be able to control who comes in and malign anyone who believes that immigrants should come here legally the right way. It’s pathetic to watch them cloud the issue like this. Here are some of the responses that started pouring in instantly from the left. I am the daughter of an immigrant &amp; a daughter of the American Revolution. Our nation’s diversity is our greatest strength #DemsInPhilly This girl’s speech about the fear of deportation brought people to to tears #DemsInPhilly 5xcNQjM via @fusion — Mike de la Rocha (@mrmikedelarocha) July 26, 2016 #KarlaOrtiz Beautiful speech I literally cried. # inspiring#weareallamericans#america — Francisco Aguilar (@francoj559) July 26, 2016 Mother-daughter duo who could be separated by deportation try to humanize immigration issues at DNC 8o — Annelize Bester (@AnnelizeBester) July 26, 2016 28-year-old illegal immigrant, Astrid Silva, blasted Donald Trump in her speech at the DNC for his promise to separate families: When I was four years old, my mother and I climbed into a raft and we crossed a river to join my dad in America for a better life, Astrid Silva, who hails from Mexico, said in remarks delivered to the 4,0-plus Democratic delegation. Silva was the first illegal immigrant to deliver a major speech at either party’s nominating conventions. My family and I are here because of people like Sen. Harry Reid, she said, highlighting the Senate minority leader’s defense of DREAMers, or young adults who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children. When Donald Trump talked about deporting 11 million people, he’s talking about separating families like mine, Silver said. Hillary Clinton understands that this is not who we are as a country. I know she will fight to keep our families together. I know she will, Silver said of the former secretary of state. Ahead of her convention speech, Silver told Fusion she hoped the invitation to speak demonstrated the stark contrast between the Democratic National Convention and the Republicans’ four-day gathering in Cleveland last week, where undocumented people [were] being called horrible names. Forget law and order and rational thought, let’s just let our feelings do the voting and put the Queen of Law Breaking in the White House. If Trump doesn’t make it into the White House America as we have known and loved her will cease to exist. ?
A wave of liberal rage has marked the last 11 months since the rise and subsequent election of President Donald Trump. Antifa protestors clad in black masks shut down college campuses, destroy property and indiscriminately attack those they disagree with, whether women or the elderly. Amid this backdrop, The Huffington Post publishes an article calling for the execution of Trump and everyone assisting his agenda. Then, shots ring out as a man gorged on media hysteria attempts to slaughter Republican congressmen while they practice for a charity baseball game. The aggression since Trump’s nomination is difficult to enumerate, but nevertheless, The Daily Caller News Foundation pored over media reports to compile a close but non-exhaustive list of violent acts against conservatives in months following the Republican National Convention. No compatible source was found for this video. In creating the list, The DCNF reviewed numerous articles detailing attacks and violent threats against conservatives and Trump supporters. While there are examples of anonymous threats, The DCNF chose to include only those that resulted in the cancelling of events and two to members of Congress deemed credible. Some instances of violence between rival protestors were not included as it was difficult to ascertain who initiated the event. To see the list of attacks visit The Daily Caller. By now, you already know that Republican lawmakers were the target of a brutal and unjustifiable shooting in Virginia. House majority whip Steve Scalise was shot several times and has been hospitalized. He appears to be in critical but stable condition. Several other Republican lawmakers witnessed the carnage. The shooter, socialist democrat James Hodgkinson, wasn’t so lucky, succumbing to wounds received in a shootout with police officers. The shooting occurred during an early morning baseball practice. The shooter, Hodgkinson, appears to have been an ardent Bernie Sanders supporter and opposed President Trump. His choice of targets was almost certainly not random and was likely premeditated. Hodgkinson is from Illinois but has been staying in the DC area for at least six weeks. Besides Scalise, two police officers were wounded during the shooting. Senator Paul Rand, who witness the event, has hailed the police officers and credited them for preventing a far worse tragedy. The police officers present were there to guard Scalise. Hodgkinson already had a track record with the police before the shooting. He had previously been charged with assault and battery for punching a woman in the face with a closed fist. He also confronted that woman’s boyfriend with a shotgun, reportedly firing one shot in the air. Apparently, he also physically abused his daughter, and police were called when he started shooting several pine trees on his property. Neighbors were worried that bullets would strike nearby homes. Hodgkinson also claimed to be a democratic socialist on his social media profiles. All he did was give tax breaks to the rich and put the rest of the country (or at least 13.1 percent) out of work. He added, To think the Republican Party can call this man their idol is un-American.
President Donald Trump forecasted that Bernie Sanders would run against him in 2020 even if he’s in a wheelchair, and mocked the Vermont senator by imitating a scrunched-up body. Trump expressed that opinion over the summer when he invited four Democratic lawmakers to the White House, and also asked, Who is going to run against me in 2020? At 70 years old, Trump was the oldest president to be inaugurated in the U.S. Trump, now 71, is nearly five years younger than Sanders, who would turn 79 in 2020. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) speaks during a rally against President Donald Trumps travel ban outside the Supreme Court in Washington, DC, U.S. January 30, 2017. P. Bernstein Reuters But Sanders’s wife Jane in June said that the senator was actively advocating for policies benefiting the working class and that his age wasn’t a factor. Ageism is the last ‘ism’ that seems to be acceptable to people, and I never felt that it was whether somebody was too young or too old, she told the New York Times. And you keep on going and maybe you can win the next one. Bernie Sanders, who lost the Democratic nomination to Hillary Clinton last year, has started addressing some of his political shortcomings including his lack of foreign policy connections, a sign he may be gearing up for a 2020 bid, POLITICO reported late last month. Other Democrats that Trump called out over the summer have not indicated they will make a bid for the presidency. After Trump in October tweeted he hopes Clinton will run against him, Clinton told BBC Radio 4, No, I’m not going to run again, but that she would continue to speak out against Trump. Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, who Trump refers to as Pocahontas because she claims to have a Native American background, is considered a top Democratic contender. In August, she brushed off the idea, saying, Im doing my job every single day. I am not running for president, Im doing my work." Meanwhile, some Republicans recently have cast doubt over whether Trump will seek reelection—even though he is raising millions of dollars for a campaign. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie in October told the Today show that if Trump runs again, I would support him, yes, but Im not so sure what will happen." Shortly after, Senator Rand Paul said Republicans "need to know (if) President Trump (is) running for re-election, and, I think you wont know that until you get into sort of second, third year of his presidency." Trump’s approval rating has remained very low as a probe into whether he and his campaign colluded with Russians in the 2016 election widens.
Photo by MaryHelen Avalos The Sons of the American Legion recently retired a torn and tattered American flag and presenting a new one to Adrea Ricke, Globe Public Library Manager. From left to right: A.J. Sprague, Sons of the American Legion Adjutant and Finance Officer; Margaret Smith, American Legion Adjutant; Jesse Horta, member; Su Samra; Adrea Ricke, Library Manager and Hector Samra, Legion member.
Usually, the person with the most information makes better decisions. But when you rely on info that’s wrong, chances increase that your decisions are wrong. So it is with Florida’s solar power ballot Amendment 1. Opponents are funneling misinformation into the discussion. The truth is that by voting for Amendment 1, Florida voters have a historic opportunity to advance solar power in the Sunshine State, at the same time ensuring that energy consumers are treated fairly; this includes those who choose solar and those who do not. It constitutionally guarantees individuals and businesses the right to buy or lease solar equipment to produce their own energy; this means consumers will always have the right to generate their own solar electricity, and politicians cannot tamper with that right. Contrary to what opponents say, solar customers can still sell any excess electricity they generate back into the electric grid. More importantly, it protects Florida consumers from scams, rip-offs, overcharging and unfair subsidies. It treats all electricity consumers fairly. Because it is renewable energy, a tax break is provided. This is because renewable solar energy aids in protecting the environment. If you choose not to install solar, you won’t be required to subsidize the costs of electric grid access and back-up power to those who do. Another good point made by Florida TaxWatch is that, for Floridians who want the right to provide their own energy needs, this amendment raises that right to Constitutional status, which strengthens that right, as it cannot be changed by state or local governments without going back to the voters. Something else you should know, since we are seeing political leftists like the League of Women Voters dishing out misinformation to welcoming publishers like The Palm Beach Post (which editorially calls Amendment 1 a fraud), is that this ballot initiative is being supported by a wide list of groups other than utility companies. These include bipartisan coalitions of business, civic, non-profit and faith-based organizations working to promote solar energy without sacrificing common sense consumer protection. Many of those opposing Amendment 1 are companies that don’t want you to buy your own solar panels to generate your own electricity because they want you to buy solar electricity from them. Their business model is to lock consumers into 20-year contracts to put their solar equipment on your roof and sell you the electricity from it. And here’s the awful catch: The current published price for one of the leading companies, Solar City, is nearly 50% higher than what average Floridians pay for electricity today, plus its contract includes an automatic 2.9% cost increase—double what Floridians normally face. Something else these opponents fail to divulge is that they want a subsidy to operate their business model in Florida, a stand-by charge uniformly applied to every electric customer to ensure their model makes economic sense—for them. I do not believe that’s good for Floridians. Amendment 1 protects consumers from this type of subsidy. The Amendment does not block ownership of solar, it does not make solar more expensive, and it certainly does not discourage people from installing solar on their homes. These are outright lies to pull the wool over your eyes. Florida deserves a holistic approach to solar. Thankfully, Amendment 1 will provide a constitutional framework for solar in the Sunshine State, which will keep politicians and special interest groups from tampering with it.
Rose McGowan, one of 28 actresses and film industry figures who has accused Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein of sexual misconduct, blasted colleagues Ben Affleck and Matt Damon for allegedly remaining silent about the charges for years. Affleck and Damon were accused of helping kill a 2004 New York Times story about Weinsteins inappropriate sexual behavior. McGowan called Damon a spineless profiteer: Hey @mattdamon what’s it like to be a spineless profiteer who stays silent? 0OrRrpqJ She was a tad bit more concise with this blast at Affleck: Ben Affleck fuck off This tweet from Affleck really set her off: To which she responded: @benaffleck GODDAMNIT! I TOLD HIM TO STOP DOING THAT you said that to my face. The press conf I was made to go to after assault. OK, now that you understand the flavor of the whole thing, enter, the Twitter police. McGowan announced on Wednesday via Instagram that the Twitter powers that be had suspended her account for 12 hours — with the countdown to begin after she deleted the tweets that violate our rules: No word what those rules are, given Twitter is littered with F-bombs and worse on a daily basis, not to mention brutal ad hominem attacks against anyone and everyone. In 1997, then-23-year-old McGowan reportedly reached a $100,0 settlement with Weinstein over what The New York Times described as an episode in a hotel room during the Sundance Film Festival, Business Insider reported. Oddly, ten years later, McGowan and Weinstein were all smiles as they arrived, arm-in-arm, at the Los Angeles premiere of the film Grindhouse in March 2007: TMZ originally reported that the producer would be getting help in Wickenburg, Arizona. But Thursday morning, it reported that Weinstein is now in the Scottsdale, Arizona, area at a rehabilitation center for treatment of behavioral issues, including sexual addiction. As is often the case, (see: Anthony Weiner, et al.) Weinsteins apologies and subsequent claims of desiring help come only after decades of alleged inappropriate sexual behavior, including alleged rape, after finally being outed.
On 15 October 2015 we published an article with the headline Children forced to cook and clean for migrants. Correction The article was inaccurate in that it claimed that the German children in question had been forced to carry out work for migrants. The Kiel Ministry of Education confirmed that the school had come up with the idea because some migrant children sat in the class. It said that the students themselves thought of the project.
CreditIsaac Brekken for The New York Times That black adolescents receive harsher disciplinary punishments at school than their white peers for the same offenses is troubling enough. But federal data showing that even at the preschool level black students are nearly four times as likely to be suspended as their white peers is especially shocking. What it suggests is that racial biases are creeping into classrooms filled with 4-year-olds and that schools are effectively criminalizing black children, particularly boys, when they are barely out of diapers. Two years ago, federal civil rights officials issued guidance calling on school districts to train their teachers to overcome this problem and showing districts how to recognize and avoid discriminatory practices. But researchers are just beginning to understand the psychological mechanisms that lead teachers who see themselves as loving, supportive figures to discriminate against minorities. Chief among these mechanisms, according to a new reportfrom Yale University’s Child Study Center, are racial preconceptions that shape the way the teachers view black boys in particular. These preconceptions were found to exist in black as well as white preschool teachers. In the study, the Yale researchers showed teachers a dozen brief video clips of four well-behaved preschool-aged children, two boys, one black and one white, and two girls, one black and one white, working and playing together in a classroom. Though the children were behaving calmly, the teachers were asked to look for signs of behavior that might become problematic. A computer program that tracked the eyes of the teachers as they watched the video showed that both black and white teachers watched the black children, especially the boys, longer when looking for signs of trouble. And when the researchers asked teachers which child had commanded the most attention, 42 percent of them chose the black boy, 34 percent the white boy, 13 percent the white girl and 10 percent the black girl. In other words, the black boy in this study received far more scrutiny from teachers than his behavior warranted. This brings to mind the driving while black phenomenon, in which police officers stop African-American motorists without cause, or stop-and-frisk practices that predominantly single out blacks. The Yale study is consistent with previous research suggesting that teachers tend to see acting out by black children as more threatening than similar behavior in white children, and thus deserving of disproportionately harsher punishments. This is counterproductive on a number of counts, but what’s really at stake here is the future of these children, whose early disciplinary problems put them at greater risk later on of falling behind, dropping out and eventually getting caught up in the juvenile justice system.
Disney’s Hollywood Studios is quite often looked at as a ‘half-day park.’ While Hollywood Studios is undergoing a significant amount of changes as they begin to construct both Star Wars Land and Toy Story Land, this doesn’t mean that the park doesn’t have much to offer. Here are four reasons why we keep going back to Disney’s Hollywood Studios: 4. Excellent restaurants One of the things I love most about Disney’s Hollywood Studios is the table service restaurants because they are so wonderfully themed. From elegant and classy to old-fashioned and heart-warming, these restaurants do a great job of serving you high quality food with high quality service. I love the old Hollywood vibe and decadent menu at the Hollywood Brown Derby, especially for a special night out. I also love the Sci-Fi Dine In Theater, with its unique theming and restaurant setup and classic American menu. Star Wars If you’re a fan of the classic franchise, then you are definitely going to keep going to Hollywood Studios. Though Star Wars Land isn’t set to open for another few years, there is still an abundance of Star Wars to go around in the meantime. Guests can ride Star Tours: The Adventure Continues and come face to face with some of the most beloved, and feared, characters of the franchise. They have even updated the ride to include characters from Star Wars: The Force Awakens. Fans of Star Wars can also head to the Star Wars Launch Bay located in the animation courtyard. Inside, they will have the chance to browse through Star Wars merchandise and meet Chewbacca and Kylo Ren. If you are a fan of the movie and a fan of musicals, this Broadway style show will have you singing and bopping along to the movie’s most inspiring songs. Another big attraction in the park that I, personally, would consider a form of entertainment is the Frozen sing-a-long in the theatre that once housed the American Idol Experience. Two Arendelle historians, who bring the house down every time I see it, bring this fun and enchanting retelling of the story to life. Plus, who doesn’t love to belt out ‘Let It Go’? And we can’t forget about the nighttime show, Fantasmic! Step inside Mickey Mouse’s imagination and see just how powerful your dreams can be, complete with plenty of appearances from your favorite Disney characters. The park has also recently introduced a new holiday nighttime spectacular titled Jingle Bell, Jingle BAM! With plenty of special effects, projections and fireworks, it’s sure to become a family favorite. People come from all over the world just to experience the Tower of Terror, which is a classic ride that has been helping guests ‘drop in’ since 1994. Hollywood Studios is also home to one of the few classic roller coasters Disney has—Rock ‘N’ Roller Coaster. One of the more recent additions to the park, and my personal favorite, is Toy Story Midway Mania, which lets you battle your friends and family in five carnival-inspired games inspired by different Toy Story characters. You get to step inside some of the most iconic movie scenes in film history, and you even get to be part of the show as well. These are only a few of the attractions available to you, but it proves that there are many things that will keep you coming back. Though many people will try to argue that Disney’s Hollywood Studios isn’t a park worth spending an entire day at, there are many reasons why they’re wrong. With a variety of restaurants, entertainment and attractions, there are plenty of things to do that will keep you and your family entertained all day long. Be sure to check out all that Hollywood Studios has to offer during your next trip. They’ll help you get the best Walt Disney World deal, share expert advice and their services are totally FREE!
Emails leaked from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta’s private email account Friday by WikiLeaks addressed using executive privilege to keep the emails between Hillary Clinton and President Obama from being released, a 2008 survey testing reaction to then-Sen. Obama’s Muslim father and use of cocaine, and a suggestion from former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm on how to take Clinton out of the bubble. March 2015: Podesta wrote to Cheryl Mills about withholding emails between Clinton and Obama Six days before Hillary Clinton spoke to reporters at the United Nations about her private email server, Podesta wrote to Cheryl Mills, Think we should hold emails to and from potus? They may not care, but I seems like they will. In September, Politico reported that the State Department would not release emails exchanged between Clinton and Obama to the public, citing the presidential communications privilege, which is another name for the executive privilege. Claiming the privilege enables the president to withhold certain information that has been requested by other branches of government or by the public. This means that the emails the two wrote to each other won’t be released until 5 to 12 years after the end of the Obama administration, as dictated by the Presidential Records Act. January 2008: Clinton pollster proposed message testing lines on Obama--including reference to his Muslim father, past cocaine use An email referring to McCain Survey-3 from Greenberg research listed a number of survey questions with negative facts about Clinton’s primary opponent, then-Sen. Kristi Fuksa, of Greenberg Research, sent the email to Democratic operatives including Podesta, Paul Begala, Tara McGuinness and Susan McCue The statements floated included subjects like his upbringing among Muslims, his father’s Muslim faith, his referring to past cocaine use as a little blow -- here’s the survey: * 1 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) was the only candidate at a recent event not to cover his heart during the national anthem and he has stopped wearing an American flag pin. * 2 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) benefited from a land deal from a contributor who has been indicted for corruption. * 3 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) would personally negotiate with the leaders of terrorist nations like Iran and North Korea without preconditions. * 4 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) voted against allowing people to use handguns to defend themselves against intruders. * 5 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) plans to raise taxes by 180 (one hundred and eighty) billion dollars a year to pay for his government-run health care plan * 6 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) voted repeatedly against emergency funding bills for U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. * 7 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh)‘s father was a Muslim and Obama grew up among Muslims in the world’s most populous Islamic country. * 8 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) is ranked as one of the ten most liberal members of the Senate because of his support of issues like gay adoption. * 9 (Other) * 10 (All) * 11 (None) * 12 (Don’t ) * 13 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) voted against requiring medical care for aborted fetuses who survive the procedure. * 14 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) supports giving driver’s licenses to undocumented immigrants * 15 Obama (owe-BAHM-uh) described his former use of cocaine as using a little blow. Begala told the Washington Post that the survey was named for John McCain because it was designed to test attacks that might come in the general election. He also pointed out that every campaign and every PAC tests potential negatives against the candidate they support.that’s all it was. July 2015: Jennifer Granholm’s suggestion on how to get Clinton out of the bubble The former Michigan governor suggested Clinton could dispense with the idea that she’s out of touch by doing work days, in which she’d pick 8 occupations that she is willing to spend one day working at. She humbles herself, but gives dignity to the workers whose salaries she wants to raise. Some of Granholm’s suggestions included working as a janitor in a school cafeteria, at a daycare center, making beds in a hotel, bussing tables at Denny’s or working behind the counter at McDonalds or Chipotle’s! CBS News’ Steve Chaggaris and Donald Judd contributed to this report © 2016 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Trump took a shot at Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Monday, describing him as "beleaguered" in a tweet about the Russia investigation. " After 1 year of investigation with Zero evidence being found, Chuck Schumer just stated that "Democrats should blame ourselves,not Russia," Trump tweeted. " So why arent the Committees and investigators, and of course our beleaguered A.G., looking into Crooked Hillarys crimes &amp; Russia relations?" Trump disclosed in a New York Times interview on Wednesday that he would not have hired Sessions if he had known that Sessions would recuse himself from the Russia probe. " Should have never recused himself and if he was going to recuse himself he should have told me before he took the job and I would have picked somebody else," Trump said. The presidents comments prompted speculation that Sessions would resign from his post. However, a day after the interview was published, Sessions said he plans on continuing in the role. " I’m totally confident that we can continue to run this office in an effective way," Sessions said.
Upon hearing about the establishment of the award in his honor, Muhammad Ali said, I know there will be a great tradition of champions to receive this award in the future." He would be proud to know of all that Colin Kaepernick is doing to help change the world and fight systemic racism. I have never been prouder to be an American. That might seem like a strange confession in these dark times, when there is so much divisiveness in the country. We who love our country are often left embarrassed, enraged and exhausted. It’s as if some jokester slapped a going out of business sign on our country’s back and scribbled underneath: everything (we stand for) must go. It is during tumultuous times like these—times when we are challenged to defend our most sacred beliefs with more than trite slogans on caps—that real heroes rise up to face that challenge. John Carlos and Tommie Smith raising their black-gloved fists when receiving their medals at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics to protest injustice and poverty in the African-American community. In 1996, Nuggets guard Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf bowing his head in prayer during the national anthem as a protest against racism. These heroes remind us what true patriotism is: people caring more about protecting the principles of the Constitution than about their own careers, fame, money or even lives. Colin Kaepernick, the recipient of this year’s Sports Illustrated Muhammad Ali Legacy Award, is one such hero. What makes Colin so deserving of this award is that he fully embraced all of those risks in order to remind Americans about systemic racism. This is exactly what Muhammad Ali did when, at the height of his boxing career, he refused to be drafted during the Vietnam War. Ali knew that he was not at risk of being sent into combat and could have served as a celebrity soldier. Since Colin first declined to stand for the national anthem on Aug. 14, 2016, to call attention to the astounding number of unarmed African-Americans killed by police, the citizens have responded with both praise and condemnation, just as they always have whenever anyone exercises their right to free speech on a contentious topic. This is the same treatment bold Americans of conscience have always received. People rarely want to hear the truth when that truth reveals problems they don’t want to face. It’s easier to blame the messenger and ignore the message. He is forcing the country to continue to have a meaningful conversation about racial inequality when many want to pretend there is no problem. That’s why Colin has been vilified and glorified, ostracized and memorialized, demonized and idolized. Though supporters have come and gone, Colin has never wavered in his commitment. This selfless courage has inspired other athletes—from high school to professional ranks—across all sports, races and genders to make their voices heard. Sports Illustrated’s Muhammad Ali Legacy Award was created to honor individuals whose career in athletics has directly or indirectly impacted the world. On Nov. 30, it was reported that a group of about 40 NFL players and league officials had reached an agreement for the league to provide approximately $90 million between now and 2023 for activism endeavors important to African-American communities. It’s especially puzzling when they are accused of disrespecting the national anthem, which contains the lyrics, No refuge could save the hireling and the terror of flight, or the gloom of the grave, and was written by a man who referred to blacks as an inferior race of people. We praise our military for risking everything to make sure America lives up to the promises in the Constitution: equal opportunity and respect for all people. Upon hearing about the establishment of the award in his honor, Ali said, I know there will be a great tradition of champions to receive this award in the future, and I look forward to celebrating their spirit and accomplishments. Were my old friend still alive, I know he would be proud that Colin Kaepernick is continuing Ali’s tradition of being a selfless warrior for social justice. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar is a former recipient of the Sports Illustrateds Muhammad Ali Legacy Award. His new book Becoming Kareem: Growing Up On and Off the Court details his most influential mentors, including his lifelong friend, Muhammad Ali.
Donald Trump fully embraced his inner neocon before the United Nations today. He lashed out at North Korea, indicating that he was ready to ‘totally destroy’ it. He upbraided Iran as a corrupt and malignant regime that had taken America and its allies to the cleaners with the nuclear deal—’One of the worst and most one-sided transactions.’ And for good measure, he scoffed at various socialist regimes around the globe. The only term missing in his dyspeptic assessment of the carnage around the world was ‘axis of evil,’ the phrase that George W. Bush made famous when he decried Iran, North Korea and Iraq after the 9/11 attacks. The language he deployed was seldom less than apocalyptic. Like Bush, he embraced the tone of moral superiority: ‘If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph.’ When it was not chiliastic, Trump indulged in snark, referring to ‘Rocket Man’ as being on a ‘suicide mission.’ There can be no doubting that the regimes Trump referred to are as nasty as they come. But enmeshing America in an Asian land war would surpass any of the follies that it has experienced in the Middle East. Russia and China can only hope that Washington becomes stuck in another unwinnable war. What served America well during the cold war wasn’t overt confrontation such as in Vietnam, but the strategy of containment. Certainly Trump’s speech fitted with the desire he is now expressing to stage a massive military parade down Pennsylvania Avenue on 4 July to match, or even surpass, the festivities surrounding the Bastille Day parade that left him agog this past July in Paris, where he was the guest of Emmanuel Macron. One problem is that the avenue isn’t actually strong enough to withstand the weight of tanks rolling over it. He has apparently become enamoured by a vision of a militarised America that can set wrong aright abroad, whenever and wherever it pleases. His bellicosity is discordant, however, with the more isolationist America First doctrines that he brayed about during the presidential campaign. America First has been converted into a bellicose unilateralism. It was notable that during his speech at the UN, Trump veered from claiming, on the one hand, that it was imperative to respect the national sovereignty of individual nations to alleging, on the other, that there is no burking the necessity of taking out regimes that he, and he alone, deems inimical to American interests and values. What about the country that meddled with the 2016 American elections, thereby violating the precious sovereignty Trump dwelled upon? The most that can be hoped for with Trump’s speech is that it was simply more rodomontade. The danger, as so often with the old boy, isn’t if he’s insincere.
Early Thursday, the controversial Milwaukee County Sheriff, David Clarke resigned without any notice. The move was a surprising one but we should have known that President Trump had something to do with it. The former Wisconsin sheriff gave his resignation on Thursday to join the Trump administration. While Clarke submitted his letter of resignation Thursday afternoon, the letter did not include the details of why he quit and what was next for the sheriff. However, CNN reports that Clarke will join the Trump administration but what exactly he will be doing is still unknown. Trump has pegged him earlier this year for a role, but Clarke withdrew from consideration within a few days of the announcement. According to CNN: It’s unclear what job Clarke will take in the administration, but one of the sources said he’s expected to join the White House. Clarke likely won’t be offered a Senate-confirmed role because his nomination would face opposition from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. Oncologists Are Freaking Out After True Cause Of Cancer Is Released Back in May, Clarke publicly announced he’d accepted a position as an assistant secretary in the Department of Homeland Security. But according to sources, no official offer had been made to him at the time of his announcement and was forced to withdraw from consideration. Clarke is known for defending Trump against racial claims. After the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, many critics spoke about against Trump’s response and his failure to condemn white supremacy. Clarke went on Sean Hannity’s show to defend the President by stating that he doesn’t have a racist bone in his body. Perhaps, Clarke will be joining the Trump team just to do television appearance on Trump’s behalf to combat claims of racism and bigotry.
Oct 19, 2017 at 3:09 PM From Washington, D.C. to the NFL and Hollywood, America’s idols are tumbling down. For too long, we have wasted precious time and money worshipping these so-called social justice warrior hypocrites who continue to disappoint. Here’s to hoping all this disappointment will lead us back to what really matters, but don’t count on it. Huge swaths of Americans still bow at the altar of social justice. They believe government-forced charity will advance us to an utopian paradise where everyone enjoys the same outcome, despite personal effort, upbringing, unique abilities and education. Truth is, though, social justice is an oxymoron based on the false premise that the cure for injustice is leveling the playing field and redistributing wealth. As former Vice President Joe Biden once said, You may call it redistribution of wealth â€’ I just call it being fair. Marx hated religion, private property and Judeo-Christian values as much as leftists do today. That’s why you should bolt out of any place of worship that combines Jesus, social justice and the government in the same sentence. In his book, The Fatal Conceit: The Errors of Socialism, economist Friedrich Hayek nails what’s really at stake: The aim of socialism is no less than to affect a complete redesigning of our traditional morals, law and language â€’ and on this basis to stamp out the old order and the supposedly inexorable, unjustifiable conditions that prevent the institution of reason, fulfillment, true freedom and justice. Yesteryears’ creepy social justice warriors are now out of the closet and no longer hide their agenda. Instead, they give it a pink boa and parade their intentions to destroy capitalism, silence free speech and scrub Judeo-Christian values from the public square. They harp about injustice and claim only they can fix it, which is one of the most arrogant, egotistical piles of hogwash you’ll ever hear. All that, while they divide us into two groups, normal folks and them. They believe normal folks are about as smart as slugs, therefore incapable of coherent reasoning and self-care. To them, everyday Americans aren’t diamonds in the rough, they are pliable, moldable objects used to reshape America into a socialist nightmare like Venezuela. As I’ve said before, Democrats’ sacrosanct belief that the government was created to control how fairness is spread around is nothing more than a modern-day effort to reinvent Robin Hood, without all the chivalry and green tights. Those who romantically embrace the concept of social justice believe the misnomer that stealing from some and passing it on to those who should have had it in the first place will result in some sort of righteous leveling. Leftists don’t own the market on charity. Normal folks leave government out of the mix and combine their compassion with common sense. They bring food in one hand and a rifle in the other, knowing if they teach someone how to hunt, they’ll eat for a lifetime. In comparison, leftists bring Trader Joe’s bagels in one hand and a voter’s registration card in the other. Seizing the opportunity to convert their victims into non-thinking entitlement aficionados, they stop at nothing to meet an immediate need, then lead them by their noses to leftist-run metropolises where crime and government handouts abound. I know, the devil is always in the details, but I’ll go ahead and say it anyhow. Forced charity doesn’t bring about justice. Instead, it creates injustice when it stirs up animosity between the less fortunate and those being penalized, taxed, for their hard work under penalty of prosecution. In sharp contrast, there is a power in authentic generosity that no amount of government social-engineering could or will ever match. The social justice crowd should dust off the knees they protest with and try it sometime. ^ Susan Stamper Brown lives in Alaska and writes on culture, politics and current events.
Facebook Stephen C. Paddock has been identified as the lone shooter in the Las Vegas shooting that occurred at the Route 91 Harvest Festival, as reported by USA Today. The shooter is currently dead and suicide has been reported as the probable cause of death. Since news of the shooting broke, Paddock’s family has begun to speak out and his brother Eric, from Orlando, Florida, has been talking to the media. Eric Paddock Said His Brother Had No Religious Affiliations, Prior to ISIS Reports Not an avid gun guy at all…where the hell did he get automatic weapons? He has no military background, gunman’s brother says pic.twitter. — CBS News (@CBSNews) October 2, 2017 In an interview with Daily Mail, Eric Paddock said that his brother had no political or religious affiliation of which he was aware. Something happened, he snapped or something. Right now, we believe he was the sole aggressor and the scene is static. Unfortunately, ISIS accounts online are claiming Stephen C. Paddock actually converted to Islam months ago and the shooting was on their behalf. It is unclear if this is coming from actual ISIS propaganda accounts or random supporters, though Good Morning America has begun discussing the possibilities of this as well. The Associated Press has posted the above tweet, announcing this news. Stephen C. Paddock’s Family Is Dumbfounded Brother Eric Paddock tells Daily Mail that their family is confused and shocked. He explained: We know absolutely nothing, this is just, we are dumbfounded … We have absolutely no idea. Our condolences go to the victims and all their families. The Orlando Sentinel reports that, according to public records, much of Stephen C. Paddock’s family resides in Florida. Paddock’s Family Is Worried About Being Attacked Over the Incident Eric Paddock says that his 90-year-old mother, who lives close to him, is struggling to cope with the news and is in shock. Paddock told Daily Mail: Our family is OK, we’re sitting in here in our house hoping that everyone doesn’t attack us. My mother is 90 years old, lives down the street from me, we’re just completely dumbfounded. Like his brother was reported to be, according to his Facebook page, Eric Paddock is retired, like several of his family members in Florida. Stephen C. Paddock was living in Nevada at the time of the shooting. The Shooter and His Brother Were Not Very Close Stephen C. Paddock and his brother’s relationship was not strained, but they were not very close. Eric Paddock said that he and his brother lived on different coasts and that they did not speak very often. Eric Paddock said his brother was a regular at Las Vegas casinos, according to Good Morning America, and Stephen used to work as an accountant. In an interview with Las Vegas Review Journal, Paddock also said: We have no idea how this happened. It’s like an asteroid just fell on top of our family. He then added: There is no reason we can imagine why Stephen would do something like this. All we can do is send our condolences to the people who died. Paddock said that, as much as he knew, his brother had no known health or financial problems at the time of the shooting. This Was the Deadliest Shooting In US History With over 50 people dead and over 400 injured in the shooting, this is reported to be the deadliest shooting in American history. Shooter Stephen C. Paddock opened fire from a 32nd floor hotel room at the Mandalay Bay Hotel &amp; Casino.
TEHRAN, Iran (CNN) -- Attackers have mounted simultaneous gun and suicide bomb assaults on Irans parliament building and the tomb of the republics revolutionary founder in Tehran. At least seven people were killed and 35 others injured in the twin assaults, the semi-official Fars agency reported. The attacks were the most audacious State media reported that gunmen stormed the parliament building in Tehran and went on a shooting spree. At least one attacker detonated a suicide bomb. Five people died and at least 25 were injured there, Fars reported. At the same time, a gun and suicide bomb attack targeted the Ayatollah Khomeini mausoleum on the southern outskirts of the Iranian capital. Two people died and 10 were injured at the shrine, Fars said. A woman was arrested after the attack at the tomb, Fars reported, adding that another attacker has been surrounded by security officers. CNN has not independently verified the number of victims and it was not immediately clear whether the number of dead included the suicide bombers. The attackers were holding a number of hostages inside the highly-fortified parliament building, Press TV reported, as Iranian officials scrambled to establish who was behind the attacks or whether they were coordinated. A picture from semi-official Fars news agency shows a man lowering a young boy from a window of the parliament building onto the street as another man holding a gun watches over them from another window. The man with the gun is reportedly a policeman helping with the evacuation. Attacks of this nature are extremely rare in Iran, particularly in the highly-controlled capital where tourist and government sites are tightly policed. Gun ownership is heavily controlled in Iran, raising speculation that the attackers guns were smuggled into the country. Symbolic attack Irans parliament, also called the Islamic Consultative Assembly or Majlis, has 290 members. It has female members and has representatives for religious minorities including Christians, Zoroastrians and Jews. It is currently unclear how the attacker or attackers entered the parliament building, which has multiple security checkpoints. The location of the mausoleum attack is symbolic, targeting the tomb of the Islamic Republics founder and first supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. He led the revolution that overthrew the Shah in 1979 and was Irans leader for 10 years. The mausoleum is located around 25 kilometers (15 miles) from the parliament. Attacks rare Such attacks in Iran are rare, but the country -- with its largely Shiite population -- has been involved in military actions against Sunni terrorist groups such as ISIS, who regard Shiites as apostates. Last year, Irans government said it thwarted "one of the biggest plots" by terror groups targeting Tehran and other major cities during the month of Ramadan. This years holy month started almost two weeks ago on May 26. The last major attack in Iran was in 2010 when a Sunni extremist group carried out a suicide attack against a mosque in Sistan-Baluchistan killing 39 people. Kurdish groups have carried out small scale attacks against Iranian security forces in the north-west of the country.
Counselor to the President John Podesta speaks to the Center for American Progress’s Second Annual Policy Conference in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 19, 2014. ( AP Balce Ceneta) Following another dump of his personal emails, Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, is claiming that Russian hackers targeted his account to try and influence the presidential election -- and he suggested that those hackers tipped off a Trump advisor. CBS News correspondent Nancy Cordes reports that Podesta on Tuesday went step-by-step through all the contact Donald Trump and his campaign aides have had with Russian actors or with Wikileaks. He argued that it’s all circumstantial evidence pointing so some kind of secret understanding between Trump and the highest reaches of the Russian government. Podesta said the theft of 10 years worth of emails from his gmail account is now being investigated as part of the FBI’s larger probe into hacks at the Democratic National Committee (DNC). The U.S. intelligence community said on Friday that it is confident those hacks were directed by the Russian government. Russian interference in this election and their apparent attempt to influence it on behalf of Mr. Trump is, I think, of -- should be of utmost concern to all Americans, Podesta told reporters from the Clinton campaign plane. Podesta noted that long-time Trump confidant Roger Stone appeared to have advance notice of the hack, when Stone tweeted back in August: Trust me, it will soon be the Podesta’s time in the barrel. Stone also recently told Florida Republicans that he was in touch with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange. The emails are a revealing and sometimes embarrassing window into the workings of a major campaign. In one, now-interim DNC chair Donna Brazile (who was working for CNN) appears to slip the campaign a question Clinton was to be asked at a CNN town hall during her primary contest against Bernie Sanders. In another, Starbucks CEO and major Clinton donor Howard Schultz called the campaign stale and lacking the transparency that the American people.will need to trust and ultimately elect Clinton. Trump, for his part, has brushed off accusations that his words and his proposals seem to favor Putin. She doesn’t know if it’s the Russians doing the hacking, Trump said during Sunday’s presidential debate town hall. He also claimed I know nothing about the inner workings of Russia. In North Carolina, President Obama said Trump sounded much like a Russian dictator when he threatened to jail Clinton if he won. I frankly never thought I’d see the day when we had a major party candidate who would be promoting those kinds of notions, the president said at a Clinton campaign event. Podesta said he doesn’t know why Trump would be sympathetic to Russia, but he suggested that it might be his business dealings or his fascination with Vladimir Putin. He added that he expects the leaks to soon follow the pattern of other Russian-led hacks, where they begin by releasing real documents at first -- and then start releasing fake ones.
This post is the opinion of the the author and does not necessarily represent The Good Men Project. They are fundamentally what America is all about, really. This decision illuminates the fundamental character of this administration: cruel and mean. His tenure has but one goal: to eradicate everything and anything associated with Barack Obama. His one obvious competency is his capacity to give the middle finger to anyone that doesn’t kiss his butt. No need to regurgitate the stream of officials he’s fired or who’ve walked away from his administration. No need to replay senior members of his own party denouncing his behavior. While this sounds like a petty insult, the polls have been consistent: approximately 1/3rd of Americans have deplorable views about black people, people of color, LGBT, and immigrants. The only problem (for him) is, he’s actually done the reverse. This was alarming and deeply distressing for those who held President Obama as a champion of the environment, of civil rights reforms, and the people. President Obama’s grace and personal skills helped pave the way for a global relationship with the rest of the world. Look forward: 100 years from now, historians will look back to this era as the turning of the tide in American culture and politics. For all his publicity stunts and lust for fame, he probably didn’t think it would go this way. Because of his monumental effort to white-out Obama’s name from history, it will forever be impossible to mention Trump without talking about Barack Obama. History will show that trump would never have been possible if not for President Obama. To make matters worse, Obama’s a far more dignified, intelligent, and graceful man than most of us can ever hope to be. Who else could have enraged white supremacists this much? And who other than Trump could have emboldened them enough to take their hoods off and show their faces, marching while shouting racists chants with such shameless bravado? Speaking of slaves, these are the same people who, when polled said they thought slaves should never have been freed. The same people when polled said they thought white supremacists and Neo Nazis were being marginalized more than people of color. The same people who think the media is a bigger threat to democracy than white supremacists. These are the people Trump is playing to. As such, whenever he’s under fire – which is often – he goes on the campaign trail and holds a MAGA rally, where he (in the words of John McCain) fires up the crazies. He will be forever known as the president who stood for nothing more than giving a middle finger to President Obama. No matter how many Obama regulations and laws Trump rolls back, whether it be the Paris Accord or Cuba or DACA, history will cast a glorious light on Obama. Much of this will we can owe to the spotlight Trump gave him. Because of him, the rising up of this ugly shadow that we now see so clearly is firmly in our collective cross hairs. We’ll be grateful for how simple he made it for us to see our disease. We will thank him for ushering in a new dream because we were finally able to cut the illness out and begin our healing. The Secret Plan To Destroy Trumps Administration
Video Purchase Off-Site audio mp3 of Address Your browser does not support the audio element. [ One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. And so, weve come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of Gods children. This sweltering summer of the Negros legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. And those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. ** We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their self-hood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating: "For Whites Only."** "1 I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. And some of you have come from areas where your quest -- quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. And if America is to be a great nation, this must become true. But not only that: Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee. Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!3 ** = Content within red asterisks absent from this audio. Click player below or here for audio of the content in red asterisks. Your browser does not support the audio element. Quotation marks are excluded from part of this moment in the text because Kings rendering of Isaiah 40:4 does not precisely follow the KJV version from which he quotes (e.g., "hill" and "mountain" are reversed in the KJV). 3 At: - _at_last_from.htm Also in this database: Martin Luther King, Jr: A Time to Break Silence Audio Source: Linked directly to: /MLKDream Image #2 Source:. External Link: Page Updated: 11/14/17 U.S. Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Restricted, seek permission.
He is not a monster with long fangs, sharp claws, red eyes, and a tail who lives in your closet and comes out when the bedroom light is off. Throughout our time in America, the Black man has been demonized as this being who is a destructive, carnivorous, raping, and murderous beast who is a danger to every human on this planet. This belief has been the motivation for many acts of violence towards the Black man: beatings, stabbings, lynching, as well as legislation such as the Black Codes and the 1994 Crime Bill. Dr. Tommy J. Curry, professor of philosophy at Texas A&amp;M University, hopes to fight the perception of the Black boogie man with his new book, The Man-Not: Race, Class, Genre, and the Dilemma of Black Manhood. What struck me was not how well researched Curry’s theories on white supremacy were. Dr. Curry’s explanation of how white people cannot be ignorant about racism was mind altering. Instead of blaming it on no contact or lack of socialization, Curry pushes back and lays the responsibility on white culture itself, We know that white people have done the same type of behaviors. They always vitiated, secluded, and segregated Blackness. The main part of The Man-Not is broken down into five chapters. In On Mimesis and Men, Dr. Curry reveals the justification of enslaving and controlling the Black man and the origin of the Black Beast narrative. Dr. Curry highlights that many of the current theories being taught in colleges about African-American males are inaccurate and based on racist thought. Each chapter in The Man-Not presents a case of the African-American men and boys being in constant danger for existing. Imagine a world in which any individual who can be thought of as a victim of a Black male has the power to define him as a criminal. This is the world many Black males find themselves imprisoned within, too often defined by the accusations of others against them rather than their actual character. If someone accuses you of a crime, the thought is that you are guilty of said crime. If you look like a criminal, chances are you are one. The Book of Lives, an unpublished writing of Cleaver’s, spoke about homosexuality in prison and how, in Dr. Curry’s words, prisons are hedonistic warehouses. also talks about the irrational fear that whites possess towards Black people and the violence that Blackness attracts. Black men of all ages and sizes inspire fear. Through his raging appetite to rape women and elongated member, the Black man cannot be raped. The hyper-masculine stereotypes of Black males make it almost unfathomable for many onlookers to see Black men and boys as victims of women’s violence or rage, Dr. Curry says. I have written about this extensively, knowing that our life is perilous. In the land rife with anti-Black male sentiment, The Man-Not presents the case for why Black men have not only been historically a target of every type of violent attack and stereotype, but that because of their Black maleness, this eliminates any supposed privilege they would share with white men. African-American men constitute the lowest numbers of being students and instructors in college. They are also killed by police at a larger percentage than any other living group. This is factual work backed up by data that can be proven, and that is what is missing in conversations about race. I felt pride and satisfaction reading this book. ◊♦◊ Sign up for our Writing Prompts email to receive writing inspiration in your inbox twice per week. All Premium Members get to view The Good Men Project with NO ADS. You can be a part of every call, group, class, and community.
It’s for liberals to get that under their skin because it’s a biological FACT. It’s ridiculous for Liberals advocate for mentally ill people to have sex change surgeries. Our country has failed these people under Obama…but now President Trump is ENDING the politically correct BS. According to usa politics today: Had state-funded schools, colleges and universities not complied with the directive, it could put public institutions at risk of losing federal funding. As a result, U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor temporarily blocked the Obama directive nationwide in August. In his ruling, O’Connor said Title IX is not ambiguous about sex being defined as the biological and anatomical differences between male and female students as determined at their birth. Trump is going to bring back family values and Christian values to America again! It’s time this country to become conservative and normal again! We should stop with the promotion of liberal sick values, all that sick attitude, we have to be normal and sane and good people again! No more transgender, gay, abortions, drugs, crimes, illegals etc… We have to have law and order, strong police, strong border, strong military, strong churches, more freedom, less socialism, less communism, less utopia, lower taxes, less regulation! That is the Trump rule, that is the Trump philosophy, and we voted for that! And if he do that, America will be great again! GOD BLESS AMERICA AND PRESIDENT TRUMP! ( )
Scott Walker Tweeted a Really Great Point About Hillary Clinton and Obama (Photo by Joe Images) I disagree with Scott Walker on everything, except this. Scott Walker and I are rarely on the same side of political issues. Hes the Republican union-busting governor of Wisconsin and Im a bleeding-heart coastal liberal, and yet here we are coming together on one of the most important issues of the day. In some ways, its almost inspiring for its bipartisanship. /status/793450901092438017 Scott Walker is absolutely right. If you loved the last eight years with the president who currently has a 52 percent approval rating, then you should vote for Hillary Clinton. If youre happy that gay marriage is legal and that the White House has prioritized protecting the civil rights of marginalized groups, you should vote for Hillary Clinton. If youre glad that there are 16.5 million fewer uninsured Americans than there were eight years ago, then you should vote for Hillary Clinton. If you like that the economy has added over 10 million jobs since Barack Obama took office, you should vote for Hillary Clinton. If you like that the unemployment rate is well below historical norms, then you should vote for Hillary Clinton. If you like that Barack Obama is not a xenophobic orange goblin, you should vote for Hillary Clinton. WATCH This is The Decade You Should Be Looking to for Style Inspiration To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video WATCH This is The Decade You Should Be Looking to for Style Inspiration Share Tweet Email More. EMBED URL&lt;script async src="//player-backend.cnevids. /video/5b7aff716257107e59000004.js?iu=/3379/conde. "& gt;&lt;/script&gt; VIDEO URL /upgrade-your-style-this-is-the-decade-you-should-be-looking-to-for-style-inspiration Our bad! It looks like were experiencing playback issues. See what else is new Loaded: 0%Progress: 0% MuteVolume 0% Back Caption Options Close Settings Language English Font Size Small Medium Large Position Auto Bottom Top Sample Caption Text0:0:0:00 So, yeah. Again, Scott Walker makes a great point here.
©Kellepics @ pixabay.com Released under a Creative Commons License. When I was fourteen or sixteen – pardon me, but I don’t remember precisely, nor did these things make any impression in the international mainstream media – mom and I went to what was probably an illegal demonstration in downtown Porto, Portugal. No, I am not sure if it was illegal, or even honestly what the demonstration was for. Around that time it might have been for anything, including in support of whoever was the most right-wing candidate available. ( It was never further to the right than social democrat, and at one time it was the socialist candidate.) What I remember of that demonstration — one in a string of them — were the shots from above. If my memory serves me (and understand that after these many years things run together, but be patient, there’s a point to this), the demonstration was in Avenida dos Aliados, which despite the name is a plaza, hemmed in between tallish, twentieth century stone buildings. I’d guess from memory four or five stories high. The shots came from either the upper windows or the roof of one of these buildings. As someone in the crowd, I remember people startled, starting to move, eddies in the packed multitude, and then someone ahead of us going down, bloodied. I don’t know how I ended up running near a wall (we were pretty much in the center of the space) but I remember the moment a hand shot out, grabbed me, and pressed me flat against the wall. The person who grabbed me was my mom, and for the next few minutes, we resisted the crowd going by so close they might pull us with them. I don’t remember how many people were shot. Far more died in running down an underground passage, trying to get the train station. This is also why my blood boiled this morning when Hillary Clinton ran her ill-informed, loud mouth about the shooting in Las Vegas. We’ll leave alone the fact that the silencer doesn’t indeed render guns silent. Larry Correia covered that recently in a wonderful post at his blog. But even if it were possible to silence shots completely, would it be a bad thing, to prevent panic and the subsequent trampling? Unfortunately, Hillary Clinton wasn’t the only person speaking while wearing a stylish colon hat. Facebook and probably all the news media — I’m working on a book and at any rate have no intention of subjecting my blood pressure to that kind of hammering — are full of experts and observers and commenters talking about how this wouldn’t have happened if we had only banned private gun ownership.
Mining is one of the most destructive forces currently on the face of the planet. Mines, since the Industrial Era, have poisoned the environment and its workers alike. Gold mining is particularly destructive as its waste carries mercury and cyanide, which are typically used to extract gold from rock. These potent neurotoxins persist in the environment, poisoning the soil, and contaminate water supplies permanently. Gold mining also releases hundreds of tons of elemental mercury into the air annually. In addition, this type of mining is considered particularly destructive because of its wastefulness – over 20 tons of rock and soil must be treated and then dislodged to produce enough gold for a single ring. Recently, in the US, the toxic consequences of gold mining were on full display when the Environmental Protection Agency’s incompetence in cleaning out an abandoned gold mine turned the Animas river orange after heavy metal-laden mining waste drained into the river. Before this tragic accident, the EPA had reported that 40% of Western US watersheds had been permanently contaminated by mining. The camouflaged drones Credit – Rick Stevens Now that gold mining is not as common as it once was in the US, many other countries have been exploited by gold mining firms in its absence. Mining in Australia is a major industry with gold mining in Western Australia alone generating over $10 billion every year. However, some of the gold mines there have been experiencing a costly and unexpected problem as nature has apparently decided to fight back against its incursions. Drones that are used to survey the territory around gold mines are being destroyed by native wedge-tailed eagles. Rick Steven, a mine surveyor in the region, said that he had lost nine of his Trimble UX5 drones to eagles, which he labeled the natural enemy of drones. After the attacks began, Steven camouflaged his drones as baby eagles. However, the ruse only worked temporarily as 50 flights later the eagles realized the disguised drones were not what they seemed. Each of these drones costs an impressive $20,0, meaning that gold mining companies are losing money fast thanks to the eagles’ intervention. One of these companies, Gold Fields, has already lost over $100,0. This isn’t the first case of animals fighting back against the degradation of the environment in recent months. Less than a month ago, a herd of wild buffalo appeared out of nowhere in a seeming show of support to the Native Americans and their allies protesting the Dakota Access pipeline. The buffalo, who are considered sacred by the Sioux tribe, appeared by the thousands in a stampede that interrupted a confrontation between protestors and police. After the event, many speculated that the buffalo had appeared to show their solidarity with the protestors and indicated that nature was fighting back against exploitative corporate practices. Hopefully, these acts of defiance from the natural world will inspire people to follow their lead in taking a stand against the corporations destroying the planet. Please comment below and share this news! This article ( Eagles Destroy Corporate Drones, Cost Mining Company More Than $100,0) is free and open source. You have permission to republish this article under a Creative Commons license with attribution to the author and TrueActivist.com
Quick: what is the appropriate response to the stabbing death of a human? And lets just never mind the fact that the stabbing was completely random and unprovoked. Or that the victim just happened to be days away from graduating from Bowie State University and had recently been commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army and was preparing to move to Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, for training in defending the country against chemical attacks. What is important here, since it seems to be the only thing that is ever important in these situations, is that the victim - Richard Collins I, 23 - was Black. His murderer, Christopher Urbanski, 22, who saw fit to plunge a knife into Collinss chest for reasons no one apparently knows but the FBI is investigating as a "possible" (possible!) As a matter of fact, Urbanski, who was charged with assault and first- and second-degree murder and is being held without bail, is a member of the white supremacist Facebook group Alt-Reich: Nation, according to NBC 4 Washington. So yes, it is fair to say that it is certainly "possible" this was a hate crime. Ah, but the story doesnt end there, because why would it. After Collins died, a civilian employee of the Anne Arundel County Police Department in Maryland took to social media to praise the act. Welby Burgone, a police-academy recruit and obvious national treasure in Trumps America, worked in the Anne Arundel County Police Department’s communications department as a civilian employee. He was also a classmate and presumable "boy" of Urbanskis. When one Matt Worth posted on Twitter: "Fuck Yeah Sean! That’s what happens when n*as try and get frosty with an OG. To which Burgone replied with a meme that he apparently found funny, even though it objectively isnt funny under ANY circumstances, and certainly not when it refers to the slaying of a fellow human being. Save Thankfully, because sometimes the world isnt a completely awful place, the Anne Arundel Police Department also didnt find it funny and immediately suspended Burgone, issuing the following statement: "The actions of this employee are a betrayal of the values of the Anne Arundel County Police Department. Any employee who espouses or supports hateful or racist ideology will be held accountable and we will not allow the public’s trust in their police department to be eroded." This person is, however, still alive and freely roaming the streets being a good ol Murican and contributing to the "dialogue" on his possible pro-hate crime radical extremist white supremacist group, and will go on to find employment elsewhere and ban together with like-minded fragile white men and possibly even reproduce and indoctrinate his progeny into his viciously racist ideology, all the while hiding behind his God and guns, so, awesome. Honestly its hard to say what the most disturbing part of this story even is.
Credit: usasupreme.com It’s no secret that Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, has great disdain for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Shortly before the Democratic National Convention, the activist released incriminating email showing that the DNC had worked against Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders in favor of a Clinton nomination. Though that did much to shake up supporters of the American political system and infuriate supporters of Sanders, the Vermont Senator pledged his support to Clinton nonetheless. He cited that it was important to unify the party and prevent a Trump presidency. Rigged or not (and it’s most definitely rigged), is this truly the reason Bernie Sanders gave up the good fight? According to Assange, Bernie Sanders was threatened. During an interview with Australian journalist John Pilger, who is based in the United Kingdom, Assange disclosed some very concerning information. Pilger, who is working on a documentary about Assange, asked: Julian, we cut you off earlier when you were talking about what you felt were the most significant emails that you have released. Is there any last one that you’d like to mention? And also, do you have any thoughts on Bernie Sanders? I mean what is your opinion why Bernie Sanders drop out of the race? Assange responded: Look, I think—you know, we know how politics works in the United States. Whoever—whatever political party gets into government is going to merge with the bureaucracy pretty damn fast. It will be in a position where it has some levers in its hand. And Bernie Sanders was independent candidate trying to get the nomination trough the Democratic Party and if you ask me he did get the nomination, but he was threatened to drop out. Again, Assange has promised to release incriminating emails which are sure to result in Clinton’s indictment. He says he has evidence that Hillary made deals with an alleged Islamic state sponsor, as well as damning information about the Clinton Foundation. The Clinton campaign knows he’s on to her, too, which is why a strategist called for an assassination of Assange on TV. Of course, we’re very interested in revealing the truth about any candidate and yes we have some material about Bernie Sanders that will be published, Assange added. Please comment below and share this news! This article ( Julian Assange: This Is The REAL Reason Bernie Sanders Dropped Out Of The Race) is free and open source. You have permission to republish this article under a Creative Commons license with attribution to the author and TrueActivist.com
Michael Douglas of The Reach on the red carpet at the Princess of Wales Theatre during the Toronto International Film Festival in Toronto on Saturday September 6, 2014. Michael Network Michael Douglas has jumped ahead of allegations he masturbated in front of a former employee, insisting he’s not about to sit back and become the villain of a harassment story. The Basic Instinct star claims staff at both The Hollywood Reporter and Variety have reached out for feedback concerning accusations he pleasured himself in front of an employee three decades ago, and he’s keen to get ahead of the story, before he joins the likes of Harvey Weinstein, Louis C.K., Jeremy Piven, and Brett Ratner, among others, who have been accused of sexual misconduct. Douglas has turned to movie news website Deadline to set the story straight, stating, I felt the need to get ahead of this. Revealing that The Hollywood Reporter contacted him via his attorney regarding the woman’s claims that he used colourful language in front of her, spoke raunchily, or dirtily with friends of mine in private conversations on the phone. The woman’s third claim was that the actor masturbated in front of her, to which Douglas responds, I remembered this woman: sophisticated intelligent, good sense of humour, a novelist, who has written books and published novels and was an active feminist, and proud of it. Insisting she could have excused herself if she was offended by the language he used in private conversations, Douglas adds the allegations he blackballed the unnamed women are completely untrue. He adds that the claims he masturbated in front of her are a complete lie, fabrication. According to the actor, the journalist at The Hollywood Reporter agreed to sit on the story over the holidays, but in the New Year the publication got back in touch and said, ‘She’s (accuser) running around, possibly trying to give this story to other people, so we’re going to run with it’. I said, ‘I don’t think that’s justification, just because you might get scooped, to run a story like this’… I was floored, he continues. I didn’t know what to say and I tried to digest it. The accusations are minimal, except of course for the idea of masturbating in front of her. She supposedly had three friends who would back her up, that she had mentioned this to… How am I, in a 50 year career in this industry, dealing with an employee 33 years ago who perhaps is disgruntled that I let her go, even though I have never heard from her in 32 years. And a legitimate trade publication is going to try and print this story? There is no corroboration, just that they found out somebody else might run the story. Douglas calls the whole saga extremely painful, adding, I pride myself on my reputation in this business… I’m bewildered why, after 32 years, this is coming out, now. The part that hurt the worst is having to share something like this to your wife and your children. My kids are really upset, have to go to school worrying this is going to be in some article about me, being a sexual harasser. Douglas also states this isn’t the New Year I had anticipated, adding he’s worried the drama may affect upcoming work he has booked. I have jobs going with studios who all seem to be supportive at this time. I’m hurt, really hurt and offended and I wonder if people realize when you do something like this, it hurts a lot more than just one person. Play Video Play Loaded: 0% Progress: 0% Remaining Time -0:00 This is a modal window. But now his lawyers say police and elected…
President Trump holds a joint press conference with Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah of Kuwait. Trump holds joint press conference with Kuwaits leader, Amir . Trump on Thursday also seemingly touted his administrations success against ISIS compared with his predecessor, former President Obama. " What we do is kill ISIS," Trump said of Americas involvement in Syria. " We have done better in eight months in my presidency that was accomplished during the last eight years. President Trump on Thursday said it would be a "very sad day" for North Korea if the U.S. military needed to use force against it. " Military action would certainly be an option," he said during a press conference. " I would prefer not going the route of the military, but it could certainly happen." " Our military is stronger now," Trump added. " Each day new and beautiful equipment is delivered, by far the best in the world. But if we do use it on North Korea, it will be a very sad day for North Korea. I will tell you that North Korea is behaving very badly and its gotta stop." President Trump on Thursday praised Kuwait for its contributions to defeating the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other terrorist groups. " The United States is proud to have contributed to the liberation of Kuwait and the friendship we have built together in the years since," he said, referencing the First Gulf War from 1990 to 1991. " We also thank Kuwait for its humanitarian leadership and its partnership in the fight to destroy ISIS," Trump added in a joint press conference with Kuwaiti leader Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah. President Trump and Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, the leader of Kuwait, on Thursday are appearing together in a joint press conference after meeting in Washington, D.C. Thursdays meeting comes as Kuwait tries mediating an ongoing diplomatic crisis between Qatar and its Arab neighbors in the Middle East. Trump initially seemed to side with Saudi Arabia on the disagreement, but he then instructed Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to back the Kuwaiti mediation initiative. Tillerson and other U.S. diplomats have since traveled through the region to boost Kuwaits efforts, but the dispute has dragged on despite their efforts. Trump was also expected to discuss global efforts to isolate North Korea by halting employment of its guest workers during his talks with Al Sabah. Kuwait has about 6,0 North Korean guest works within its borders as worldwide tensions rise over the Asian nations pursuit of nuclear weapons. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Hide caption After months of criticism that GoDaddy was providing a platform for hate speech, the Web hosting company announced late Sunday that it will no longer house the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website that promotes white supremacist and white nationalist ideas. GoDaddy said in a tweet that Daily Stormer had been told it had 24 hours to move its website domain to another provider because it had violated the Web host’s terms of service. We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service. GoDaddy’s announcement was in response to an appeal from a Twitter user who called attention late Sunday to an online post by Daily Stormer founder Andrew Anglin. The post disparaged Heather Heyer, the 32-year-old woman killed Saturday in Charlottesville, police say, after a man plowed into a crowd with his vehicle. GoDaddy Drops White Supremacist Site Daily Stormer Google and GoDaddy give a neo-Nazi website the boot GoDaddy responded to The Daily Stormers vulgar article about Charlottesville victim Heather Heyer by banning the white supremacist site from its service. The Daily Stormer then tried to transfer its domain registration to Google. The suspect, James Alex Fields Jr., 20, of Ohio, has been charged with one count of second-degree murder, three counts of malicious wounding and another count related to the hit-and-run, police said. In the Daily Stormer post, Anglin characterized Heyer as dying in a road age incident. He said she was a drain on society and disparaged her appearance. Most people are glad she is dead, he wrote. ″ @GoDaddy you host The Daily Stormer - they posted this on their site, Twitter user Amy Siskind said in an appeal to the Web hosting company. Please retweet if you think this hate should be taken down &amp; banned. Siskind’s post was shared more than 5,0 times. GoDaddy spokesman Dan Race confirmed the company’s decision to boot the Daily Stormer in an email to The Washington Post. He said the article about Heyer violated GoDaddy’s terms of service, Race said. Given The Daily Stormer’s latest article comes on the immediate heels of a violent act, we believe this type of article could incite additional violence, which violates our terms of service, Race wrote in the email. Early Monday, just hours after GoDaddy made its announcement, a note appeared on the Daily’s Stormer’s website claiming it had been taken over by the hacking activist group Anonymous in the name of Heather Heyer a victim of white supremacist terrorism. But a Twitter account claiming to be linked to Anonymous said it could not confirm that the Daily Storm was hacked. The Daily Stormer and other websites characterized as espousing racist or anti-Semitic views have registered domain names with GoDaddy and use a privacy service called Domains by Proxy that is affiliated with GoDaddy, the Daily Beast reported last month. Critics have pushed GoDaddy to ban these sites from its service, arguing that providing them a platform enables hate speech. GoDaddy has previously said that the content, however tasteless and ignorant, is protected by the First Amendment. The company told the Daily Beast in July that a Daily Stormer article threatening to track down the family members of CNN staffers did not violate Domains by Proxy’s terms of service. We do not see a reason to take any action under our terms of service as does not promote or encourage violence against people, Ben Butler, GoDaddy’s director of network abuse, told The Daily Beast. While we detest the sentiment of this site and the article in question, we support First Amendment rights and, similar to the principles of free speech, that sometimes means allowing such tasteless, ignorant content. The Daily Stormer has been identified by the Southern Poverty Law Center as the top hate site in America, and publishes content disparaging Jewish people, people of color Muslims and women.
Gov. Pat McCrory Sunday called the weekend firebombing of a North Carolina Republican headquarters an attack on our democracy, while one GOP official called it an act of political terrorism. A swastika and Nazi Republicans get out of town or else were spray painted on the side of an adjacent building. Latest news by email The afternoons latest local news Recaptcha requires verification. Violence has no place in our society – but especially in our elections. … I will use every resource as governor to assist local authorities in this investigation. Hillsborough police and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were continuing to investigate. Democrats and independents outnumber Republicans 5-1. ALL SAFE IN ORANGE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA. We will not be silenced nor suppressed by this evil act. NCGOP (@NCGOP) October 16, 2016 While Democrats condemned the bombing, Trump tweeted: Animals representing Hillary Clinton and Dems in North Carolina just firebombed our office in Orange County because we are winning @NCGOP. Later, the party responded to Trump, Thank you Mr. @realDonaldTrump. We will pray for those who seek to harm us. The attack on the Orange County HQ @NCGOP office is horrific and unacceptable. Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 16, 2016 Thank you for your thoughts &amp; prayers, Sec. NCGOP (@NCGOP) October 16, 2016 North Carolina Democratic Party Chair Patsy Keever called the bombing outrageous. The North Carolina Democratic Party strongly condemns this attack, she said. Democratic Attorney General Roy Cooper tweeted, Violence has no place in our democracy and can not be tolerated. Dallas Woodhouse, executive director of the state GOP, called the bombing political terrorism. The office itself is a total loss, he said. The only thing important to us is that nobody was killed, and they very well could have been. Everyone in this country should be free to express their political viewpoints without fear for their own safety. That is what we all wonder, or else what, he said. Woodhouse said a van had already been brought in from Durham, and campaigners would go back to work in the heavily Democratic county. Volunteer Bob Randall was there to clean up Sunday. The idea is to intimidate us, to make us crawl back in the shadows, he said. The incident comes barely three weeks before an election marked by heightened tensions and passion on both sides. On Sunday the Bangor Daily News reported that about 20 cars were vandalized with spray paint outside a Saturday rally for GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump. Earlier this year violence broke out with protesters at a Trump rally in Chicago. The Rev. William J. Barber, president of the North Carolina NAACP, condemned the act. Woodhouse said he’s sending an advisory to county Republican offices across the state warning them to take extra caution.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said Saturday the second flight test of an intercontinental ballistic missile demonstrated his country can hit the U.S. According to analysts, North Koreas missiles would be capable of reaching Los Angeles, New York or Chicago. The Korean Central News Agency said Kim expressed "great satisfaction" with the test. The Pentagon confirmed Friday morning that North Korea launched another ballistic missile. " We are assessing and will have more information soon," said Navy Capt. Japanese government spokesperson Yoshihide Suga said the missile flew for roughly 45 minutes and landed off the Japanese coast in waters near Japan and the Korean Peninsula. Japanese public broadcaster NHK said the coast guard has issued safety warnings to aircraft and ships. The launch occurred one day after Congress approved a legislative package that includes economic sanctions against North Korea. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the projectile may have landed in the sea. He also confined that he has confirmed a meeting of the National Security Council. I have received information that North Korea once again conducted a missile firing. We will immediately analyze information and do our utmost to protect the safety of the Japanese people. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
You are very special, according to science. Throughout history, being left-handed has been viewed as a weakness or something to overcome. Heck, just 20 years ago, studies said that left-handed people die sooner and were prone to more accidents. It’s not your fault, lefties—you’re living in a world built for right-handed people! Simple household items like scissors and can openers are made for the right hand. Even writing can be more of a challenge for lefties. But studies have revealed some interesting facts about left-handedness. Read on for some fun facts about and great perks of being left-handed. Another theory is that if there is more testosterone in the womb, there’s a greater chance the baby will be left-handed. In one study, twins were twice as likely to be left-handed as compared to the rest of the world. But those numbers vary depending on culture and region being studied. Flickr | Dave Haygarth RELATED: Here are some more things you might not know about left-handed people: 3. Lefties Are More Likely To Be Good At Sports About 25 percent of all MLB players are left-handed (or southpaws). Interactive sports like tennis give lefties the upper hand. Since left-handed athletes’ movements are different, opponents aren’t used to reacting to them. Athletes are built on routines, and when you disrupt their routine, it throws off their game. Even with these questionable practices going on, the trait of left-handedness has not died. Instead of survival of the fittest, left-handedness is sort of a survival of the unexpected. For instance, in primitive cultures, 27 percent of people living in war-like regions were left-handed, compared to 3 percent in peaceful regions. Left-Handers Are Better Problem Solvers Scientists believe lefties are better at divergent thinking, or coming up with multiple solutions to a problem. As a result, they are more likely than right-handed counterparts to pursue careers in science, art and technology. Famous lefties who made names for themselves in those fields include Marie Curie, Ludwig Van Beethoven, Pablo Picasso, Bob Dylan, Paul McCartney, Bill Gates, Julia Roberts, Angelina Jolie, Nicole Kidman and Jean-Paul Gaultier—an impressive lineup! amfAR Los Angeles 2017 - Arrivals by Frazer Harrison / Getty Images Entertainment 6. Left-Handedness Can Be Predicted Before Birth Doctors can tell if a baby is left-handed through ultrasound. Lefties Are In Very Good Company While studies about whether left-handed people are officially better thinkers are inconclusive, there is anecdotal evidence that lefties are very smart. Famous left-handed brainiacs include Albert Einstein, President Barack Obama, Bill Gates, as mentioned above, and Neil Armstrong. Most Left-Handed People Are Born In Late Spring To Early Summer One study showed that most lefties were born between March and July. From this information, we can deduce that most lefties were conceived between June and October. As to what this indicates, well, researchers aren’t quite there yet—but it is an interesting finding nonetheless! Above All: Pink by 31246066@N04 / Ian Sane
Lena Dunham has always used sexuality to drive a conversation about real-world issues, and that was evident with her Halloween costume. On Monday night, the Girls creator and star posted on Instagram this photo of what she was dressing as for Halloween: That’s right, she went out as a Grabbed P—y, as she called it. She’s of course referring to the now-infamous remark Donald Trump made while shooting a segment for Access Hollywood back in 2005, which leaked in October. I know that hearing those words was painful for everybody, she told People of the inspiration behind the costume. I think women, and people of colour, and Muslims who have been searched at the airport, and transpeople who have been denied their rights, all know what it feels like to have their body taken from them. Those comments aren’t just about women — they were about everyone whose body is treated like the property of other people. NOW WATCH: Briefing videos Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.
Miss America Organization Chairman and CEO Sam Haskell speaks to the media during a press conference in 2014. ( AP Press of Atlantic City, Edward Lea) (Newser) – Miss America chairman and CEO Sam Haskell resigned Saturday—just a day after saying he wouldnt, the New York Daily News reports. He was joined by chairman Lynn Weidner, president and COO Josh Randle, and board member Tammy Haddad. The resignations of Miss America leadership come after HuffPo published internal emails Thursday that feature Haskell calling a former Miss America winner "fat and gross" and joking that hes one of very few people who havent had sex with her, according to USA Today. He also mused about renaming Miss America winners "c--ts," as per the Hollywood Reporter. On Friday, Haskell was suspended pending an investigation as 49 former Miss America winners signed a petition calling on pageant leadership to resign. Haskell remained adamant that he wouldnt resign over what he said were false accusations and a "mistake of words." In a statement, the Miss America Organization says Haskells resignation will take effect immediately. Randle and Weidner will stay on for the coming weeks to "facilitate a smooth transition." " The board thanks Lynn and Sam for many years of tireless work for, and significant financial support to, both the Miss America Organization and thousands of young women," the statement reads. In addition, the board says it "will be conducting an in-depth investigation" into the emails.
by Walter W. Murray, reporter The easily triggered college students of the left won’t let facts stand in the way of their false outrage. In a hilarious video that’s going viral, students at the University of California, Santa Barbara were hopping mad over President Donald Trump’s plan to send troops to the U.S.-Mexico border just 200 miles away… not knowing they were trashing former President Barack Obama, too. It is, like, a totally uncalled-for act of power. Sponsored: Did Russians hack the secret to eternal energy? Another came right out and admitted to Cabot Phillips of Campus Reform, who filmed it, that I’m not a huge fan of the military to begin with. The footage shows student after student steaming over the plan to increase border security. Take a look here — Americans In The Dark On Trumps Plan To End The U.S. Dollar Just one problem: The very act they’re livid over — the actions they blame on Trump — are the same exact moves made by former President Barack Obama, the hero of the young leftists. When that fact is dropped on them, it leaves the liberals stunned into silence. Scientists discover blood pressure-improving effects of 3 common foods In 2010, Obama sent up to 1,200 troops to the border as part of the $110 million Operation Phalanx. Those troops assisted border patrol with more than 17,0 apprehensions of people caught trying to cross illegally. They also intercepted massive amounts of drugs, including 56,342 pounds of marijuana with a street value of more than $100 million. Sponsored: Is this Ronald Reagan’s secret cancer cure? When told that Obama did the same thing, these young leftists were left stammering and one was literally speechless. They couldn’t approve the move because Trump did it — but they couldn’t condemn it anymore, either, since their hero did the same thing. That’s kind surprising, was the best response one of the students could manage. People have been so conditioned to think anytime they hear ‘President Trump’ they have to oppose it, Phillips observed in a Fox News interview. They’re taught in the classroom, they’re taught by society and the media, it must be horrible, it must be racist. California Gov. Jerry Brown has also authorized sending National Guard troops to the border both during the Obama administration and now again under Trump. While his most recent act also involved sending a sulky letter filled with textbook liberal gripes, he also was forced to admit that National Guard troops play an essential role in U.S. border security. Your funding for new staffing will allow the Guard to do what it does best: support operations targeting transnational criminal gangs, human traffickers and illegal firearm and drug smugglers along the border, the coast and throughout the state, Brown admitted in the letter to Trump. Combating these criminal threats are priorities for all Americans — Republicans and Democrats. For your eyes only (personal matter) [sponsored] Quote that letter to the left – tell them Trump said it – and you can bet they would take to the streets. Just don’t ask them who or what they’re resisting because clearly, they don’t know. — Walter W. Murray is a reporter for The Horn News. He is an outspoken conservative and a survival expert, and is the author of  America’s Final Warning. Watch This Breakthrough Tech Soar This Year!
The King County executive shared strong words as conservative, pro-Trump group known as Patriot Prayer descended on downtown Seattle in the wake of violent clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia. Demonstrators billed its freedom rally" supported freedom and free speech. We fought a Civil War against slavery, and you lost. Today, we stand united against the hateful rhetoric you have brought to our community. gt;&gt; See photos from the demonstration here Other Washington state leaders, including Sen. Patty Murray, condemned the actions and made a call for people to "stand up and fight back." Portland-based Patriot Prayer’s Facebook event on its rally didn’t give clear reasons on why people were demonstrating. Leader Joey Gibson started the rally with the Pledge of Allegiance and a prayer asking for peace on the West Coast. Speakers in the rally called the Charlottesville incident an act of terrorism, said that white supremacists were not welcome at their event, and asked anyone who attended for racist reasons to leave. He said that he was not at Westlake Park to preach hate. I have no idea what the hell they’re thinking about [this weekend] with the torches, David Duke and [Richard] Spencer, but I do not stand with that. I don’t understand what the hell happened yesterday. But they did it on purpose to tear apart this country, Gibson told KIRO Radio. Activists counterprotest freedom rally The freedom rally" message was met by boos in the crowd as counterprotesters with the solidarity met by hate demonstration converged. " We dont want fascism in America," said counter-protester Mave Bowman, who lives in Los Angeles. " We dont tolerate violence like what happened [this weekend] so this is our way of saying no to like the Trump regime." Counterprotesters marched from Denny Park through downtown Seattle to Westlake Park, but many of those protesters were prevented from reaching the "freedom rally" location. A barricade separated the groups of protesters in downtown Seattle. Police officers stood by dressed in black, riot gear. Police said they used pepper spray and blast balls to disperse crowds after fireworks were thrown at officers. Three people were arrested: a 40-year-old man for obstruction, a 37-year-old man for assault and a 25-year old man for assault. Why werent the demonstrators not allowed to get to Westlake Park?" Im not in a position to second-guess that at the moment." In Charlottesville over the weekend, neo-Nazis, skinheads, Ku Klux Klan members and other white nationalists gathered to "take America back" and oppose plans to remove a Confederate statue in the Virginia college town, and hundreds of other people came to protest the rally. The groups clashed in street brawls, with hundreds of people throwing punches, hurling water bottles and beating each other with sticks and shields. Eventually, a car rammed into a peaceful crowd of anti-white-nationalist protesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer. A Virginia State Police helicopter deployed in a large-scale response to the violence then crashed into the woods outside of town. President Donald Trump condemned what he called an "egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides," a statement that Democrats and some of the presidents fellow Republicans saw as equivocating about who was to blame. Some of the white nationalists at Saturdays rally cited Trumps victory, after a campaign of racially charged rhetoric, as validation for their beliefs. Some of the people protesting Sunday also point to the president and his campaign, saying they gave license to racist hatred that built into what happened in Charlottesville. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft on the outrage over the Clinton email investigation. With FBI Director James Comey announcing the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email scandal would be reopened, Former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft weighs in on the backlash as well as the political fallout as Election Day quickly approaches. Well, first of all, I’m deeply saddened by what’s happened by the Justice Department, Ashcroft told the FOX Business Network’s Neil Cavuto. Ashcroft then brought up claims that the Department of Justice blocked the FBI from using many of the investigative tools available to it in its investigation of the Clinton Foundation. There’s been a pervasive perversion of the Justice Department process over and over again and recent reports like in The Wall Street Journal that suggest that, not only suggest, allege that the Justice Department has denied investigative tools to be used in investigations related to the Clinton Foundation and frankly, the absence of the use of tools that should have been used in the initial investigation of Hillary Clinton. As a result, Ashcroft explained, The Justice Department sent the FBI in to investigate the Clinton Foundation with its hands tied behind its back. The fact that the investigation is being reopened now, so close to the election, was not a surprise to Ashcroft, but the result of stonewalling by Hillary Clinton and her staffers. This isn’t an October surprise in my judgment, this is the continuity of an issue which had been stonewalled, for which information had been requested which was not fully given and there was an erroneous statement earlier, much to the acclaim of the people who did the stonewalling, that the investigation was over. According to Ashcroft, it is unfair for the Clinton campaign to blame the FBI for the timing of the announcement when the campaign’s stonewalling is ultimately at fault due to its lack of transparency and delays in providing information requested. There’s a sense in which it’s a little disingenuous to be complaining about information coming out late when you are the cause of the information coming out late because of a significant stonewalling effort that’s been unfortunately facilitated by the way in which the Attorney General and others have allowed this particular investigation to be conducted. Ashcroft viewed this investigation as damaging the credibility of the Justice Department he once knew. This is not the Justice Department that I knew, in which I trusted, which I admired.
Daily Look 在这糟糕的一周结束做一个孩子 这一周实在太糟糕了，每天打开手机都会觉得这个世界已经疯了。无论国内还是国外都陷入了无止尽的混乱，糟糕的天气也并没有起到任何调剂的作用。在这一周的最后一天，穿的像一个无忧无虑的男孩子吧，整身牛仔布的 Loewe 配上一双拖鞋，用打扮来逃离这个疯狂的世界。 如果你足够看的开，也可以用这个皮拖鞋踩水。 设计 越来越弯的三星 近日，三星公布两项专利。其中一项是通过利用面板和电极组成的人造肌肉，让智能手机即使被折叠成了不同的外形，仍然可以利用内部控制器对电压进行控制，让手机可以被使用。另外一个折叠屏幕的专利，展示了双屏折叠的设计。 部分领域三星确实走在了前面，但是折叠的意义是？ 概念 奥迪核动力概念车 来自俄罗斯的汽车设计师 Grigory Gorin 设计了一款特别的奥迪概念车。在恐怖伊万的设计中，这款车搭载的是核动力系统。这款概念车的名称为 Mesarthim F-Tron Quattro，在后轴前方安装了一套核动力装置，该装置产生的电能为电池充电，最后由电池为电机供电。 开着这辆车上街，绝对所有人都绕着走。 商业 昨天下午，针对停止烧钱大战甚至进行合并的传言，滴滴和 UBER 中国都正式给予否认。滴滴官方表示，我们并无将 UBER 中国并入滴滴这种类似计划，也不对市场流言做过多评论。UBER 中国方面则表示对谣言和揣测不予置评。 也可能是因为名字的问题，步滴、滴步都够难听的了。 互联网 星巴克的彩虹色饮料 在不到一个月的时间里，星巴克的彩虹色饮料在互联网上相关话题数已经超过了百万，可是在菜单上我们却找不到它们。虽然星巴克的秘密菜单我们都很熟悉，但这次就连星巴克的咖啡师也一头雾水并且在社交平台上询问：我们该对一杯橙色特饮收多少钱？不过，看到彩虹饮料这么受欢迎后，星巴克还是在不久前提供了一份官方的配方。 星巴克最后看上去像是回应消费需求而给出的各种颜色饮料配方，也太快了吧？
Imgur | floridali Theres a sweet sense of justice when people get exactly what they had coming to them. All of these people are going to think twice next time they try something that turns us into the eye roll emoji. The girl who thought she was being so clever with bunny ears. Reddit | Nugkill But left their license plate on the car that they hit! Pretty sure they will never hit and run again. Reddit | Roxchic " Runs after hitting my car in parking lot. She gets caught because she ran out of GAS. Received two tickets as she only had a permit." Imgur | 33sphinx33 Little did they know they were stealing from a genius. Imgur | floridali But ended up pranking himself even more. What a rude awakening this person is in for. The person who thought to put a sign pointing to where the rock slides happen. The person who decided to obstruct the garbage truck. Reddit | h0pfenbrei Dont ever mess with garbage men! They definitely showed this person up and Im here for it. The woman who most certainly regrets her attitude. Reddit | akpenguin This has to be the worst feeling in the entire world for this woman, but also the best feeling for the dude. The jerk who thought he was above it all. Even driving a fancy car doesnt matter when it comes to cement. The guys who tried to knock someone off of their kayak with their boat. Yup, Id say that got exactly what they had coming. The guy who t-boned this car but left something important behind. This is why you dont ever hit and run, people! Imgur | MahoRhino And the person driving the Smart car was not going to deal with that today. She deserves him eating her candy if she cant find a better hiding spot. The person who did this terrible parking job. This is not the kind of bottle service you want. The person who parked their bike in a parking spot. This person stole from Walmart and is paying the price. theCHIVE Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement
At least 58 people are dead and 518 more wounded after a gunman opened fire on a country music festival in Las Vegas Sunday night. The assailant opened fire with a fully automatic weapon just as Jason Aldean was beginning his show at the Route 91 Harvest Festival. He can be seen running from stage as he, and the thousands in the crowd who came to see him, realized the horror of what was happening. Victims ran to safety, according to NBC News, during momentary breaks in the violence, at which point the shooter presumably reloaded. He was found on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Casino, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Sheriff Joseph Lombardo said, and shot dead. Right now we believe it’s a solo act, a lone wolf attacker, Lombardo told reporters. We are pretty confident there is no longer a threat. I still dont know what to say but wanted to let everyone know that Me and my Crew are safe." " My Thoughts and prayers go out to everyone involved tonight, he wrote, clearly as stunned and traumatized as anyone else. It hurts my heart that this would happen to anyone who was just coming out to enjoy what should have been a fun night. Aldean’s wife Brittany Kerr posted her own message on Instagram, saying, We are safe… our angels were definitely watching over us tonight." " No words for what happened," she added. " Witness accounts are what you would expect - unable to fully do justice to what happened as you read this, but terrifying nonetheless. Country star Jake Owen was one of the witnesses, having just finished his set and was still on stage when the shooting started. I was crouched down behind a cop car," he said. " There was blood on people and you could see a couple of people in the streets that looked like they had been shot, Owen added. People were standing around, then they hit the floor. Robyn Webb, who was at the concert along with her husband last night, told the newspaper, It just kept coming. Authorities, meanwhile, are searching for a 62-year-old woman named Marylou Danley, whom they believe is the gunman’s roommate. Police have searched a home in Mesquite, Nevada, 85 miles from Las Vegas, where it is believed the gunman lived with Danley. She is considered a person of interest in the case. UPDATE: Police have identified the assailant as Stephen Paddock, 64. He is shown above with his companion, Danley. Paddock is believed to have begun his attack around 10:00 pm local time and to have continued shooting for two hours. Police were reportedly able to locate Paddock quickly due to the smoke from his weapon setting off hotel fire detectors. Paddocks motives for the shooting remain unclear. Early reports indicate that he was not a member of any militant group. We have no idea what his belief system was, Sheriff Joseph Lombardo said during his press briefing early this morning. More details to follow as this shocking story develops . Expect that to tragically rise as the day progresses.
One lucky person is about to be a few hundred million dollars richer. A massive $447.8 million jackpot is up for grabs for the lucky person who picked the winning numbers. The winning numbers are: 20, 26, 32, 38, 58 and Powerball number: 3. The single winning Powerball ticket matching all six numbers was sold in Sun City, California. California Lottery officials said Sunday morning that the winning ticket was sold at Marietta Liquor &amp; Deli in southern Californias Riverside County, about 80 miles south of Los Angeles. Officials say the earliest the ticket could be redeemed is 8 a.m. Monday morning. The winner has one year to claim the prize. The retailer where the winning ticket was sold will receive a $1 million "retailer bonus." The estimated prize is based on a winner choosing an annuity, which pays off over 29 years. Both prize amounts would be before taxes are deducted. Powerball is played in 44 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Getty Images A former Secret Service officer who published an explosive tell-all from his days guarding the Bill and Hillary Clinton White House is planning to file a defamation lawsuit against his detractors, The Post has learned. A lawyer for Gary Byrne, whose book  Crisis of Character: A White House Secret Service Officer Discloses His Firsthand Experience with Hillary, Bill, and How They Operate, has sent notices to Media Matters for America and David Brock informing them that he intends to file suit. Officer Byrne will bring legal action against you, in your personal capacity, and against Media Matters, a lawyer for the former Secret Service officer wrote to Brock, a loyal Clinton ally and the founder of the liberal advocacy group Media Matters. The letter requests Brock and Media Matters to hold all records and communications associated with their communications regarding Byrne — including Any communication(s) between David Brock and The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton regarding the former Secret Service officer, suggesting there might be collusion between the campaign and her defenders. It also demands Brock immediately and publicly retract any statement or inference by yourself Media Matters to the effect that Officer Byrne was not fully truthful in recounting within ‘Crisis of Character’ details from any previous testimony. Additionally, Byrne’s attorney demanded a retraction for the utterly false statement(s) that Officer Byrne was not in close proximity to President William Jefferson Clinton. His lawyer states that some of our best witnesses to such immediacy are George Stephanopoulos, John Podesta, Leon Panetta, Bruce Lindsey, Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Clinton himself — who appear to have already confirmed … under oath … the regular proximity of Officer Byrne to the President for many years. Byrne claims the liberal advocacy group tried to hurt his credibility to defend the Clintons. Lawyers for Brock and Media Matters, Marc Elias and Ezra Reese, acknowledged receiving the letter from Byrne’s lawyer. Elias is also a lawyer for Hillary Clinton’s presidential election campaign. Byrne, who has been a surrogate for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, told The Post, We’re moving forward with the suit regardless of whether retractions are issued. My goal here is to get the message out – that everything in my book is true. Byrne has sent a similar letter — and has threatened similar legal action — to Jan Gilhooly, president of the Association of Former Agents of the United States Secret Service, who also questioned the claims made in Crisis of Character. Byrne expects the legal filings to come after the November presidential election.
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — The U.S. government improperly spent $84 million to help plan for a massive project to ship Northern California water to Southern California, a new federal audit said. Federal officials gave $84 million to help finance the water districts planning, backed by Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, to build two giant water tunnels to re-engineer the states water system, according to the audit by the inspector generals office of the U.S. Interior Department obtained by The Associated Press. By California law and by an agreement by the water districts, California water districts and not federal taxpayers are supposed to bear the costs of the $16 billion project, the audit said. The proposed tunnels are part of Browns decadeslong push for a project that would more readily carry water from green Northern California south, mainly for use by cities and farms in central and Southern California. Voters rejected an early version of the proposal in a statewide vote in the 1980s. California water districts are making final decisions on whether to go ahead with the controversial project. The inspector general says federal authorities did not fully disclose to Congress or others that it was covering much of the cost of the projects planning. The actions by the Bureau of Reclamation, which is part of the Interior Department, mean that federal taxpayers paid a third of the cost of the projects planning up to 2016, the audit said. Central Valley water districts that were supposed to pay 50 percent of the tunnels planning costs contributed only 18 percent, the audit found. California officials, meanwhile, have consistently said no taxpayer money was being spent on the project. Asked if auditors wanted contractors to repay the money, Interior spokeswoman Nancy DiPaolo said, "We certainly hope so." That decision was up to California, she said. Thomas Birmingham, general manager of the sprawling Central Valley rural water district Westlands, which received one of the largest shares from the government, said he knew of nothing about the arrangement that was "inconsistent with either state or federal law." " The state was aware of it," Birmingham said of the federal payments. " No one indicated this was somehow a violation of the letter or spirit of the agreement" guiding the costs of the project. Birmingham said water districts would be responsible for reimbursing the federal money if the project went forward and benefited those districts. Spokespeople for the Bureau of Reclamation, Browns office and the state Department of Water Resources either had no immediate comment Friday or did not respond to requests for comment. The audits findings were "appalling," said Doug Obegi of the Natural Resources Defense Council environmental group, which has opposed the project on the grounds that it would speed up the extinction of several endangered native species. " The public is paying for what a private party is supposed to pay for," Obegi said. " That is taking the publics money, and thats not OK." A former lobbyist for Westlands, David Bernhardt, has been a top official in the Interior Department under the George W. Bush administration and again under Trump. Critics long have said Westlands has benefited from its ties to the federal agency, which the water district and Interior deny. " I wish I were surprised to learn that the Westlands Water District colluded with the Interior Department to hide millions of dollars in unauthorized payments from Congress, but this is typical of the longstanding and incestuous relationship between the largest irrigation district in the country and its federal patrons," said U.S. Rep. Jared Huffman, a California Democrat.
Barack and Michelle Obama are speaking out about the Harvey Weinstein sexual harassment scandal after their daughter, Malia, interned for his company. Barack Obama, 56, and wife Michelle Obama, 53, finally released an official statement on Oct. 10, about the Harvey Weinstein sexual harassment accusations and it’s not pretty, according to media outlets such as TMZ. Michelle and I have been disgusted by the recent reports about Harvey Weinstein, the statement reads. Any man who demeans and degrades women in such fashion needs to be condemned and held accountable, regardless of wealth or status. The former U.S. president and first lady’s daughter Malia Obama, 19, interned at Harvey’s company, The Weinstein Company, before attending Harvard University and Harvey even donated $680, 0 for Barack’s 2012 re-election campaign. We should celebrate the courage of women who have come forward to tell these painful stories, the statement continued. And we all need to build a culture – including by empowering our girls and teaching our boys decency and respect – so we can make such behavior less prevalent in the future. Barack and Michelle’s statement comes just hours after a video message from the Republican National Committee, first reported by Daily Mail, condemned him for his silence in the case. Harvey has been accused of sexually harassing multiple women including many actresses he’s worked withsuch as A shley Judd, 49. The film producer continues to make headlines from the unfortunate situation with the most recent one involving an announcement that his wife, Georgina Chapman, 41, is leaving him. It’s been five days since the first allegations surfaced and since then, more and more women are coming forward with their own shocking stories. Harvey’s made various iconic films over the years, including Pulp Fiction, The Crying Game, and Shakespeare in Love. HollywoodLifers, what do you think about the Obamas’ opinion on the Harvey Weinstein scandal?
Yesterday, Twitter announced that it would be testing out a new feature — changing its character limit from 140 to 280. No one likes change, and as much as everyone makes fun of Twitter, we want it to stay the same. Here are some of the best reactions to Twitter’s proposed character limit change! old twitter: send nudes bb new 280 char twitter: dearest Penelope, its been a harsh winters time since thou booty has graced thy screen — Licensed Esthetician (@SortaBad) September 26, 2017 2. me: i will never tweet 280 charactersalso me: (checking twitter every minute) why havent they given me 280 characters, ddo i not deserve it — jomny sun (@jonnysun) September 27, 2017 3. ⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⣦⣤⣀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢡⣤⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠠⠜⢾⡟⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠹⠿⠃⠄⠀⠀⠈⠀⠉⠉⠑⠀⠀⠠⢈⣆⠀⠀⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢶⣷⠃⢵⠐⠰⣷⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⢟⣽⣆⠀⢃⠰⣾⣶⣤⡼⢳⣦⣤⣴⣾⣿⣿⠞⠀⠈⠉⠉⠛⠛⠉⠉⠉⠙⠁⠀⠀⡐⠘⣿⣿⣯⠿⠛⣿⡄⠀⠀⠁⢀⣄⣄⣠⡥⠔⣻⡇⠀⠀⠀⠘⣛⣿⣟⣖⢭⣿⡇⠀⠀⢀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣿⣽⡇⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⡇⣿⣿⣿⣇⠀⠀⠀⢹⣿⣿⡀⠸⣿⣿⡏⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⠇⠀⣿⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠈⣿⣿⠀⠀⢸⣿⡿⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⠀⠀⢀⣿⡇⠀⣠⣴⣿⡿⠟⠀⠀⢸⣿⣷⠀⠉⠉⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈you know i had to do it to em — ? If youre upset about the 280 characters thing, just imagine what John Kelly must be thinking — Amir Tibon (@amirtibon) September 26, 2017 5. ┳┻|┻┳| ┳┻|┻┳| ┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻| ┻┳| ┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻|┻┳|┳┻| _┻┳| •.•) this seems excessive┳┻|⊂ﾉ┻┳| — dan mentos (@DanMentos) September 27, 2017 6. a better idea is to instead start taking away one character at a time, every night, until no one can tweet anymore — pilot (@pilotbacon) September 26, 2017 7. The 280-character limit is a terrible idea. The whole beauty of Twitter is that it forces you to express your ideas concisely (1/47) — James Poniewozik (@poniewozik) September 26, 2017 8. the world: trump gonna get us kilt via tweets twitter: ok heres more characters! — Desus Nice (@desusnice) September 26, 2017 9. twitter: tweets in english are harder to fit in 140 charactersme: pic.twitter. 4M4gl3 — bubtebdi durect (@xenobIade2) September 26, 2017 10. looking forward to being able to do the big tweets pic.twitter. 6XDg — jon hendren (@fart) September 27, 2017 11. ( Okay, hear me out, maybe the new character limit will destroy twitter and well all finally be free — Sarah (@thetigersez) September 27, 2017 13. literally my only talent was being able to think of tweets exactly 140 characters long. i dont know if I will be able to alter this to 280. — @realDonaldTrump has been wrecking America 140 characters at a time. Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) September 27, 2017 15. Prediction: Every 280 character tweet will be a reply from a man to a woman and begin with the word "Actually." — ((( OhNoSheTwitnt))) (@OhNoSheTwitnt) September 27, 2017 17. * Ryan Nanni (@celebrityhottub) September 26, 2017 20. 0YpU1V — Hector Diaz (@iamHectorDiaz) September 26, 2017 21. bitch just cause you can do 280 characters doesnt mean you SHOULD, if your tweet is long im SKIPPIN IT, boy bye — Tyler Oakley (@tyleroakley) September 27, 2017 26. TWITTER USERS: It would be nice if you stopped people making death threats. TWITTER: OK, but what if those death threats could be LONGER? — Mike Drucker (@MikeDrucker) September 26, 2017
The FBI has discovered a batch of new emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state, according to a letter FBI Director James Comey sent to the chairs of pertinent Congressional and Senate committees Friday. In his letter, the FBI director also warned the committee chairs, I cannot predict how long it will take us to complete this additional work. Investigators are looking into whether they contain classified information. Clinton said she is confident the conclusion reached in July about her emails will not change and downplayed its potential effect on the election. I think people a long time ago made up their minds about the emails, she said. Asked if Abedin had shared with her what might have been discovered, Clinton said she had no information and we don’t know what to believe. We’ve heard these rumors, we don’t know what to believe, and I’m sure there are going to be even more rumors, which is why it is incumbent on the FBI to tell us what is going on, Clinton said. Right now, you’re guess is as good as mine, and that’s not good enough. She just smiled and waved, ignoring the questions. House Oversight Committee chair Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, announced the FBI’s discovery of the emails. Case reopened— Jason Chaffetz (@jasoninthehouse) October 28, 2016 Pegues confirmed Friday that the new batch of emails was discovered during the investigation into the August sexting scandal of Anthony Weiner, the husband of top Clinton aide Huma Abedin, after the agency seized electronic devices belonging to the couple. Weiner was alleged to be exchanging sexually explicit messages with a 15-year-old girl. Comey’s letter to Congress informed lawmakers that he was supplementing his previous testimony on the matter of the investigation, which was completed in July. At the time, Comey recommended no charges against Hillary Clinton, which was accepted by the Justice Department. Following the release of the FBI letter, House Speaker Paul Ryan reiterated his call for the Director of National Intelligence to stop giving classified briefings to Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said Friday that the Department is trying to figure out what these emails pertain to and whether they’re relevant to Clinton’s time as secretary of state. Toner said they can’t make any assumptions that they are, but they may be. If so, Toner said the State Department is ready to cooperate with the FBI, but as of Friday afternoon, the department had not been contacted by the agency. Lock her up, as Trump declared, Hillary Clinton’s corruption is on a scale we have never seen before. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office. Trump also commended the FBI for now being willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made in announcing its investigation was complete. This was a grave miscarriage of justice that the American people fully understood and it is everybody’s hope that it is about to be corrected, he said. Later, Trump said of the system he has claimed to be rigged for several weeks: It might be not be as rigged as I thought. I think they’re going to right the ship, folks. John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign chair, called on Comey in a statement to immediately provide the American public more information than is contained in the letter sent to Senate and House committee chairmen. The Director owes it to the American people to immediately provide the full details of what he is now examining. We are confident this will not produce any conclusions different from the one the FBI reached in July. The timing of the revelation has angered some former Department of Justice employees. Former spokesman Matthew Miller called the disclosure inappropriate on Twitter and suggested that Comey had broken a cardinal rule: But todays disclosure might be worst abuse yet. DOJ goes out of its way to avoid publicly discussing investigations close to election.
August 2016 was the warmest August on record for global surface combined, according to NOAA. This is the 16th consecutive month that a new, record high global temperature average has been set. Fourteen of the fifteen highest monthly global temperature anomalies have occurred since February 2015. C above the 20th century average, breaking the old August record of +0.87 just set in August of 2015. In terms of land surface only, August 2016 averaged 1.29 deg. C. above the 20th century average, breaking the old record of +1.10 deg. For ocean surface, August 2016 was the 2nd warmest August on record averaging 0.77 deg. The warmest August on record occurred last year (+0.79). For the record, the El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) was neutral for the month of August. Weak La Nina or neutral conditions are predicted for the remainder of this year. ---------- Warmest June-August period on record The June-August 2016 period was the warmest such period on record, according to NOAA. C. above the 20th century average, beating out the record of +0.85 set in 2015. The 10 highest three-month global temperature departures in the record have all occurred since August-October 2015. ------------- Warmest January-August period on record globally The January-August 2016 period was the warmest such period on record, according to NOAA. So far this year, the average temperature anomaly was +1.01 deg. C., which easily beat out the previous record of +0.85 set last year. Based on these numbers I conclude that 2016 will easily end up as the warmest year on record globally. ------ The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of AccuWeather, Inc. or AccuWeather.com
Butler County Sheriff requests ICE to shut down business that hire illegal immigrants. ( WKRC) BUTLER COUNTY, Ohio (WKRC) - Butler County Sheriff Richard Jones has written a letter to President Trump, asking him to send Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to Ohio, specifically to his county. In the letter, Sheriff Jones also calls for ICE to shut down businesses that hire illegal immigrants. He asks President Trump to come to Butler County, sit down with him and work on a plan to start "Work Place Enforcement". Sheriff Jones says hes also tired of illegal immigrants committing crimes here, bringing in drugs and risking the health and safety of citizens "every day that this country allows them to be here". Sheriff Jones spoke at a Trump rally in Sharonville last July.
Rio Arriba County Fire Marshal Carlos Esquibel (center) watches an ambulance, Dec. 22, after a man in a red Ford Edge was reported to be overdosing off Riverside Drive. The man was transported to the Española Hospital and his car was towed. ( SUNfoto by Wheeler Cowperthwaite) The police blotter is published to give readers an abridged look at criminal activity in their community and neighborhoods. 4:14 p.m. A Chama Middle School caller said her mother’s car window was broken. She refused to give dispatchers her name. The daughter then called dispatchers and said she had an argument with her mother and the mother falsely claimed she had been kidnapped. She said he borrowed it at 9:40 a.m. and said he would be back within five minutes. She said they left once they heard someone was going to call the police. He said this is the second or third time it’s happened. The employees told the man they needed to close the restaurant, but he still refused to leave and told them to go ahead and call the police. 5:54 p.m. A State Road 215 caller said her son was riding his dirt bike home from his grandpa’s house when a truck tried to run over him. An Española police officer told her to leave. Too much vodka Dec. 22 6:35 a.m. A County Road 158 caller said she tried to start her car and found that it would not start and her radio and other things were missing. She said they took everything, but left the baby Jesus. Noon An Española Elementary School caller said a fifth grade student broke a window. She then found them next door after she learned the former tenant had given them to the neighbor. 8:43 p.m. A Private Drive caller said an 18-year-old man appeared to be overdosing, he was unconscious and snoring. Sheriff’s deputies administered the overdose-reversing drug Narcan. 11:08 p.m. A Camino Cielo Grande caller said her neighbors were yelling and breaking things and they had a 15-year-old child in the house. He said it appeared rocks had been thrown through the windows. She said she did not know who it was and did not want to check and see. 4:06 p.m. A Private Drive in Alcalde caller said his neighbor came to his house and broke his kitchen window. 6:38 p.m. A North Riverside Drive caller said a man was passed out on the cement in front of a business. The man was transported by ambulance to the emergency room. Instead of leaving, the man laid down on the ground and complained he could not walk due to severe leg pain. He was transported to the Española Hospital. The man was transported to the Española Hospital, alive. 6:37 p.m. A State Road 399 caller said he needed an ambulance because he fell in a hole while playing with his dog. 8:08 p.m. A Fairview Lane caller said a woman threw him out of the house and stole his money, as well as his shoes and hat. He did not want to press charges against her.
In June 2008, when she conceded the Democratic presidential race to Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton famously noted that "we werent able to shatter that highest, hardest glass ceiling this time." More than eight years later, she will literally be standing underneath one as the final votes are counted on Nov. 8. On Wednesday, the Clinton campaign announced her election night party would be held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan. The building has a literal glass ceiling. Let’s hope the campaign has insurance for it if she wins. Reminder: The Javits Center, where Hillary Clinton is holding her election night party, has a literal glass ceiling pic.twitter. 9cAc— Elliot Smilowitz (@SmiloTweets) October 26, 2016 The Javits Center, which opened in 1986, is the busiest convention center in the country and contains a massive 840,0 square feet of exhibition space. The center just finished a $460 million renovation. The election event will be for supporters and volunteers.
A racial slur was found on a boys bathroom stall at a Kansas City, Kan., school, according to reports. Kill all n------, someone wrote on a stall at Piper High School, Fox4 reported. The message was discovered Wednesday, and a special assembly was held Thursday to address the issue, according to KSHB. In response to the incident, Fox4 reported some students planned to protest for the first 20 minutes of class on Friday. Todays top news by email The local news you need to start your day Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms Piper High administrators could not immediately be reached Friday morning. It doesn’t matter what color our skin is, Delaney Degroot, a freshman, told KSHB. Piper High Principal John Nguyen sent an email home to parents addressing the incident, Fox4 reported. PHS maintains a zero-tolerance stance regarding racist, discriminatory, and threatening comments, he wrote. School administration is working diligently with our School Resource Officer in conducting an aggressive investigation to determine the origin of the comment. At this time, the investigation has revealed no credible safety threat whatsoever to PHS students or staff. About a year ago, a similar incident upset students, according to Fox4.
Donald Trump (Image by YouTube, Channel: holmesclips) Permission Details DMCA Donald Trump continued his campaign of incendiary statements over the weekend, threatening to launch a war with North Korea that could unleash a nuclear catastrophe. This "hasnt worked," he wrote, adding: "Sorry, but only one thing will work!" Asked later to elaborate on what he meant, Trump replied, "Youll figure that out pretty soon." These threats came three weeks after Trumps tirade at the United Nations General Assembly September 19, when he declared that the US was "ready, willing, and able" to "totally destroy" North Korea, a country of 25 million people. Four days later, Trump threatened to assassinate the North Korean leader. If the North Korean foreign ministers speech at the UN "echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man [Kim Jong-Un]," Trump wrote, "they wont be around much longer!" Asked what storm he was talking about, Trump would only say, "Youll find out soon." To the extent that Trumps words are interpreted as a genuine expression of the policy and plans of the United States government, the inescapable conclusion is that the world stands on the brink of the most devastating military conflict since the outbreak of World War II. The public declarations emanating from the White House are being reported by the media as if they will have no consequences. The thinking seems to be that Trump doesnt mean what he says. The consequences of a war would prove to be so catastrophic that Trump is simply bluffing. With Trump having publicly declared that he will destroy North Korea and that the doomsday hour is fast approaching, how will the Pyongyang government interpret American military actions near the borders of its country? Will it conclude that it has no choice but to assume the worst and initiate a military strike against South Korea? From a purely legal standpoint, North Korea can claim, in light of Trumps threats, that such action on its part would be an act of self-defense, a legitimate response to an imminent military threat. Trump is, after all, the commander in chief of the American military. He has the power -- which Congress has shown no interest in challenging -- to order military actions. A US attack on North Korea would pose an overwhelming threat to China. The last time the US military crossed the border into North Korea, the Chinese responded with a massive military counterattack. There is no reason to believe that the present-day regime in Beijing would remain passive in the face of a new US invasion of North Korea. Beijings reaction would be influenced by the already tense conditions that exist in the Asia-Pacific region. The purpose has been to militarily encircle China, which dominant sections of the ruling class consider the major competitor to US interests. Over the weekend, Chinas main regional competitor, Japan, declared that it fully backed Trumps threats against North Korea. Nor would it be possible for Europe and Latin America, which have their own interests in Asia, to stand aside. Little has appeared in the American media about the consequences of war with North Korea. An article in Newsweek in April concluded that a war would leave one million people dead, assuming that it did not involve the use of nuclear weapons or any other outside powers. In a comment in the Los Angeles Times last month, retired Air Force Brigadier General Rob Givens calculated that 20,0 South Koreans would die every day in a war on the peninsula, even without the use of nuclear weapons. If the war were to develop into a nuclear exchange -- as the Trump administration has threatened -- the consequences would be catastrophic. But it is equally plausible," the article concluded, "that Mr. Trump was merely being theatrical, using the backdrop of military officers to stir up some drama." These divisions, however, are tactical in character. A war with Korea could break out at any time.
Members of a Houston mosque barricaded themselves inside and refused to help people evacuating Hurricane Harvey. On 31 August 2017, repeat offender TheLastLineOfDefense.com published a  report on the Ramashan Mosque in Houston, which according to them, refused to help people seeking relief from the flooding caused by Hurricane Harvey: The building can easily hold over 500 people, much more than the 27 currently inside. But the imam of the mosque, Aswat Turads, says that they absolutely cannot accept any non-Muslim people because it’s against their religion. The Quran is very clear, Turads told local news radio station WXTX, we are forbidden from helping infidels, no matter how much we want to. If we allow Christians and Jews inside, we are violating a fundamental tenant of Islam and will be punished by Allah. The original version of the story (and an equally fake follow-up post) also included a picture of Canadian imam Ibrahim Hindy, who publicly refuted the story, saying that not only was he in Saudi Arabia completing the hajj Islamic pilgrimage at the time the massive storm hit Texas, he has never been to that state in his life at all: The site quickly swapped out its photographs in response. The current version of the story now includes an Associated Press picture of a Lebanese cleric, Ahmad al-Assir, who was arrested by authorities in his country in August 2015. This story is a complete fabrication, and neither the Ramashan Mosque or Aswat Turads exist. The radio station named in the article, WXTX-FM, is actually based out of Columbus, Georgia and not Texas. TheLastLineOfDefense.com is a known purveyor of fake news stories. Its disclaimer reads: America’s Last Line of Defense is a satirical publication that may sometimes appear to be telling the truth. We present fiction as fact and our sources don’t actually exist. Names that represent actual people and places are purely coincidental and all images should be considered altered and do not in any way depict reality. In other words, if you believe this crap you’re a real dumbass. Despite its complete lack of any factual content, the hoax story was shared thousands of times; it was also picked up and run verbatim as true by other web sites. In reality, several Houston mosques have taken people in and performed volunteer food and donation drives to help victims of the storm. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Robert Since Facebook made it harder for publishers to spread their articles organically, various types of sponsored posts have begun to show up with more prominence. This has gotten a bit confusing for users, as its hard to tell which underlying articles are pieces of journalism and which are advertisements. If a post had a little "sponsored" label on it, that was a red flag telling you, "Hey, a brand paid for this, you should treat it as an advertisement." One of the main complaints I heard from folks on the publisher side was that Mark Zuckerberg didnt actually want less publisher content on Facebook: He wanted publishers to pay him to help their articles spread. " Facebook is now pay to play," was a lament I heard many times. And that is what many publishers - from The New Yorker, to The Wall Street Journal, to Marie Claire (and Business Insider) - have been doing for certain articles, with more frequency since the algorithm change. They have paid Facebook to help their editorial, journalistic articles spread. When you follow the link to the publishers website, the article isnt a piece of "sponsored content," even though the Facebook post is labeled "sponsored." Traditionally, media companies have worked to separate advertisements from journalistic writing (and to properly label "advertorial" content). Positive articles about companies like Uber (for instance) are being turned into promotional ads, sometimes without the media organizations being made aware. It can be hard for readers to wade through, so we decided to break it down for you in a way that is easy to digest. Well walk you through the various types of "sponsored" posts on Facebook and what they mean. When the outlet pays to spread it Lets start with the one I just mentioned: Purely editorial articles that are being promoted with "sponsored" posts on Facebook. This basically happens when a publisher wants to boost an article it thinks has viral potential, and can bring the publisher in much more advertising (or subscriber) revenue than it is paying Facebook to push it into your feed, or get new readers. Okay, so this type of post is easy enough to understand. When the subject pays to spread it Here is where it starts to get more confusing. Sometimes, the subject of an article pays Facebook to promote an editorial article written about them - presumably one that paints them in a positive light. To be clear, this was written by a reporter at CNET and was not paid for by Uber. But Uber clearly liked the piece and is now paying Facebook to spread it far and wide. Adam Khafifs Facebook page is sharing a NowThis Money post from its Facebook page, and that share is being "sponsored" (i.e. boosted by paying money to Facebook). But the main point is that the underlying video, and in this case even the underlying original Facebook post, isnt an ad - but the subject of the video is paying for a "sponsored" Facebook post to promote it. Sometimes these "sponsored" posts are even geo-targeted, like the one on this article from The New Yoker titled " Divinity on the Dance Floor," which is being "promoted" not even by its subject (DJ Robert Hood), but by the nightclub where he performs regularly ( Schimanski): When the outlet pays an influencer to spread it Now lets get to influencers and celebrities. This used to be done a lot through organic Facebook reach ( heres an article on this about George Takei.) Heres an example from Snoop Dogg and FashionBeans: Snoop Dogg in this instance is technically paying Facebook to promote an article from FashionBeans, titled "Here Are The Most Obnoxiously Rich Suburbs Of Americas Biggest Cities," that really has nothing to do with him. But most likely what is happening is that FashionBeans is paying him to promote it, then he is paying Facebook. This is an instance of "advertorial," where the advertiser is directly paying the media company to sponsor the actual article itself. Heres an example from BuzzFeed and NBC Sports: In these cases, the word "with" is usually employed in the Facebook post to denote which company is paying for the underlying content. So this is actually an ad - not only on Facebook but on BuzzFeeds site as well. One last thing to remember is that no matter who is paying for a "sponsored" Facebook post - outlet, subject, or influencer - if you check the actual article after following the link, it should clearly mark whether the article is an advertisement or a journalistic piece. NOW WATCH: How Tyra Banks responded to being called too big will inspire you
A Michigan woman who sacrificed the chance to prolong her own life so she could give birth has died. Nick DeKlyen told the Associated Press that his wife, Carrie DeKlyen, died Saturday morning surrounded by family. " Ill see you in Heaven," was among the last things Nick DeKlyen said to his wife. Doctors removed Carrie DeKlyens feeding and breathing tubes on Thursday after she gave birth to the couples sixth child, Life Lynn DeKlyen. The little girl was born prematurely and weighs 1 pound, four ounces, but is doing well. In this photo provided by Sonya Nelson Life Lynn DeKlyen lies in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich., Saturday, Sept. 8, 2017. Life Lynns mother, Carrie DeKlyen sacrificed the chance to prolong her life to give birth to her sixth child. Doctors removed Carries feeding and breathing tubes on Thursday, Sept. 7 a day after Life Lynn, was born at the University of Michigan Hospital. DeKlyen chose to forgo clinical trials and chemotherapy to treat her brain cancer, since it would have meant ending her pregnancy. Their daughter was born prematurely, at 24 weeks and five days into the pregnancy and weighing 1 pound, four ounces. ( Nick of Sonya Nelson via AP) Carrie DeKlyen chose to forgo chemotherapy to treat her brain cancer so she could give birth to her daughter. " Me and my wife, we are people of faith," Nick DeKlyen told the Detroit Free Press. " The couple from the western Michigan city of Wyoming was married for 17 years. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Kate McKinnon (left) and Alec Baldwin (right) as Clinton and Trump NBC Universal Saturday Night Live takes swings at all political candidates, regardless of party. And with Alec Baldwin and Kate McKinnon portraying Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, they keep hitting the mark. The show has a long history of making fun of everyone with their impersonations. Both Baldwin and McKinnon have been praised for their spot-on impressions of celebrities, musicians and politicians. Trump has even joined in on the fun in the past while acting as a host. On Saturday’s broadcast of the show, the actors took on the second debate between Trump and Clinton, and the GOP nominee was the focus of some pointed satire from Baldwin. I’m going to blow this whole thing, Baldwin, as Trump, said in the sketch. After the show, Trump took to Twitter to let people know that once it gets personal, he’s no longer laughing. While Trump and his supporters seem convinced that Saturday Night Live is trying to bring down his campaign, a lot of people took to Twitter to remind everyone that the show is all in the name of satire. Regardless of where you stand, one thing is for sure -- whether Trump likes it or not, these sketches will continue at least through November 8th.
Earlier this year, two hunters suffered gun-related injuries while camped out at the Circle Dug Ranch, a Texas ranch near the U.S.-Mexico border. According to Texas Monthly, a 26-year-old hunting guide named Walker Daugherty was shot in the abdomen. One of his clients, 59-year-old Edwin Roberts, was shot in the arm. When Daugherty reported the incident to law enforcement officials, he and his fiancée claimed that the gunfire came from illegal Mexican immigrants who were attempting to steal the Daugherty’s RV and kidnap their clients. After the incident, a GoFundMe page was launched to help Daugherty pay for his medical expenses. According to KOSA CBS 7, the now-inactive campaign page stated that Daugherty was shot by illegal immigrants who were trying to steal his RV. More than $25,0 was raised to cover Daugherty’s medical expenses. CREDIT: Credit: GoFundMe Upon hearing the story, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller posted a message to Facebook calling Daugherty a hero and pledging his support for a border wall. This is why we need the wall and to secure our borders, wrote Miller. According to the Dallas News, the post was shared 6,500 times before Miller deleted it. Weeks later, law enforcement officials determined Daugherty’s story was false. According to KOSA CBS 7 in Texas, an investigation by the Presidio County Sheriff’s Department found that the gunfire did not come from immigrants crossing the border — it came from the hunters themselves. Investigators determined that Daugherty shot Roberts and that another hunting guide, Michael Bryant, shot Daugherty. The Daugherty family reportedly released a statement about the Presidio County Sheriff’s investigation that was published on the blog The Westerner. We do not deny that our hunter client was hit by a bullet that resulted from a horribly fearful and confusing situation. However, the bullet that shot our son was not. That shot came later and from an entirely different direction. We are unable to reveal all the details of the event at this time but we do not agree with the Sherriff’s stated conclusion to the incident. Daugherty and Bryant have since been indicted on charges of deadly conduct by discharging firearms in the direction of others, reports the Austin American-Statesman.
During Drew Brees media whirlwind in New York on Tuesday, the New Orleans Saints quarterback levied yet another serious criticism of the NFL. He said that the suspended Saints coaches are afraid of speaking out about their situation. " Ive been informed a lot of those coaches feel there are further sanctions being held over their head if they dont cooperate with the investigation," Brees said on The Dan Patrick Show, via ProFootballTalk. " If they were to speak out on behalf of the players, maybe thats the fear they have." NFL spokesman Greg Aiello has told a variety of outlets that there is simply no truth to Brees claims. " Of course people are free to speak, as Joe Vitt has done," Aiello told Around the League on Wednesday. ProFootballTalks Mike Florio reported that Sean Payton and Gregg Williams fear further retribution if they say anything. As Aiello points out, Saints interim coach Joe Vitt has spoken out against the league. Vitt wondered aloud if NFL evidence has been tampered with. After Williams indefinite suspension was announced, the league indicated that Williams cooperation with future proceedings would be a factor in his possible reinstatement. " Commissioner Goodell said he will give close attention to the extent to which Coach Williams cooperates with the NFL in any further proceedings," the league explained in a March 21 statement detailing Williams punishment. Cooperating with proceedings doesnt mean Williams has to take a vow of silence. But thats essentially what hes done to this point. The back-and-forth between the players and the league over the bounty evidence is seemingly never-ending. We would be surprised if the coaches got involved publicly. Payton and Williams have openly apologized, admitted their mistakes, and seem to want to move past the controversy as much as possible.
Ex-FBI Director James Comey went rogue, according to testimony Wednesday from Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions said in a Senate hearing that by clearing Hillary Clinton from prosecution for leaking and transmitting classified and top secret emails, Comey acted as investigator, judge and jury. Sessions was addressing questions from Sen. Diane Feinstein about why Comey was fired as FBI chief. AG Sessions I don’t think the significance of the ERROR that Comey made on the Clinton matter is fully understood! pic.twitter.com/5LrYvbBYNO — ‘GITMO’ BAMA ▪️ (@President1Trump) October 18, 2017
Three House Democrats on Wednesday introduced a resolution to censure and condemn President Trump over his response to recent violence in Charlottesville, Virginia. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ), Jerry Nadler (NY) and Pramila Jayapal (WA). The trio’s resolution calls for Trump’s censure over his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia. The proposal also cites Trump for his failure to immediately and specifically name and condemn the groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism in Charlottesville. The group’s resolution additionally demands that Trump fire any and all advisors who have urged him to cater to the alt-Right movement in the United State. The document criticizes Trump for employing people with ties to white supremacist movements in the White House. White House officials with ties to white supremacy include chief strategist Steve Bannon and national security aide Sebastian Gorka, according to the resolution. Bannon previously served as the executive chairman of Breitbart, which he characterized as the platform for the alt-right last year. Gorka formerly worked as a national security editor at Breitbart, an outlet which has faced accusations of anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and misogyny. Trump insisted Tuesday that there is blame on both sides for bloodshed in Charlottesville last weekend. What about the alt-left that came charging at the – as you say, the alt-right? What about the fact they came charging with clubs in their hands, swinging clubs? Trump continued at Trump Tower in New York City. I have condemned many different groups, but not all of those people were neo-Nazis, believe me. White nationalists descended upon Charlottesville last weekend to protest the removal of a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee. One person died last Saturday when a car drove into people protesting the white nationalists in the city. Two other Virginia State Police Department officers were killed the same day in a helicopter crash authorities linked to the unrest.
Tucker Carlson said that Hillary Clinton spun a yarn of conspiracy theories about her election loss during a speech on Wednesday. Mike Huckabee joined "Fox &amp; Friends" to discuss Hillary Clintons return to the public eye with a speech over the weekend in the Poconos. A retired NYPD detective and private investigator running against New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio posted a video to Facebook challenging the Democrat to a push-up contest. A professor at a southern California college went on a diatribe against President-elect Donald Trump, and the unnamed student who recorded her may be facing punishment.
Once this Harvey Weinstein debacle is completely finished, Hollywood will be a haven of racial, gender and financial equality. The ongoing saga of Harvey Weinstein’s downfall continues with news about the former mogul possibly being stripped of his Oscar. As police in New York and London investigate the many complaints against him of sexual assault, rumours persist that Weinstein will be booted from the Producers Guild of America. Meanwhile, the name of The Weinstein Company will be changed and Weinstein’s name will be taken off future projects. Even the man’s political contributions are being returned or handed over to women’s charities. Other industry bigwigs and political leaders are being pilloried for not condemning Weinstein fast enough. His wife has left, his adult daughter feared he was suicidal, and people are lining up to savage the guy. Soon, he’ll be drawn and quartered in a public place, no doubt. On the business side, it’s been reported that The Weinstein Company is a shambles, with agents and talent trying to get themselves and their projects away from the bad smell, and upcoming films such as The Current War and The Upside in release limbo. The Financial Times says that Goldman Sachs is exploring options for its small stake in The Weinstein Company — and really, people, if the Goldman Sachs is taking the moral high ground, consider yourself toast. So why — just out of interest — is a 30-year problem coming to light now? Is there a power struggle nobody knows about in the offices of the company? Have we reached some sort of landmark in the ongoing saga of sexual impropriety and the war between men and women? Still, it’s interesting that several formerly untouchable guys have been taken down recently, including Bill Cosby, Bill O’Reilly, Roger Ailes and Donald Trump, that last dude being just a bit tougher to get rid of than the others. It’s not as if Harvey Weinstein varies much from all the other handsy creeps in his business — ooh, the names we’d insert here — and casting couch stories have plagued the industry since Florence Lawrence first fluttered her eyelashes circa 1906. Some of the more interesting fallout from the Weinstein case involves the support weasels — every Weinstein staffer who knew things were rotten is under a cloud, and so is every agent, manager, casting agent, publicist or assistant who knowingly sent some poor girl to talk to Weinstein in a hotel room. And how about the lawyers who handled the hush money all those years? Be interesting to see who gets tackled next. Since Weinstein is no doubt just a difference in degree, not in kind, it’s tough to say if this uproar will change anything on a permanent basis in his industry. Still, it would be interesting to know why Hollywood is such a sleazy place. The movie industry really is a cesspool of sexual harassment and bullying; hard to know how so many people go to work every day in such an atmosphere of fear and loathing. Many an analyst has decreed that vast amounts of money and power will do it every time, and maybe that’s true — look at Dominique Strauss-Kahn, or Silvio Berlusconi, or even l’il old home-grown Jian Ghomeshi. People will risk a lot to get anywhere near rich and famous, and an industry that allows ordinary people — capable of memorizing dialogue and playing make-believe — to be treated like gods is an industry in which every sort of predatory behaviour will no doubt thrive. How to explain the sexually predatory behaviour of men in every other industry is a bit more of a mystery. Play Video Play Loaded: 0% Progress: 0% Remaining Time -0:00 This is a modal window.
On Hannity, Republican lawmaker from South Carolina says he wants to give John McCain the send-off he deserves.
Amal and George Clooney attend the Celebrity Fight Night In Italy Benefitting The Andrea Bocelli Foundation and The Muhammad Ali Parkinson Center Gala on September 7, 2014 in Florence, Italy. ( Photo by Andrew Images for Celebrity Fight Night) — George and Amal Clooney have donated $1 million to Southern Poverty Law Center, a non-profit that strives to put an end to domestic hate groups and extremists, in response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, earlier this month. What happened in Charlottesville, and what is happening in communities across our country, demands our collective engagement to stand up to hate, the actor and humanitarian lawyer said in a joint statement. & gt;&gt; Related: More than 900 active hate groups in the U.S., report says On Aug. 12, a rally in Charlottesville turned violent when a group of white nationalists clashed with counterprotesters. One woman was killed when a car plowed into the crowd at the rally. According to Reuters, the donation comes from the Clooney Foundation for Justice, which the couple created in 2016 to promote justice worldwide in courtrooms and classrooms. Southern Poverty Law Center President Richard Cohen released a statement thanking the Clooneys for standing with (the organization) at this critical moment in our country’s fight against hate.
As the GOP divides at the rate of human cells, and a self-destructive President Trump causes his own supporters to question how he can succeed, Democrats have refused to fill the leadership void with a better vision of governance. Instead, they are partnering with the flailing Republicans and their president in failure. Meanwhile, if Trump’s trajectory doesn’t improve, the party may face the weakest, most unpopular president in modern times in 2020 -- but with who? Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are running, or think they are. Sounding like a garden-variety conservative, liberal New York Times columnist Charles Blow asked last week on Twitter: Serious question: What is the Dem party now in addition to anti-Trump? Speier tweeted that POTUS is showing signs of erratic behavior and mental instability that place the country in grave danger. Rep. Keith Ellison, deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said on CNN Monday that POTUS has sympathy for white supremacists. He’s not just a congressman anymore but a party official -- no wonder the DNC’s fundraising is at a record low. Rep. Maxine Waters, whose late-in-life internet fame recently landed her on The View, tweeted the day after Charlottesville that Trump has made it clear - &amp; Gorka in the WH, &amp; the Klan in the streets, it is now the White Supremacists House. # Former Vermont Gov. and DNC Chairman Howard The Scream Dean said last week, If you want to vote for a racist in the White House, then you better vote for Republicans. The party elder recently declared he would stop contributing to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee because it will consider recruiting pro-life candidates. After all these years, eight of them during President Obama’s two terms, Pelosi is now calling on the House Speaker Paul Ryan to remove Confederate statues -- which have always been reprehensible -- immediately from the halls of Congress if Republicans are serious about rejecting white supremacy. Polling after the events in Charlottesville show that while a majority of Americans disapprove of Trump’s response, 62 percent said monuments to Confederate leaders should remain. Yet these monuments are suddenly a pressing federal issue to national Democrats. Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, who enjoys great respect across aisle, has gone a step further than his party’s left, saying the statue removal is not a matter of political correctness, but of public safety and homeland security. This from the man who never made the issue a priority as head of DHS. Democrats must leave the fight to stop him and his family from running a kleptocracy, an issue the GOP remains silent on, to outsiders who have filed lawsuits. Leave the questions of his stability to Republicans like Sen. Bob Corker. Leave the Russia investigation to special counsel Robert Mueller. Let the media report on West Wing dysfunction or how much Trump television watches. Democrats must also decide whether they want President Obama back in the spotlight. Rudderless and leaderless, some party operators long for him swoop in and right the ship, yet they still blame him for sinking it with epic election losses from 2009 to 2016. Brad Sherman, Al Green and Gwen Moore continue to push for impeachment, party leaders must avoid what Obama’s onetime senior adviser David Axelrod warned would likely be a costly mistake. Remember: A third of the country supports this president," he said on CNN. " And if you ever did go down that road, you’re opening a Pandora’s box that will never end." What’s already in that box is widespread voter disgust. Democrats must convince voters they take governing more seriously than partisan politics and will focus on economic growth instead of statues, tweets and Russia. Or they can stay in the minority a lot longer. She is also host of "No Labels Radio" on Sirius XMs POTUS Channel. Secret Message from God Found in Human DNA (See What It Says)
Major League Baseball, the sport of Jackie Robinson and long ago a touchstone of civil rights, saw its first athlete join the movement started by Colin Kaepernick and inflamed this weekend by President Trump. Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell, who hinted at such an action earlier in the day, knelt during the national anthem before Saturday nights game against the Texas Rangers. From the @sfchronicle’s Santiago Mejia, here is A’s rookie Bruce Maxwell becoming the first MLB player to take a knee for the anthem: pic.twitter. 8QVY9hW15— Susan Slusser (@susanslusser) September 24, 2017 Maxwell, a 26-year-old catcher from Alabama, composed several tweets Saturday in the wake of President Trumps comments Friday night to "fire the sons of (expletives)" in the NFL who kneeled for the anthem. Kaepernicks protest was conceived in the wake of social injustices and the shooting of unarmed African Americans by law enforcement. Maxwells tweets Saturday made it clear that Trumps verbiage took the movement to another level: "This now has gone from just a BlackLives Matter topic to just complete inequality of any man or woman that wants to stand for Their rights!" This now has gone from just a BlackLives Matter topic to just complete inequality of any man or woman that wants to stand for Their rights!— Bruce T Maxwell (@bruu_truu13) September 23, 2017 In a profane Instagram post, he implored "every single NFL player" to kneel on Sunday, and then he followed up his words with actions before Saturday nights game in Oakland, kneeling in the dirt in front of the As dugout at the Coliseum. There was immediate support from his organization. Teammate Mark Canha kept a hand on Maxwells shoulder as he engaged in his protest as the anthem played, and wrapped him in a hug once it concluded. And the As sent out a message of support moments after the protest. Maxwell has played in 104 career games and has a lifetime .256 batting average. He entered the season as the As 10th-best prospect, according to Baseball America. Maxwell, like Kaepernick an African American of mixed race, was born in Germany while his father was stationed there in the Army. He was raised in Alabama, site of Trumps Friday night speech during which the president blasted NFL players for kneeling during the anthem and also bemoaned what he seemed to consider an overriding concern within the league for brain injuries. Saturday morning, Trump took umbrage at Golden State Warriors star Stephen Currys reluctance to visit the White House and rescinded any invitation. Trumps speech and morning-after tweets aroused a sports world that had largely let Kaepernick - currently without an NFL job - kneel alone since his protest began in August 2016. As NFL players geared up for what may be a significant day of protest before Sundays games, and NBA players blasted the president on social media as well, Maxwells Twitter and Instagram feeds went beyond his usual penchant for Alabama Crimson Tide football. A post shared by bruce_maxwell (@bruce_maxwell) on But until he took a knee before Saturdays game, baseball did not yet have a player join in anthem protests that started with Kaepernick and continued through various NFL players and even to U.S. womens national soccer team star Megan Rapinoe. The NFL and NBA are both majority African American leagues. Major League Baseballs decline in African American participation has been well-documented and this year, just 7.1% of players on opening-day rosters were black, according to a USA TODAY Sports analysis. In September 2016, shortly after Kaepernicks protests began, Baltimore Orioles All-Star outfielder Adam Jones told USA TODAY Sportsthat a similar protest in MLB was unlikely because African-American players "already have two strikes against us, so you might as well not kick yourself out of the game. Saturday night, Maxwell took that risk, inspired to act by what he saw around him and unafraid of any consequences.
Hillary Clinton speaks during a rally in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. ( Getty) Hillary Clinton is beginning to increase her odds of winning Florida in many election forecasts, while other models say that Donald Trump is now likely to capture the state. On November 6th, FiveThirtyEight was forecasting a Donald Trump victory in Florida, giving him a 52.5 percent chance of winning. The state has flipped from red to blue in the past 24 hours; as of November 7th, the FiveThirtyEight model now gives Donald Trump a 48.5 percent chance of winning Florida, with Hillary Clinton having the better odds of 51.6 percent. On their forecast, we can see a clear dip that occurs in the immediate aftermath of the news that the FBI would be looking into new emails relevant to the Hillary Clinton investigation, but now her lead is beginning to rise again. FiveThirtyEight is also forecasting that Hillary Clinton will win 48.2 percent of the popular vote in Florida, while Donald Trump will receive 48.0 percent of it. But in The New York Times’ The Upshot, Florida is actually beginning to move in Donald Trump’s direction. On November 6th, the Times’ model gave Hillary Clinton a 70 percent chance of winning the state, but now, this number has gone down to 66 percent. And two weeks ago, before the FBI news was released, Hillary Clinton had an 80 percent chance of winning Florida on The Upshot. The model currently gives Clinton an 84 percent chance of becoming the next president. Clearly, Clinton does not absolutely need Florida to win, while Donald Trump almost certainly can’t reach 270 Electoral College votes without it. On PredictWise, Hillary Clinton now has better odds of winning Florida than she did yesterday. On November 6th, Clinton was given a 73 percent chance of winning Florida by PredictWise, but now that has gone up two points to 75 percent. Surprisingly, PredictWise is actually giving Clinton better odds of winning Florida today than she had prior to the FBI announcement on October 28th. Hours before that news dropped, Clinton’s odds of winning Florida were at 72 percent. In the aftermath of that bombshell, her odds fell all the way down to 58 percent, but she has now more than recovered from it. Nationally, PredictWise gives Clinton an 89 percent chance of winning the election, up two points since yesterday. Meanwhile, a dramatic shift has taken place on The Huffington Post’s forecast. On Sunday, this model gave Clinton a 93 percent chance of winning Florida, and the state was placed in the probable Clinton column. Twenty-four hours later, Florida has been moved into the battleground column, and her odds of winning the state have dropped down to 89 percent. The Huffington Post has also moved North Carolina from probable Clinton into battleground. One day ago, Clinton’s projected minimum number of Electoral College votes was 317, but now that has dropped down to 273. Clinton has seen a very slight bump in DailyKos‘ election forecast, though. On November 6th, they gave her a 74 percent chance of winning Florida, but that has now gone up one point to 75 percent. This bump also came as DailyKos released its final election prediction. They expect Hillary Clinton to win 323 Electoral College votes – including that of North Carolina and Florida – and Donald Trump to win 215 votes. It’s easy to see why all these shifts have taken place, as several key Florida polls were released on Monday that show the race to be much tighter than it was just one day ago. Yesterday, Hillary Clinton was ahead in Real Clear Politics’ Florida polling average by 0.9 percentage points, but today, Trump leads by 0.3 percent. No polls have yet been released that reflect the FBI’s recent announcement that they would still not be recommending charges against Hillary Clinton after reviewing the new set of e-mails, so it remains to be seen if Clinton will be able to recover even more of her lead in the aftermath of that news.
North Korean leader and and monster heel Kim Jong-Un attends the test of a missile dropkick. Geopolitical tensions are mounting after state-run North Korean news media released footage of what appears to be the successful test of a devastating missile dropkick. In newly released footage, North Korean President Kim Jong-Un is seen celebrating as missile dropkick collides feet-first with an ocean target, causing a huge bump. The missile dropkick was reportedly launched from the country’s Technical Operations Pad for Thermonuclear and Underwater Reconnaissance Networks of Ballistics Used for Catastrophic Kinetic Launching Exercises, or T.O.P. T.U.R.N.B.U.C.K.L.E. International weaponry experts have long known that North Korea is capable of launching a Powerbomb — perhaps even an Exploder Suplex — but the possibility that the country now has a missile dropkick in its arsenal has caused alarm worldwide and throughout the WWE Universe. U.S. President and WWE Hall of Famer Donald Trump has insisted he has zero tolerance for North Korea’s missile dropkick tests and will, if necessary, send Bobby Lashley over to take care of them before Trump himself shaves Kim Jong-Un’s head.
On Sunday night crazed killer Stephen Paddock murdered 58 people and injured another 500 at the Harvest 91 Festival in Las Vegas, Nevada. Investigators are still looking for a motive. The killer left a cryptic note on a table in his room the night of the attack. There are now reports that the cryptic note was full of random numbers. The Metro reported: A cryptic note full of random numbers has been found in the Las Vegas shooter’s hotel room, police say. Authorities are still trying to find out what drove Stephen Paddock to launching the worst mass shooting in US history. The mystery piece of paper was found near his dead body and Sheriff Lombardo said it’s been sent off for analysis. The 64-year-old to killed 58 and injured 489 when he opened fire on people at the Route 91 Harvest Festival off the Las Vegas strip on Sunday night. Investigators are looking into whether Paddock also planned a car bombing. Investigative journalist Laura Loomer noticed something interesting. The killer targeted the Harvest 91 festival on October 1 or 10-1. The numbers come out to: 91 10-1 or 9-11-01. I was thinking about the numerology surrounding the #LasVegasShooting at Harvest 91 on October 1. 8S — Laura Loomer (@LauraLoomer) October 7, 2017 Sponsored Sponsored
It’s not often that a suspect’s attorney calls the police officer who arrested him a true hero; but in John Picerno’s eyes, that exactly what Overland Park Police Sergeant Scott Ferguson is. Back in April, Ferguson was on night patrol when he spotted a vehicle driving along the wrong side of road with no headlights on. He pulled the car over, but the driver quickly took off again…only to crash into a fire hydrant. Dash cam footage from Ferguson’s patrol car then shows the drunk driver exiting his vehicle. He stood there hunched over with his hands behind his back, until Ferguson began approaching. That’s when the driver pulled out a pistol. Rather than brandishing his own weapon, Ferguson wrestled the gun out of the driver’s hands – and the driver to the ground where he was finally handcuffed. At his hearing in August, the suspect pleaded guilty to aggravated assault and battery on a law enforcement officer, as well as driving under the influence. After serving 170 days of his sentence, he was placed on probation. But according to Picerno, his lawyer, he should just be thankful he’s alive. He is very lucky and both he and his family are very grateful for the officer, Sgt. Scott Ferguson, who exercised extreme discretion during the incident, Picerno said according to the Kansas City Star. He added that Ferguson likely would’ve been justified in firing his weapon in that situation. No one is tougher on law enforcement than me, he continued. He is an example of what good policing looks like.
A roundup of some of the most popular, but completely untrue, headlines of the week. None of these stories are legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out; here are the real facts: NOT REAL: Charlottesville Killer Was Hillary Supporter, Funded By Soros THE FACTS: James Fields, whos charged with murder after police say he drove his car into a Charlottesville, Virginia, crowd last weekend, supported President Donald Trump during the 2016 campaign, his former teacher told the AP. GoFundMe confirmed that it removed "multiple campaigns" to raise money for Fields; none were started by billionaire George Soros, who has been a frequent target of hoax sites. The stories shared by YourNewsWire and other sites claim Fields arrest is part of a "false flag" aimed at sparking a civil war. _ NOT REAL: President Trump Fires All 14 Muslim Federal Judges THE FACTS: There arent any Muslims on the federal bench and the president has no authority to fire federal judges. Abid Qureshi, a Washington, D.C., attorney, was nominated last year by former President Barack Obama to be the first Muslim federal judge, but he wasnt confirmed by the Senate. The hoax story by a site named As American As Apple Pie and shared by others also claimed Trump used the "evacuation clause" to remove the judges. There is no such clause that is part of federal law. _ NOT REAL: MYSTERIOUS NAZI SUBMARINE FROM WWII DISCOVERED IN GREAT LAKES THE FACTS: Divers didnt find a German U-boat at the bottom of the Lake Ontario despite a story posted last year by admitted hoax outlet World Daily News Report, shared recently by other sites. The story suggests the ship may have sunk during the non-existent Battle of Niagara Falls. The photos included with the article show in reality a rusted Soviet submarine and two divers from a 2010 expedition to the North Pole by a French team. _ NOT REAL: British PM Theresa May: Pedophiles Should be Allowed to Adopt Children Too THE FACTS: The story by Neon Nettle is based on a 2010 article by a British law professor that called for May, who was the U.K.s home secretary at the time, to relax rules banning sex offenders from caring from children. May had previously ordered a review of vetting procedures for adults coming into regular contact with children other than their own, but Mays spokesman said at the time that her office wouldnt consider allowing pedophiles to adopt. _ NOT REAL: What Adam Sandler is Saying About Mormons THE FACTS: The comedian didnt come to the defense of Mormons on a recent podcast, despite a slew of identical articles on websites designed to look like local news outlets. The story claims Sandler stepped into say Mormons were "decent people" when an unnamed interviewer began to disparage them. All of the sites include a disclaimer saying the stories on them arent real. _ This weekly fixture is part of The Associated Press ongoing efforts to fact-check claims in suspected false news stories. _
We’re talking the real deal here, not that namby-pamby chemical castration. An Alabama lawmaker introduced a bill Monday that would require certain sex offenders to be permanently and physically castrated prior to being released from prison. The offenders that the bill targets are the worst of the worst — predators of young children. Republican Rep. Steve Hurst introduced the measure requiring anyone older than 21 who is convicted of certain sex offenses against children age 12 or younger to pay for the surgical procedure before they serve the end of their prison sentence. This isn’t a first for Hurst — he’s introduced similar legislation seven times since 2006, but most of his efforts never made it out of committee, according to CBS News. He was prompted to begin this crusade as the result of a visit from a foster parent advocacy group that relayed a horrible story of abuse. I’ve often wondered what that child went through, physically and mentally, and what kind of shape he’s in now, Hurst said Monday. They (sex offenders) have marked these children for life. And if they’ve marked children for life, they need to be marked for life. CBS News reported: Hurst in 2005 agreed to remove castration requirements from legislation setting tougher sentences for sex offenders. Several House members at the time told The Associated Press they feared the castration language would have made the bill unconstitutional. In 2011, Hurst co-sponsored a bill that classified the sexual abuse of a child 6 years or younger as a capital offense, allowing courts to sentence offenders to life without parole. Alabama residents have mixed feelings about the measure. Somebody that wants to mess with a little girl or little boy that age should be castrated, and they should not be able to mess with any other kids, Keith Dison told CBS affiliate WIAT. I understand prison and going to prison for a long time for some kind of crime like that, but to physical mutilate someone…that’s a little out there…it’s crazy, Jessica George told the station.
A convoy used by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria has become a death trap for fighters with the radical Islamic terrorist group. American planes have carried out a number of air strikes on ISIS forces while largely avoiding civilian casualties. According to multiple reports and Pentagon spokesmen, the convoy consisted of 17 buses that were departing an ISIS-held enclave after striking a deal with the radical Islamic terrorist group Hezbollah and the Syrian army. However, the United States scrambled assets to attack the convoy, and cratered the road ahead of the busses. A U.S. Air Force F-16 Fighting Falcon flies over Iraq in support of Operation Inherent Resolve April 5, 2016. ( Corey ) While six of the vehicles turned back towards the city of Palmyra, the other 11 have been stranded for at least 10 days. Since then, they have become almost irresistible bait for the terrorist group. Over 85 terrorists have been hit by coalition air strikes since the convoy was stranded. This has saved the United States and the rest of the anti-ISIS coalition the time and effort of hunting them down. The U.S.-lead anti-ISIS coalition has allowed deliveries of food and water to the convoy, to which ISIS fighters have been drawn to "[l]ike moths to the flame," according to comments by DOD spokesman Ryan Dillon, an Army colonel. ISIS militants loaded into buses who fled Lebanon in a peace deal with Hezbollah. ( Screengrab from YouTube UNB News) "We were able to exploit it and take advantage," he said, noting that over 40 vehicles, from technicals to a tank, have been hit trying to aid the convoy. " We were able to continue to just observe and pick them off one at a time," Col. The experienced ISIS troops have also apparently grown frustrated during the siege. During one of the deliveries, an internal squabble broke out. You could clearly tell they were going to fisticuffs," Dillon said. There was no word on whether the internal fighting among the ISIS terrorists saved the coalition additional trouble.
So there is a new meme going around on Twitter, that is becoming so popular even Kenny G is getting in on the action. It’s basic set up is a multiple choice dating profile questionnaire asking you who you are and what you’re looking for. It’s been around for almost a week, but really took off in the last few days, and I’m not even sure what to call it since it doesn’t seem to have an official name. There are a million great spins on this, but here are some of our faves! Im: ⚪️a man⚪️a woman?coming out of my cage And Ive: ⚪️never felt this way before⚪️had the time of my life?been doing just fine — bumblegoat (@NECROMANClNG) August 19, 2017 2. Roommates Oh my god, they were: ⚪ Dead⚪ Nearby? Roommates — Kristian (@celestialmiller) August 20, 2017 4. Beyonces 2016 LEMONADE album to receive the album of the year Grammy it deserved! — Man⚪️Woman Looking for: ⚪️Men⚪️Women?That damn fourth Chaos Emerald pic.twitter. 8Y1FPo — Lonely Goomba (@LonelyGoomba) August 20, 2017 6. steve: big man in a suit of armor, take that away what are you? philanthropist — m (@tjhmmnd) August 20, 2017 7. G Looking for: ⚪️ A Relationship⚪️ Casual Sax? Serious Sax — Kenny G (@kennyg) August 20, 2017 8. 2p — Kraker (@kraker2k) August 20, 2017 9. another bro to chill five feet away from in a hot tub because im not gay⚪️man — em (@parkerisadork) August 19, 2017 10. Clown Fish Looking for:⚪ A boyfriend⚪ A girlfriend? My son Nemo — Trevor Jones (@jonestm97) August 19, 2017 11. I am a: ⚪️Man⚪️Woman?Father Looking for: ⚪️Men⚪️Women?MY SON HAVE YOU SEEN MY SON pic.twitter. I am a: ⚪️Man⚪️Woman?Gordon Ramsey Looking for: ⚪️Men⚪️Women?THE LAMB SAUCE — lis (@abratasas) August 20, 2017 14. evil sorcerer Shang Tsung Seeking⚪️ men⚪️ women? what team?⚪️cobras?wildcats⚪️ravens what team?⚪️bulldogs?wildcats⚪️panthers WILDCATS?GETCHA HEAD IN THE GAME — beth (@midtownhoIIand) August 20, 2017 17. thor: ragnarok getting the hype it deserves — pinned (@gaytonys) August 17, 2017 18. Mariah Careys Grammys that were wrongfully snubbed from 1995 masterpiece Daydream — . ( I am a: ⚪️Man⚪️Woman?Pac-Man Looking for: ⚪️Men⚪️Women? The ability to press Z without immediately falling into a dark depression pic.twitter. 4 — its_me_klc (@its_me_klc) August 20, 2017 20. AH: ⚪️O⚪️AH?ᵃʰ stop i couldve dropped my: ⚪️donut ⚪️bagel ? croissant — juliah (@spideystights) August 20, 2017 21. rolling out looking for americas greatest diners drive-ins and dives — Chance Harbour (@ChanceHarbour) August 20, 2017
Via Daily Caller: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt announced he would sign a proposed rule to repeal the centerpiece of former President Barack Obama’s plan to fight global warming. Pruitt announced his intention to withdraw the Clean Power Plan (CPP) to applause from a crowd gathered at a mining event on Monday. EPA has been working to repeal the CPP for months. The Obama administration finalized the CPP in 2015, which aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions from power plants 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. Obama used the CPP as part of his plant to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord.
August Ames left behind a suicide note before tragically taking her own life. Find out what she wrote in her final message here. Before taking her life, August Ames left a suicide note behind in her car. Within the note that was addressed to her family and friends, August allegedly apologized for killing herself in a public park, The Blast reports. However, according to the Medical Examiner, August failed to mention the bullying and online harassment she suffered in the days leading up to her suicide at any point in her message, which was discovered by authorities. We reported earlier how the Ventura County Medical Examiner spokesperson said that the official cause of death was asphyxiation from hanging herself, an act which she committed in a park 20 minutes away from her home. Immediately after her death, many of her friends initially believed that she had taken her life as a result of cyberbullying after August tweeted about refusing to do a scene with a male adult performer who had done gay porn. While the suicide note did not indicate that bullying was an impetus for August taking her own life, we reported earlier how Dr. Jenn Mann informed us that bully victims are 229 times more likely to commit suicide than non-victims, according to a study by Yale University. It’s now also come to light that August reportedly had mental health issues that stemmed from when she was allegedly sexually assaulted as a kid. One of August’s friends and fellow porn star Alison Tyler said that the porn industry could have been a lot more supportive of August, and that August had never been homophobic despite claims that a controversial tweet she posted was potentially gay-bashing. Click here to see the saddest celebrity deaths of 2017. HollywoodLifers, do you think more light will be shed on August’s death? Let us know your thoughts in the comment section below.
Regarding Jennifer Rubin, Washington Post, Oct. 7: The Washington Post has the audacity to call out Fox News and the GOP while writing its liberal garbage defending Hillary Clinton and Democrats, who have led this country down a dangerous path of socialist leaning. I know this paper is being led by an ex-Post employee, but please give your readers a break. The Statesman must have an editorial department; why not use them instead of importing this junk. Karl Betar, Meridian Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms
During the second presidential debate in St. Louis, Missouri, candidate Trump told Hillary Clinton, You’d be in jail! It’s now been one year and Trump supporters are still waiting to see Crooked Hillary behind bars. Trump supporters weren’t kidding when they chanted, Lock her up! In 2015 former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani famously said Hillary Clinton should be investigated for breaking 15 federal laws. Rudy Giuliani: General Petraeus was got prosecuted for doing approximately one-tenth of what she’s alleged to have done… There are specific federal crimes, I could give you a list of fifteen of them if you’d like, that she should be investigated for, for which there needs to be an answer. According to the public record, the answer to many of those is there is probable cause to believe she committed a crime. I qualify that by saying the public record. It’s been a year since President Trump told Hillary Clinton to her face that he would lock her up. Americans are tired of a two-tiered judicial system — one for the elites and one for the common man. Attorney General Jeff Sessions needs to get on it.

Tuesday January 17, 2017: Eric hopes for a breakthrough, Thomas and Steffy chat about their lives, and Bill counsels Liam to have patience. In San Francisco, Ridge pours a drink and Quinn accepts another as well. Quinn warns Ridge that if he thinks she’d betray Eric, he doesn’t know a damn thing about her. Quinn opens up about feeling disrespected and used repeatedly. She recalls how Bill tossed her aside, and all the men who came after him were the same. Ridge notes he’s nothing like Bill Spencer. Incredulous, Quinn points out what Ridge was planning to do to her – he’s exactly like him! She says Eric is the first man to respect her and she’s not giving that up…ever. Quinn counters if she was a golddigger she would have gone after Bill’s millions. She becomes emotional describing what it was like to raise Wyatt while poor and trying to start a business. Ridge sees why she built a wall around herself, but says she went too far, with Liam for example. Quinn screams that she hates who she was then, but finally she has a life worth living because of love. I am not letting you take that away from me! Ridge reiterates that he wants to protect his father since Quinn goes through the world pushing people away. Quinn protests that she had to, to survive, but Eric saw through that and took a chance on her. Ridge softens, and assures her she’s not alone. He can see why his father fell for her – he sees the beautiful woman she hides from the world. Ridge warns she has to stop spinning webs and building walls. He reassures his neighbor that Quinn trusts him as much as he trusts her. They joke about Ridge and Quinn being in San Francisco. Eric is hoping for some sort of breakthrough. In Malibu, Bill and Liam discuss Spencer Publications business, but Liam is distracted. Bill opens up about his frustrations with Brooke. He counsels that sometimes you just have to know that things will work out even if it takes time. Bill predicts Steffy will move back in with Liam and Brooke’s marriage to Ridge won’t happen. Bill is certain Ridge will mess up; he always does. Just in: B&amp;B’s Linsey Godfrey reveals photos of herself as a zombie for Living With the Dead role At the loft, Thomas tells Steffy he doesn’t know when Caroline is coming back. He hints that when she and Douglas do arrive, it would be nice not to have a roommate. Thomas wonders why she hasn’t had a meltdown yet. Steffy just hopes Eric’s not too badly hurt when she does.
Sometimes she chooses a good cause, like speaking up for trafficked and abused children. Those are the activities she should stick to. Unfortunately, Judd had to go to the "Womens March," where hundreds of thousands of women wore pink "pussy" hats while claiming to be upset that Trump had used that word once. She performed ridiculous slam poetry, screeching defamatory accusations about the president wanting to have sex with his daughter and about other terrible things about which she had no first-hand knowledge. ( You can watch the video below if you have the stomach for it.) But at no time did she ever discuss a man who she did know did horrific things. No "by the way, Harvey Weinstein is a dirtbag who tried to get me to watch him shower for a part." I find it very difficult to believe Judd is this angry at Donald Trump, a man who has never done anything to her, or provably to anybody, when there is a man who did do something horrible to her whom she could be screeching about. Jennifer Lawrence was recently interviewed for her epic fail of a movie, Mother, and gave Democratic talking points like "equality for women in the workplace," blamed Trump for hurricanes, and rattled off the same tired Leftist arguments weve heard forever. During another interview, she claimed that she is terrified of Trump and wanted to make a video of herself saying "F*** you!" Lawrence claimed she felt she could be a spokesperson for women who are underpaid: I felt like I had a voice, people look at me and listen to me, and to not say anything, thats never sat well with me. That seems disingenuous, because she kept quiet about the creepy mogul who everyone in Hollywood appears to have known was abusing women. Dont you have a responsibility to alert other women that there is a serial sexual predator in their midst? Lawrence hasnt alleged any harassment from Weinstein, although she is seen looking awkward in many photos with him while he holds her too close to his massive girth. It wouldnt surprise me if she had first-hand knowledge of his depravity. Gwyneth Paltrow is the most apolitical in this list. While she supported Obama, she never had anything more interesting to say beyond how handsome she thinks he is. Mostly she spends her life divorcing people and selling outrageously priced trinkets to rich women online. While she doesnt fit in the category of commenting on Trump, she bears much responsibility in this scandal.
@ How much money did it cost the nations taxpayers for Vice President and Official Glarer at North Korea Mike Pence to spend just enough time in Indianapolis on Sunday to storm out of a Colts game in protest of a protest? CNN has an estimate just for the plane alone: According to the Air Force, flying a C-32, the model of plane used for Air Force 2, for one hour costs about $30,0. Pences flight from Las Vegas to Indianapolis Saturday took about three hours and 20 minutes, so it cost about $100,0. Pence then flew from Indianapolis to Los Angeles on Sunday, which took about four hours and 45 minutes, costing about $142,500. It does not include any of the ancillary costs that accrue anytime the vice president travels anywhere. There were increased security costs to local police once Pence was on the ground in Indianapolis. Costs to locals stuck in traffic as roads were likely closed for his motorcade. Costs to the Colts to increase security at the stadium. All so Pence could release a statement that was the equivalent of his infamous stern gaze across the Demilitarized Zone at North Korea: I left todays Colts game because President Trump and I will not dignify any event that disrespects our soldiers, our Flag, or our National Anthem. At a time when so many Americans are inspiring our nation with their courage, resolve, and resilience, now, more than ever, we should rally around our Flag and everything that unites us. While everyone is entitled to their own opinions, I dont think its too much to ask NFL players to respect the Flag and our National Anthem. I stand with President Trump, I stand with our soldiers, and I will always stand for our Flag and our National Anthem. Pences office would like you to think this was just a spontaneous reaction by a man proud of his flag and his nation. This is belied by the fact that his reporters traveling with him were not allowed out of their vans when they arrived at the Colts stadium but were told ahead of time that there may be an early departure from the game by VPOTUS. It is also belied by this tweet sent Sunday afternoon by Donald Trump: I asked @VP Pence to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country. The Colts were playing the San Francisco 49ers, the former team of Colin Kaepernick, who started the kneeling protests a year ago. The chances that Mike Pence would see players kneeling were approximately 100 percent. He knew this ahead of time, yet he still chose to fly from Las Vegas to Indianapolis despite the fact that he had to fly back to California immediately afterwards for fundraisers, just so he could get a picture of himself holding his hand over his heart (a picture his staff immediately made the header photo on his Twitter page) before theatrically storming out and scolding the NFL players for offending him. A real leader might have tried to find out exactly why the players started kneeling in the first place, which was to protest police brutality and racism, and then spoken with them and tried to figure out ways to address their concerns. As of Monday morning, he has yet to make a peep about the white nationalists returning to Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday night to once again rally around the Robert E. Lee statue there. That he is seemingly far more concerned with staging a political stunt slapping down African-American players protesting systemic racism tells you all you need to know about him. Oh, and to top it off, one of the fundraisers Pence is attending in California is for Dana Rohrabacher, the strongly pro-Russia congressman. The views and opinions expressed within it are those of the author only and do not necessarily reflect the editorial opinion of IJR.
Governor Cuomo of New York is threatening to sue the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to stop its ongoing raids to detain illegal immigrants wanted for serious crimes like assault and rape. A staggering 80% of those apprehended in recent ICE raids in New York were either convicted criminals or charged with crimes. But Mr. Cuomo is siding with criminals over their victims. Faced with a challenge on his left flank from Cynthia Nixon, he’s desperate to prove his liberal bona fides. The governor is parroting Democrats across the nation who claim ICE should be abolished because it’s breaking apart families and peaceful communities. So when House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi claims that unjust and cruel ICE raids terrorize innocent immigrant families, don’t buy it. Mr. Cuomo is making the same bogus claim. Last Thursday, the governor denounced an ICE raid on an Upstate farm looking for Marcial DeLeon-Aguilar, a three-time deportee convicted for felony aggravated assault. Mr. Cuomo complained that Aguilar’s children had to watch their father being pinned by officers to block his escape. What about families victimized by violent illegals? Some of the victims were left so mutilated they could hardly be identified. MS-13 beats the youngsters with baseball bats, puts plastic bags over their heads to suffocate them and then slices off their noses, ears and lips with machetes. No one reads these victims their constitutional rights. ICE’s Operation Matador targets MS-13 gang members. Yet Mr. Cuomo seems angrier at the ICE agents than at the MS-13 butchers. Laughably, Mr. Cuomo issued a cease and desist letter to ICE last week, ordering federal agents to touch base with local police before taking enforcement action. Mr. Cuomo doesn’t have a leg on which to stand. Why the surge in visible, violent sweeps? As ICE’s Deputy Director Thomas Homan points out, these sanctuary policies are needlessly exposing New Yorkers to violence. Mr. Cuomo is mimicking California Democrats, who are in open rebellion against federal law enforcement. In February, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf issued a public alert about a planned ICE raid in her city before it took place, tipping off hundreds of wanted criminals to scatter. Political pandering is driving this agenda. Immigrants disproportionately favor big government. California hasn’t elected a statewide Republican since 2006. New York is moving in the same direction, with 23% of its population foreign-born and Democrats gaining increasing control of state government. Brutes willing to torture and mutilate a human being with a machete will not be dissuaded by learning to play the flute. President Trump calls them animals who have turned peaceful neighborhoods into bloodstained killing fields. He’s got the right plan: We will find you. Ms. McCaughey is a senior fellow at the London Center for Policy Research. receive the latest by email: subscribe to the new york suns free mailing list
The media’s reporting has now become one of the most central issues being covered by the media. Trump’s fitness to serve is simply a piece of fake news that his enemies are using to relentlessly attack him. The issues are not the central matters that concern Trump’s opponents – they just seem focused on one thing – bringing President Trump down – with no red lines as to how to achieve that goal. Let’s hope political discourse takes a step upwards and we can return to discussing the main issues. Some corners of the media seem to have totally lost focus on what their jobs are supposed to be. The State of Israel is very used to this entire idea of fact inventing and fact-bending. Just like Donald Trump has been saying, the New York times has been using headlines such as: Ten die in PLO Fighting as far back as the 80’s. Instead of reporting that warring Arab factions in Lebanon had killed other Arab factions in Lebanon, the clear implication was that the Israeli Army killed 10 more Arabs. This was noted by US Ambassador to the UN, Jeane Kikpatrick. The key aspect was not whether or not the news was fake or not, but whether or not the implication that the publications were hoping to get across would stick. In the case of the New York Times, it was a clear anti-Israel bias that spread across ABS, NBC, and CBS during their War in Lebanon. The bias against Israel has continued to this day and has been augmented by CNN’s slanted reporting. Fox News is occasionally a breath of fresh air on Israel, but not always;. So, when Donald Trump takes on the biased media with terms like fake news, it is a pleasure to see and watch the pompous anti-right wing media cringe. Indeed, most of the mass media has completely lost it. To view your favorites click here This video has 2 votes
Opinion editorial Modal Trigger James Comey As soon as FBI Director James Comey announced the revival of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private e-mail server, Democrats went on the attack — against Comey. The lowest is the party’s top smear-meister: Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid. The same Harry Reid who flat-out lied in 2012 in claiming a confidential source told him Mitt Romney had paid no income taxes for a decade. ( The same Harry Reid who still calls that lie one of the best things I’ve ever done — simply because Romney didn’t win. Now he’s wildly accusing Comey of suppressing evidence about Donald Trump’s close ties and coordination with Vladimir Putin’s government. And he’s not alone: Democrats and their media allies have unleashed an unbridled attack on Comey, accusing him of violating federal law with his Friday letter to Congress. He’s endangering democracy, they say, and deliberately sabotaging Clinton. In June, Democrats praised Comey to the skies after he gave Hillary a free pass on her private server. Never mind that, as former Attorney General Michael Mukasey argued, her actions appear to have violated several statutes, and others have been prosecuted for far less. Now that Comey wants to check the e-mails from Anthony Weiner’s devices, he’s become an agent of the vast right-wing conspiracy that Clinton says has been hounding her for 25 years. Sorry: After clearing Clinton four months ago, Comey had no choice but to announce the discovery of potential fresh evidence in the case — evidence that should’ve been handed over long ago. If he’d tried to keep a lid on it, the political impact would be far bigger when the news inevitably leaked. We’re glad to see the White House playing it cool, announcing that President Obama doesn’t believe Comey is trying to influence the election outcome. The fault here is not with the FBI but with the Democrats’ own candidate, Hillary Clinton, who plainly believes the law doesn’t matter if it conflicts with her desire for secrecy. Just as Harry Reid believes the truth doesn’t matter — as long as the Democrats win.
The 1st Amendment is the most well known to Americans of all the amendments in the Bill of Rights. The 1st Amendment protects your right to believe and practice whatever religious principles you choose and your right to say what you believe, even if it is unpopular or against the will of elected officials. It also protects your right to publish any information you want, join together with whomever you want and ask the government to correct its own errors. In fact, it affects just about everything you do. This page has a brief description of each clause with links to more detailed information about the history and purpose of each section. For one hundred years the 1st Amendment was understood to only apply to the federal government, but after the Civil War and the 14th Amendment was added to the Constitution, courts began to forbid the states to interfere with these rights as well due to an idea called "due process of law." Learn more about the Opening Phrase of the 1st Amendment here. It prohibits the government from establishing a state religion or denomination and from directing people in what they must believe. It could also punish anyone who didnt adhere to its chosen faith. Prayer at a football game This clause has been the focus of much debate in the last half century. Some Americans believe that whenever the government is involved, absolutely all religious expression must be forbidden in order to comply with the Establishment Clause. For example, they might say a public school football team should not pray at a football game because the school is a government funded school. Other Americans believe the government must make certain allowances for religious expressions in public events and buildings because Americans are a very religious people. They belive a high school football team prayer or a government employee displaying a cross at work does not violate the Establishment Clause because it is simply a personal expression and not an expression endorsed by the state. This phrase deals with the restriction on Congress to regulate anyones religious practices. US Supreme Court In general, Congress cannot tell people how they can or cannot express their religious beliefs. Such things as telling people when or how to pray, when they should go to church or to whom they should pray, are off limits to lawmakers. The Freedom of Speech Clause The Freedom of Speech Clause is the part of the 1st Amendment that says, "Congress shall make no law. British history contained a long string of suppression by those in authority of those with whom they disagreed. Many British subjects had been thrown in prison for voicing their religious and political beliefs. The Americans intended to prevent this from ever happening in their newly formed republic. It also allows them to express the religious beliefs of their choosing. Such things as picketing, wearing symbols or burning the flag are considered protected forms of speech because they are expressing the ideas of the people participating in them. English history contained no freedoms for the press whatsoever. If you would like to learn more about the Freedom of the Press Clause, please click here. the right of the people peaceably to assemble." Government officials in each case tried to restrict the speech of these groups and prevent them from meeting, organizing and getting their message out. to petition the Government for a redress of grievances." You can read more about the history and meaning of the Freedom of Petition Clause here. Learn more about the Bill of Rights with the following articles: Last updated 8/7/12
Credit: HealthNutNews Recently, Erin Elizabeth from HealthNutNews wrote up an expose about the past year’s findings concerning the many disappearances of holistic doctors. In fact, according to one Berkeley doctor, conventional treatments for concerns such as cancer are less effective than forgoing treatment in the first place. It seems that health practitioners that promote the idea that every individual can be their own doctor by taking responsibility for their own health rather than waiting for emergency medicine are being targeted, as they are going against a system which is corrupt and toxic. This same day in Mexico, June 19th, 2015, three doctors were traveling to the State Capital to deliver some papers and were reported missing. I also did an exclusive interview with the Bradstreet family as they publicly said I was the only journalist they trusted to talk about the horrific incident. Update: Family and loved ones of Dr. Hedendal have spoken to the media that they are suspicious of his death and want answers. A few mutual friends of Dr. Holt have contacted me. Both were well loved by their patients, community, friends and family.) 3) June 29th, 2015 The beloved holistic Theresa Sievers, MD was found murdered in her home. The authorities have been investigating for two weeks around the clock, and now say that she was targeted. On the very same day, June 29th, Jeffrey Whiteside, MD, a pulmonologist, went missing- vanishing when he simply walked away. His attorney says there is evidence to show he had no involvement whatsoever with the crime. He’s 6′ tall and described as Irish-looking with a goatee (details can be found in the links). He had been preparing for a half marathon and was allegedly out training that night. He was in perfect shape and ate an extremely healthy diet. 13) September 16, 2015 I reported that our colleague, best selling author and holistic MD, Mitch Gaynor, is found dead outside his country home; an hour or so from Manhattan where he practiced. UPDATE: Mitch Gaynor, MD had been on RT not long before he died. People on her Facebook page seemed shocked and in disbelief about her death. UPDATE: Dr Marshall’s wife (also a doctor and surgeon) has hired her own investigator and is questioning the quick call by Seattle PD. That’s all I’ll elaborate on right now, as even I don’t know all the details. 22) February 1, 2016 Just a week later, to the day, after losing our local friend and holistic doctor; Rod Floyd we lost another local friend also right here in our same local holistic community. Now we have his close friend (and our friend!) She was so young so this is particularly heartbreaking. She is the only one in this entire series I’ve ever written about who is not a doctor of some sort (DC, MD, DO, and even a PhD at the end) But she was a board certified Nurse Practitioner whose patients rave about her endlessly. Many are wondering if the local authorities are to be trusted. No arrests have been made in either murder. 31) May 19, 2016 Prominent investigator hired by Dr Marshall’s wife (She’s also an MD and a surgeon) and investigator says on CBS news that the accidental death of Dr Marshall (that I reported on first in January) is most likely a professionally staged murder by someone in military or police. Keep updated on this story as new details may emerge. Dr Huang allegedly knew his assailant (authorities said immediately) but we had a holistic doctor gunned down by a man the day before in his office (see #33) who they say knew his assailant too. 2 holistic doctors in under 2 days murdered in their offices does raise eyebrows.
Roy Moore for Senate In a report titled ‘Roy Moore’s Facebook page shared inflammatory memes, article praising Russia’s anti-gay laws,’ CNN (Cable News Network), one of most rabid left-wing, anti-conservative channels in the United States, sternly criticized the conservative contents of the Facebook page belonging to Roy Moore, the Republican nominee for US Senate in Alabama. Among Moore’s Facebook posts hated by CNN the most highlighted was the BarbWire article  Conservative Russians Give Moral Lesson to Facebook’s Homosexual Propaganda, written by me. CNN said, Moore’s Facebook page also shared an article from the religious conservative website BarbWire.com in July 2015 with the headline, Conservative Russians Give Moral Lesson to Facebook’s Homosexual Propaganda. The article highlighted efforts by some Russians to counter a feature on Facebook that allowed users to overlay a rainbow over their profile picture. Trending: English Professor Assigns Trump-Bashing Books The strongest reaction came from conservative Russians who overlaid an image of the colors of their country’s flag — white, blue and red — over their profile picture, the article read, adding that users also countered the homosexual #LoveWins hashtag with #pridetobestraight and #pridetoberussian. The article also described Russia’s efforts to crack down on the LGBT community, including the country’s so-called gay propaganda law, as a strong stance in defense of traditional family values. CNN added, Moore shared an article in July 2015 that praised Russia’s anti-gay laws and Russians who opposed Facebook’s feature that allowed users to change their profile pictures to celebrate same-sex marriage: I considered it a privilege to have a my conservative BarbWire article shared by Judge Roy Moore. I considered it an even greater privilege to have my name connected with fine conservative leaders such as James Dobson and Chuck Norris, in the official list of endorsements of Moore. As a conservative evangelical Christian, I am not surprised that CNN attacked Moore just because he shared one of my BarbWire articles. After all, what expect from the Communist News Network? Portuguese version of this article: CNN ataca Roy Moore só porque ele compartilhou meu artigo no portal conservador BarbWire The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Barb Wire. The Secret Plan To Destroy Trumps Administration
Opinion Modal Trigger Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrives to speak on Sept. 12, 2012, on the killing of US Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens and three staff members at the US Consulate building in Benghazi, Libya, from the Treaty Room of the State Department. Hillary Clinton boasts that her experience traveling to 112 countries as secretary of state qualifies her to be president. Evidence shows she left the State Department in shambles and our nation weaker. Her record at Foggy Bottom disqualifies her to be president. Her failures go beyond leaving four Americans to die in Benghazi on Sept. 11, 2012, the ridiculous Russian reset and the carnage in Syria that she and President Obama idly watched unfold — and that gets more horrific daily. A string of investigative reports from the Obama administration shows that she botched key management jobs as secretary of state, threatening American lives and our diplomatic secrets. Clinton’s State Department repeatedly rebuffed requests for additional security for the vulnerable compound at Benghazi, Libya. Heavily armed terrorists were able to storm the compound and kill Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans. Clinton failed to secure diplomatic posts in Pakistan, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and other global hot spots. Internal State Department reports show the posts lacked emergency plans in case of attack. Guards assigned to them had no training in chemical or biological threats and, amazingly, some hadn’t undergone background checks. Clinton tried to weasel out of taking the blame for Benghazi, testifying to Congress that she wasn’t personally involved in embassy security. But emails later revealed that was false. Investigators also point to Clinton’s total neglect of cybersecurity. The Bush administration — reeling from the attack on the World Trade Center — had made it a top priority to protect information flow among embassies, the CIA and the FBI. But Clinton dropped the ball, creating what the department’s inspector general called undue risk in the management of information. In November 2013, the IG issued an alert to the State Department’s top executives about the urgent recurring weaknesses in cybersecurity that had been red-flagged in six previous reports between 2011 and 2013, almost all on Clinton’s watch. The recurring weaknesses had still not been addressed, including vulnerabilities to hackers. One of those previous reports — from July 2013 (shortly after Clinton’s departure) — described how much of the cybersecurity work was actually being done by contractors rather than department staff, contrary to government policy. According to an IG report, Bentel instructed his subordinates not to discuss the secretary’s email. Rudy Giuliani said on Saturday Clinton’s use of a private email service for official business was like taking all our top-secret material and throwing it out on Fifth Avenue. Outrageous, but still a lesser offense than Clinton’s neglect of the entire department’s digital security — exposing communications between thousands of agents and diplomats across the globe. Even after WikiLeaks released 250,0 confidential State Department documents in 2010, Clinton didn’t plug the obvious holes in State’s cyber setup. Yet during Monday’s debate, Clinton had the nerve to claim that she takes threats to the nation’s cybersecurity very seriously. Hillary’s management of finances at State was also slipshod, according to inspector general reports that point to a whopping $6 billion unaccounted for during her tenure. Clinton’s chaotic mismanagement created conditions conducive to fraud, the IG warned, and made it harder to punish and deter criminal behavior. True to Clinton’s instinct to cover up problems rather than fix them, she thwarted several investigations of sexual misconduct and prostitution at State. Investigators complained of an appearance of undue influence and favoritism. So what are the odds Hillary would run the federal government with integrity, keep the nation safe and get taxpayers more for their money? Betsy McCaughey is a senior fellow at the London Center for Policy Research.
Photo By Justin Images In response to Joyce Newman’s recent letter about a conversation about guns: According to the National Right to Life Organization, approximately 600,0 babies are murdered every year by Planned Parenthood with more than 52 million murdered since Roe v. Wade. This makes Planned Parenthood the biggest mass murderer in the history of the world. Is she willing to have a serious conversation about that? More people die every year from overdoses or auto accidents then from guns. More people die every year from obesity then from guns. The left’s obsession with gun control is just that, control. It has always been about Democrats wanting to control every aspect of your life. They support Planned Parenthood but go ballistic when a gun is used to kill someone. It’s the old game of don’t pay any attention to what’s going on over there, but look what’s happening here.
Donald Trump There is apparently nothing wrong with America that can’t be blamed on Donald Trump. His habit of saying things that nobody ever said before is forcing reporters to unleash their partisan views instead of just giving the facts. Some of these charges may be true, but the one about Trump changing journalism is demonstrably false. Dean Baquet, the Gray Lady’s boss for two years, recently claimed that Trump’s campaign had forced the paper into a new way of covering politics. He will have changed journalism, he really will have. In fact, it is just another example of the Times getting it all wrong. Trump didn’t change the Times — Baquet did. I think that Trump has ended that struggle, Baquet boasted. We write it more powerfully that it’s false. This is not a mere continuation of the old liberal bias that infected the Times, the Washington Post and the broadcast networks for years. This is a malignant strain of conformity that strips away any pretense of fairness in favor of strident partisanship. In his August piece, Jim Rutenberg declared that most reporters saw Trump as an abnormal and potentially dangerous candidate, and concluded they had a duty to be true to the facts, in a way that will stand up to history’s judgment. Baquet, in the interview, cited the Rutenberg piece, saying it nailed his thinking. I think he made us — forced us, because he does it so often, to get comfortable with saying something is false. Baquet offered another example that got him to this point. It is not incidental that his examples all involve allegedly dishonest Republicans, and none involves dishonest Democrats. And once standards are gone, they are gone forever, meaning anyone wanting to work at the Times will face a political litmus test. Baquet’s defense of slanted coverage is reflected in the trove of emails WikiLeaks released from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Times reporters and columnists repeatedly show up in partisan ways. A Washington reporter gives Hillary Clinton veto power over quotations he can use from an interview. Another reporter is praised as someone who has never disappointed in delivering stories the campaign wants teed up for public consumption. 1: Has the mayor or his lawyer been informed that de Blasio is a target of federal and state investigations? 2: Has the mayor been ordered to testify before a grand jury? 3: Did the mayor ask teachers union president Michael Mulgrew for the $350,0 contribution the union gave to de Blasio’s political slush fund, the Campaign for One New York, a month before the union got a $9 billion contract? 4: Did de Blasio or his wife, Chirlane McCray, personally receive any money, gifts or other things of significant value from the consultants paid millions of dollars by the Campaign for One New York? How much, if any, taxpayer money has been spent representing them? The reporters in Room 9, the legendary home of the City Hall press corps, should ask these questions every day until they get answers. First, the emails reveal the greed and backstabbing among the Clinton clan. Second, the claim that the messages are forged or a Russian plot illustrate how the family fudges facts it can’t deny. Dem’s truth on voter fraud Alan Schulkin will never eat lunch in New York again.
John Legend has added his voice against those speaking out against disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, who has been accused of sexual harassment, assault and rape by multiple women in Hollywood. He was recently fired from the Weinstein Company but has reportedly vowed to continue making movies. TMZ spoke with Legend and asked for his thoughts on the matter. He said: I think he did some despicable things and he is rightfully being shamed for it. He shouldn’t be working in Hollywood if he’s abusing his position that way. I think it’s good we’re bringing light to this issue and hopefully more women will be able to tell their stories. Men need to listen and change their behavior.
UPDATE May 22, 2018: The Little Rock Police Department has recovered human remains in Chalamont Park, the last place Ebby Steppach was seen. But before she could make talk to cops -- she vanished. Ebby went to a party on a Friday night and had been assaulted, and there was a videotape," said Ebbys mother Laurie Jernigan. And its the beginning of a nightmare for her and her family. " Laurie Jernigan says her daughter Ebby is a joy to have around. She did have bad influences on her life, some that I didnt know," said Laurie. The next morning Ebby sends a frightening text message to her friend Gage Fulton. Videotaped during a sexual encounter -- Ebby doesnt tell Gage who did it. But he tells Vickers that she is horrified and confused. Fulton: "She said she felt forced into it. Her last text message to me is I am going to go kill myself." She is enraged, and plans to do something about it. I called over to her grandparents to ask if she was over there. So he hung up and says cool and he goes out there and shes not there. But police are not saying exactly where or if anyone was in the car with her. " No matter how hard I tried I could not get detectives to do anything about it," said Laurie. Not only that, Ebbys family says they still dont know if some of the people who were with her at that party have even been questioned by police. Ebby Steppach, 18, has been missing for weeks after disappearing on Oct. 25, 2015. And the alarming possibility that she has been sex-trafficked haunts everyone who knows this case. If shes not with us anymore, shes in peace." The last thing that we need to do is to run out here and start our own investigation and interfere with the police investigation in some way, so we basically did nothing other than try to communicate with the police department and stay in communication with the family," said Vickers. Then a few days later I run into her again with another young black gentleman. And the third time she was back with another couple gentlemen." After I saw the pictures of her later on, of course -- I didnt have a name at the time." He was about five-foot-six, five-seven, had long dreads," said And his eyewitness account is about to go ballistic when we show him what weve brought along with us. Which individual was the one kissing and hugging Ebby? " The man with the dreadlocks is Keith Pruiett, 21, of Little Rock. Police in Arkansas have not connected him with Ebbys disappearance. Both men are currently in jail in Louisiana awaiting trial, and we have been not been able to contact them or anyone representing them. Im trying to find him and Im going to call the assigned detective and give him this also," Moore said.
Workers have started putting up stand for President Trumps inauguration outside the White House Donald Trump’s first week The Republican billionaire made a victory speech in New York yesterday, just after Hillary Clinton conceded defeat to him by phone. Mr Trump promised to put America first, saying: I will be President for all Americans and this is so important for me. He later tweeted: The forgotten man and woman will never be forgotten again. We will all come together as never before. The real estate developer is due to meet outgoing President Barack Obama at the White House today to discuss the transfer of power. Despite their differences, Mr Obama said: "We are now all rooting for his success in leading and uniting the country." Mr Trump, who has never governed before, is also starting putting together a top team to run his administration. Hillary Clinton gave an emotional speech yesterday, saying: "This is painful and will be for a long time." Donald Trump’s first months Over the next two months, Mr Trump will get ready to take power before he enters the White House on January 20. His victory will be confirmed though an Electoral College vote and he will official announced as the next President on January 6. Mr Trump will also work to repair relations with the Republican Party, which has retaken control of the Senate and House of Representatives. House speaker Paul Ryan said: We are eager to work hand-in-hand with the new administration to advance an agenda to improve the lives of the American people." One of his first battles with Congress is likely to be over his controversial plans to build a vast wall along the border with Mexico. How the US election process works Donald Trump’s first 100 days Once in the White House, Mr Trump will immediately set about undoing as much of Mr Obama’s legacy as possible. He has proposed bringing Congress back for a special session to repeal Obamacare - the outgoing President’s landmark health reforms. In his first 24 hours as President, Mr Trump has pledged to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions of the world. He also says he will begin removing more than two million illegal immigrants from America and introduce extreme vetting. Wed, November 9, 2016 After Donald Trump won the US election he made this statement We will get along with all the nations that get along with us." we look at how Europe reacted to the shock victory of Trump After Donald Trump won the US election he made this statement We will get along with all the nations that get along with us." we look at how Europe reacted to Trumps triumph Other immediate actions include tax cuts, appoint a new Justice to the Supreme Court and axing funding for UN climate change projects. He will also announce the US’s withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and start reviewing all of America’s trade deals. The new President has vowed to rip up trade deals that do not serve Americas interests. He has attacked the US free trade deal with Mexico and Canada. Mr Trump will also start to develop relationships with world leaders and looks set to have good relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
PHOTO: Instagram Dont freak out the next time you see President Barack Obama sans wedding ring—he and Michelle are still #goals. In fact, the reason why Obama often goes ringless has us loving the First Couple—who recently celebrated their 24th wedding anniversary on October 3—all the more. It appears that President Obama keeps his left-hand naked because he wants to keep his most precious valuable safe, and doesnt want to risk anything happening to his wedding band. A video recently surfaced on the Washington Post of President Obama discreetly slipping off his wedding ring and placing it in his pocket as he approached a small crowd to shake hands—seemingly indicating that he wants to keep it close and out of any potential harms way. ( Even with all of the Secret Service agents surrounding him, Obama still takes the utmost precautions with his beloved wedding ring. However, if Obama were to lose his wedding ring—say it slips out of his pocket—he could always call the Ring Finders.
At Price Hill Chili Restaurant in Hamilton County, Ohio, Tuesday morning, they served up hot coffee, scrambled eggs and a side of politics. CBS News correspondent Michelle Miller asked voters there whether the FBI’s decision to re-open Hillary Clinton’s email investigation is changing any minds. I am really rooting for Trump this year, said another. Watch the video above for more reaction from swing state voters.
Ia bertujuan meningkatkan tentangannya terhadap pengiktirafan Baitulmaqdis sebagai ibu negara Israel oleh Donald Trump. ISTANBUL: Presiden Turki, Recep Tayyip Erdogan menyatakan kesediaan Turki membuka kedutaannya di Baitumaqdis Timur dalam usaha meningkatkan tentangan terhadap pengiktirafan kota itu sebagai ibu negara Israel oleh Presiden Donald Trump. Erdogan sebelum ini mengetuai kecaman umat Islam terhadap langkah AS itu dengan mengadakan sidang kemuncak bersama pemimpin Pertubuhan Kerjasama Islam (OIC) minggu lalu di Istanbul, yang menggesa dunia mengiktiraf Baitulmaqdis sebagai ibu negara Palestin. Baitulmaqdis Timur dikuasai Israel selepas dirampas dalam perang 1967, tindakan yang tidak pernah diiktiraf oleh masyarakat antarabangsa. Kerana ia diduduki, kita tidak boleh ke sana dan membuka kedutaan, kata Erdogan dalam ucapan kepada partinya di kota Karaman. Tetapi, Insya Allah hari tersebut hampir tiba dan … kita akan secara rasminya membuka kedutaan kita di sana, katanya tanpa memberikan tarikh yang tepat. Turki kini mempunyai konsulat umum di Baitulmadis. Ankara turut mempunyai hubungan diplomatik penuh dengan Israel, dan seperti negara lain, kedutaannya berada di Tel Aviv. Erdogan yang membantah keputusan Trump termasuk memindahkan kedutaan Amerika Syarikat (AS) ke Baitulmaqdis berkata ia sejajar logik dan pemahaman zionis dan evangelis. Beliau berkata orang Yahudi tidak mempunyai hak untuk merampas Baitulmaqdis yang merupakan ibu negara umat Islam. Sila berhenti di mana anda berada dan jangan cuba melakukan operasi zionis, katanya. Jika anda cuba, anda harus membayarnya dengan harga yang mahal. Erdogan memuji hasil sidang OIC pada 13 Disember lalu yang katanya menunjukkan dunia memilih untuk bersatu. Bagaimanapun sekutu AS iaitu Arab Saudi dan Emiriyah Arab Bersatu hanya menghantar pegawai rendah, bukan pegawainya menghadiri sidang tersebut. Erdogan memberi amaran kepada umat Islam dalam ucapannya agar menentang perang saudara di mana pertempuran antara satu sama lain hanya membantu negara pengganas seperti Israel. Israel bertindak balas dengan kenyataan Erdogan beberapa hari kemudian. Perdana Menteri Israel Benjamin Netanyahu berkata beliau tidak terkesan dengan kenyataan tersebut. Ketika dihubungi AFP, jurucakap kementerian luar Israel enggan memberi komen mengenai kenyataan terkini Erdogan. Bantahan berlaku hampir setiap hari di Turki terhadap langkah Trump. Di kebanyakan bandar di tenggara Diyarbakir, Kurdish, beribu-ribu orang mengibar bendera Palestin dan melaungkan slogan seperti pembunuhan beramai-ramai tidak akan berhenti jika semua umat Islam tidak bersatu. Dalam ucapan berasingan, Perdana Menteri Binali Yildirim berkata mulai sekarang kita mengisytiharkan Timur Baitulmuqaddis yang diduduki sebagai ibu negara Palestin, sambil menambah Turki ingin melihat penyelesaian untuk Baitulmaqdis yang akan memuaskan hati kedua-dua belah pihak dalam konflik itu. Jurucakap Erdogan, Ibrahim Kalin – penasihat dasar luar negeri utama presiden – menulis dalam akhbar bahawa langkah Trump mewakili campuran bertoksin populisme dan unilateralisme. Menerusi Daily Sabah pula, beliau menulis salah satu akibat positif ialah isu rakyat Palestin sekali lagi menjadi pusat perdebatan global. Momentum baharu ini harus digunakan untuk mencari keamanan yang adil dan berkekalan, kata Kalin. Tahun lepas, Turki dan Israel mengakhiri perselisihan yang dicetuskan Israel pada 2010 yang menyebabkan 10 aktivis Turki mati selain ketegangan diplomatik. Kedua-dua pihak sejak itu meningkatkan kerjasama, terutamanya melalui pelan saluran paip gas yang diketuai menantu Erdogan dan Menteri Tenaga, Berat Albayrak. Tetapi Erdogan yang menganggap dirinya sebagai Wira Palestin membuat serangan lisan terhadap dasar Israel. OIC akan mengadakan mesyuarat tergempar di Turki pada 13 Disember ini bagi menyelaraskan respons terhadap keputusan Washington. Trump mungkin sedang mewujudkan satu platform untuk meminta konsesi daripada Israel nanti.
Image via South Park is one of televisions longest-running shows, a 20-seasons-and-counting award-winning cultural behemoth that has spawned movies, imitations, and countless time-wasting memes. Our conversation, edited lightly for length and clarity, is below. It treats PC culture as [if] the opposite of PC culture is not to care about anything. In your article you trace a history of that attitude, starting with the misinterpretation of a character in an Oliver Stone movie. Wall Street was supposed to be an indictment of Wall Street and the type of person that thinks greed is good. For a long time, our capitalist society has led up to this idea that the ultimate goal is to collect as much wealth as possible. The original title of this article I pitched was actually "The History of Celebrated Assholes." It’s really interesting to learn the kind of things he talked about. I think white people at the time looked at that as being shocking, and that’s why he was labeled as a shock jock. He promoted education and feeding the hungry. He wasn’t an asshole, but history is very interesting. Howard Stern was actually invited onto his show. Howard Stern, I’m sure, has done some good stuff in his life. I think it’s interesting how you have that transition from somebody who was just being real and communicating to his people in a way that made sense to him; and then you have Howard Stern, who makes a lot of money—and in fact an entire career—from pissing people off. White supremacist groups and their better-at-PR counterpart the "alt-right" use this message constantly to recruit young white men and boys. Just like with Wall Street, the people who view your content take the literal meaning of something instead of taking it as the indictment that it is. You aren’t supposed to identify with him. You’re supposed to hate him, or at least understand he is the opposite of the ideal of a human being. That is supposed to be represented in his bigotry, his ignorance, and his appearance as well, with him being fat. He has become a representation of how the fans feel that you should be. Like I said in the article, there has been a rebellion against this idea of being PC. South Park has had some really transphobic content. Even before the Caitlyn Jenner episode, there was the whole treatment of Mr. Garrison and his sex change. But any surgery looks gross and disgusting. You see a huge amount of transphobia from a lot of alt-right groups. You have these bathroom bills that are trying to keep trans people out of public restrooms, which is basically keeping them out of public life. The sudden emergence of the bathroom bills surprised me, but maybe it shouldn’t have. You end your essay with a call for what you call radical kindness. I feel like a lot of what my generation, millennials, has put out there has been negative. In a society where being mean to each other is the norm, kindness is punk.
Luis Ruiz is a fifth-degree black belt in karate and a martial arts instructor. His stepson, Antonio Pina, happens to be a third-degree black belt. Perhaps it was that the two men knew they could handle themselves that they fearlessly engaged with an attacker. One night, they were walking to their home in Brooklyn, NY. When they looked around, they noticed a woman being brutally beaten by a man. We notice that he’s grabbing her and slamming her on the ground, Ruiz told CBS. The father told his son to call for help. So I say ‘hey, is everything OK, are you guys OK?’ The guy gets up like nothing, turns to his right and walks away like he wasn’t doing anything wrong, he said. Ruiz then comforted the woman, whose face, he says, was swollen beyond recognition and bloodied. The father and son were able to identify the attacker as Todd Deas. Police say he had 19 prior arrests, including rape and sexual abuse, and had recently been released on parole. Had they not been there, who knows what would have happened. I’d rather think we just did the right thing, and that everyone in the neighborhood and in the world would do the right thing, Ruiz said. Please SHARE if you think what Ruiz and his son did was very brave! Due to restrictions, this video cannot be viewed in your region.
US President Barack Obama and President-elect Donald Trump meet in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC. President-elect Donald Trump and future First Lady Melania Trump are meeting with President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama at the White House and are expected to discuss efforts toward a smooth transition of power. President elect Donald Trump , with his wife Melania Trump, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, gives the thumbs up after a meeting in the Majority Leaders office in the US Capitol in Washington, DC. Earlier in the day President elect Trump met with US President Barack Obama and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan.
CreditCreditWin Images You can see where this is headed, the once bright and shiny democracy going down the drain before the holidays are out. The Russians, the special counsel Robert S. Mueller I and his agents, desperate men flipped and singing to save their souls — all may soon be gone, by President Trump’s design. If there’s any outrage left in the tank, use it now, because Trump has signaled exactly what he’s going to do. So, before Trump can fire the prosecutor who is hot on the corruption trail of those in the president’s inner circle, he needs a pretext. He could just work his way down the line at the Justice Department, until he found a quisling willing to remove the special counsel. But before he gets to that, he has to delegitimize the whole investigation. Thus, he’s now attacking the F.B.I., saying the agency is in Tatters and its standing the worst in History. When you’re attacking F.B.I. agents because you’re under criminal investigation, you’re losing, she tweeted. Sorry — that was Sarah Huckabee Sanders of a year ago, before she was paid to defend the liar in chief. See, when the president does it, it’s not a crime. This defense was floated during the two impeachment episodes of the 20th century. They don’t appear to be the least bit troubled by a stunning report from a whistle-blower. With Trump in, the sanctions against Russia would be ripped up, clearing the way for big money to be made on the inside, according to the report made public Wednesday. Ignoring that story, Trump’s media wing is doing its job. Sean Hannity, at state-run television, went on a vein-popping rant Tuesday against law enforcement, complete with conspiracy charts. He called the federal authorities a team of so-called investigators. As for their boss, he said that Mueller is frankly a disgrace to the American justice system and has put the country on the brink of becoming a banana republic. He’s certainly learned the art of projection from his master. The Wall Street Journal, channeling its owner and Trump whisperer Rupert Murdoch, has been making much of the same case, albeit without the spittle. Or they did until he started closing in on Trump’s closest associates. Mueller should be fired, the Russian enablers now claim, because one of his agents said some bad things about Trump. This agent, Peter Strzok, was reassigned over the summer, as soon as his comments came to light. The cops I know, a couple of longstanding friends, have more opinions than I. The facts are what matter. And the facts are pointing in a very bad direction for the gang that can’t collude straight. Trump has got to be sweating it; he was said to be seething when two of his campaign aides were indicted and a third pleaded guilty in October. He looked punch-drunk at recent public events. Now that he’s a felon from a guilty plea last week, Flynn is cooperating with Mueller. Trump could pardon him and try to bring him back into the fold. If Trump fires Mueller, he can start the new year clean. Though voters believe, by a nearly 2-1 margin, that Russians interfered with the United States election, Republicans do not.
Following the latest FBI developments in Hillary Clinton’s email probe, Donald Trump ripped the Justice Department and top Clinton aide Huma Abedin on Saturday, firing off a tirade during his triumphant swing through western states. It’s reported today, this morning that the Department of Justice was fighting the FBI, Trump said in Golden, Colorado. And that’s because the Department of Justice is trying so hard to protect Hillary. Trump was referencing reports that Attorney General Loretta Lynch recommended that FBI Director James Comey not publicly disclose the new emails -- what the Justice Department viewed as a violation of its long-standing practice not to comment on ongoing investigations. There are those, and I happen to be one of them, who think Hillary offered Loretta Lynch a reappointment as attorney general. Offering no proof, the Republican nominee posited that Clinton’s husband, former President Bill Clinton, had bribed Lynch with the position when the two had an impromptu meeting earlier this summer on a plane in Arizona. The two met just days before the FBI completed its probe into the private email server. Perhaps, just perhaps, of course he said he only talked about golf and the grandchildren, but he was on the plane for 39 minutes, he went to Arizona, an unbelievable place, but there are those who think when he went onto the plane that’s what he discussed just prior to a decision being made, Trump said. The New York real estate mogul then trained his biting attacks on Abedin and her husband, former Democratic Congressman Anthony Weiner. The emails tied to the Clinton probe were found on the separated couple’s electronic devices from a separate FBI investigation into Weiner’s sexting scandal. Did I call him correctly, did anybody see? Trump asked, pointing to his prior criticisms of Weiner. It’s called good judgement, it’s called good instincts. If you check out the tweets, or if you check out whatever it is I wrote about him, it is so perfect, I said. And that was done a long time ago, but they found, by looking at Anthony Weiner, a major, major, major sleaze, they found what may be some of the 33,0 missing and deleted emails. Trump has, in the past, wondered whether Abedin was a national security concern because of her relationship to Weiner. [ Abedin’s] receiving very, very important information and giving it to Hillary. Her husband has serious problems and on top of that, he now works for a public relations firm. So how can she be married to this guy who’s got these major problems? She’s getting her most important information, it could be, in the world. Trump’s speculation on what the newly surfaced emails contained, however, remains unfounded. The FBI has yet to release any further details about the information found in the emails. Clinton’s campaign, in the meantime, has defended Abedin, with campaign chair John Podesta telling reporters on a conference call that the staff stands behind her. There’s no evidence of wrongdoing, no charge of wrongdoing, no indication that this was even about Hillary, Podesta said Saturday. He added that Comey’s letter to top Republicans in the House and Senate was long on innuendo and short on facts. Podesta added that Comey knew full well what Republicans in Congress would do with it and blasted House Oversight Committee Chair Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, in particular for taking the opportunity to distort the facts. CBS News’ Hannah Fraser-Chanpong contributed to this report.
Donald Trump has, finally, all but united the Republican Party – in denunciation of his continued, race-based attacks on U.S. District Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is presiding over the civil lawsuits against the candidate’s Trump University. I regret those comments that [Trump] made, said House Speaker Paul Ryan during a press conference Tuesday. Claiming a person can’t do their job because of their race is sort of like the textbook definition of a racist comment … it’s absolutely unacceptable. And Sen. Mark Kirk, a Republican from Illinois facing a tough reelection battle this year, flat out withdrew his support for his party’s nominee, saying Donald Trump’s belief that an American-born judge of Mexican descent is incapable of fairly presiding over his case is not only dead wrong, it is un-American. Last week, Trump charged that his plan to build a wall between the U.S.-Mexican border was an absolute conflict of interest, charging to the Wall Street Journal that Curiel could not preside fairly over the Trump University case because he is of Mexican heritage. ( Curiel was born in Indiana to Mexican immigrants.) Speaking again to CNN’s Jake Tapper last Friday, Trump maintained his position: He’s a Mexican. We’re building a wall between here and Mexico. When Tapper asked if, by saying that Curiel could not due his job because of his race, is that not the definition of racism? Trump responded, No, I don’t think so at all. Amid the fierce backlash from his own party, Trump put together a damage-control statement late Tuesday promising not to say anything more about Curiel or the lawsuit – after this: It is unfortunate that my comments have been misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage. I am friends with and employ thousands of people of Mexican and Hispanic descent. … While this lawsuit should have been dismissed, it is now scheduled for trial in November. I do not intend to comment on this matter any further. Just one day earlier, Trump encouraged supporters on a private conference call on Monday to join his chorus by publicly questioning the judge’s credibility, two participants on the call told Bloomberg Politics. Several Republican politicians, including former Massachusetts senator Scott Brown, were involved in the call, during which Trump overturned a Sunday email from his staff that ordered his most prominent supporters – those surrogates who speak for him on cable news talk shows and at campaign appearances – to cease all talk of the lawsuit and Curiel. Take that order and throw it the hell out, Trump said on the call, according to Bloomberg Politics. Is Hillary Clinton Intimidated by Donald Trump? Numerous other prominent Republicans have joined Ryan in disavowing Trump’s sentiments, including South Carolina’s junior senator Tim Scott – the Senate’s only black Republican – who told CNN the commentary is racially toxic. Added Arnold Schwarzenegger on Twitter, Judge Curiel is an American hero who stood up to the Mexican cartels. I was proud to appoint him when I was Gov. Freshly-minted presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton also issued a warning on Monday that Trump may next focus his attacks on women judges … or maybe a judge with a disability, or perhaps one who was a former POW, or African-American. He’s trying to demean and defame a federal judge who was a very accomplished federal prosecutor, she continued on MSNBC. This is dangerous nonsense that undermines the rule of law, that makes him appear to be someone who has no respect for fellow Americans, Clinton said. And I think it is yet more evidence why this man is dangerous and divisive and disqualified from being president.
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** A self-proclaimed Alt-Left leader has vowed to use a baseball bat embedded with nails to crush skulls during a Patriot Prayer peace rally set to take place in San Francisco this weekend. The Twitter user, who goes by the handle @ibPrinceJordan, tweeted, The Patriot Prayer rally is a nazi white supremacist event. He repeated the threat in a series of other tweets that have now been deleted. Going to bring this nailed bat for some nazi pounding, read one. The user is located in San Francisco, which is where the event will take place at Crissy Field on Saturday, suggesting he does indeed plan to attend the march. His Twitter bio reads, Alt-Left resistance leader. Many Americans In The Dark About These BIG "Federal Rent Checks" Despite numerous other prominent Twitter users drawing attention to the violent threat, the account has not been suspended. What makes the threat even more absurd is that organizers of the Patriot Prayer rally have specifically said its aim is to promote peace, love and unity, and that racists are not welcome. The leader of the Patriot Prayer rally, Joey Gibson, has vehemently denounced neo-nazis, yelling F*** white supremacists! Even the SPLC, which routinely tars conservatives with a broad brush, does not consider Patriot Prayer to be a hate group, reports Fox News. Anyone to the right of Michael Moore is fair game for violent assault. Remember, in the aftermath of Charlottesville, the mainstream media relentlessly attacked Trump for saying both sides were responsible for violence, tacitly endorsing the violent alt-left. CNN even changed a headline at the request of Antifa to disguise the fact that the group routinely engages in violence. Given that the mainstream media has emboldened unhinged thugs by exalting them as anti-fascists, any violence that occurs at the Patriot Prayer rally will be their responsibility. Facebook: .j.watson.71 ********************* Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.
Sen. Richard Durbin discusses President Trumps immigration comments following the City of Chicagos 32nd Annual Interfaith Breakfast commemorating the life of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. on Jan. 12, 2018. ( No compatible source was found for this media. Whether now or in the future, you will be asked this question: What did you say? Did you call out the obvious racism behind those statements? Did you acknowledge that the leader of the free world — by title, anyway — had shown himself to be a white supremacist, casually expressing his dislike of brown-skinned immigrants and preference for white European immigrants? Were you outraged that such comments from a sitting president were antithetical to the ideals that have always made America a beacon of hope and opportunity? Did you denounce the comments, as Rep. Mia Love, a Utah Republican whose parents came to America from Haiti, did, saying in a statement: This behavior is unacceptable from the leader of our nation. … The President must apologize to both the American people and the nations he so wantonly maligned. Trump’s has been a presidency filled with jaw-dropping moments of offensive behavior, but this one will stand out over time, both for its profane nature and its naked racism. Did you toss out a Well, what about … scenario you thought might take the heat off? Did you scream something about identity politics and try to pretend that this is the fault of others, not the fault of the transparently racist old man in the White House? Did you say, Well, those countries are shitholes, aren’t they? Did you forget how people once described immigrants from Italy and Ireland? Did you forget the words on a plaque at the Statue of Liberty? Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door! Did you forget those words, or just ignore them? Did you not put the pieces together and consider all the other times Trump has shown us exactly who he is? Did you tamp down memories of his calls for the execution of the Central Park Five, even after the young men, four black and one Latino, were found innocent? Did you disregard his years-long birther crusade against the nation’s first black president? His description of Mexican immigrants as rapists and criminals? His regular criticism that immigrants coming from predominately nonwhite nations are examples of those countries’ worst people? Did you not let yourself see the pattern? Did you twist logic into knots and blame it on the media? What did you say when our president called other countries shitholes and you had to shield your children’s ears from profanity on the nightly news? What did you tell your children about this moment? How did you explain the president’s words? Because you will be asked this again someday. And if you laughed, or if you smiled, or if you nodded your head in agreement, you will be remembered just as Trump will: as a racist, a fool and an absolute embarrassment. rhuppke@chicagotribune.com RELATED President Trump owes the country an apology » What happened when I followed Trumps example and started lying all the time » Trump attacks protections for immigrants from shithole countries in Oval Office meeting »
"Day One" is a multi-part series in which CBS News Margaret Brennan speaks with former U.S. government officials on the major foreign policy issues the next president will inherit on the first day of their presidency. The next president will face countless challenges on day one. Among the biggest is the ongoing civil war in Syria. Margaret Brennan spoke with Leon Panetta -- a former CIA director, defense secretary, and White House chief of staff -- about the road ahead for U.S. involvement in the war-torn nation. LEON PANETTA: Inaction is not an option in Syria because if you stand back, the situation is gonna get worse. And then, frankly, have the Russians and whatever is left of the Syrian forces join with the United States in going after ISIS to truly defeat them. MARGARET BRENNAN: What are the odds of that? PANETTA: The worst-case scenario is that Assad continues to remain in power, continues to kill Syrians. That refugees continue to flow out of Syria, that the Russians continue to have a presence there and continue to attack our moderate forces that were trying to train in Syria. And that ISIS then uses that and creates an even bigger base from which to conduct attacks against this country. BRENNAN: Sounds like youre describing whats happening now. And its what can continue to happen in the future if we dont deal with it. BRENNAN: There are around 300 special operators in Syria right now. Will the next president have to commit more American boots on the ground? PANETTA: I think the likelihood is that the next president is gonna have to consider adding additional special forces on the ground to try to assist those moderate forces that are taking on ISIS, and that are taking on Assads forces. Weve got to do all of those things in order to put increasing pressure on ISIS but also on Assad. We cant surrender one objective for the other. Weve gotta continue to press on both fronts. BRENNAN: Is it possible to defeat ISIS without challenging Assad? PANETTA: I think its very difficult as weve seen to conduct effective operations against ISIS when were dealing with Assads forces pressing us in different places. And when were dealing with the Russians who go in and literally bomb the very forces that were training to go after Assad and to go after ISIS. We cannot have that situation continue in the future. PANETTA: We are hoping upon hope that the Russians will do the right thing. Theyre not gonna do the right thing without pressure. Theyre not gonna do the right thing without giving our diplomats greater leverage than what they have now to deal with the Russians. To do that we have got to make very clear that we have objectives to achieve, that we intend to press to achieve those objectives, and that we will not allow them to divert us from the goals of defending ourselves. Heres where the candidates stand: Hillary Clinton wants to increase airstrikes against ISIS. She said she would arm the moderate rebels, and pressure Russia to get out of Syria. We should add that Panetta is advising the Clinton campaign. Donald Trump has announced hed declare war on ISIS, and he wouldnt rule out more U.S. troops on the ground -- although he offered few details.
The world Is watching and so is oil as the death toll rises in the streets of Iran, where the people revolt against a terrible economy and the lack of any real freedoms and rights. President Trump tweeted that Iran is failing at every level despite the terrible deal made with them by the Obama Administration. The great Iranian people have been repressed for many years. They are hungry for food &amp; for freedom. Along with human rights, the wealth of Iran is being looted. The uprising in IRAN is just another risk factor in a global oil market that is tightening. Total oil stocks are down a whopping 135M barrels just since April even as U.S. oil production is supposedly at a record high. That is a dangerous situation, especially because of the over estimates of shale oil output. ETF reports that this has led to the lowest ever volumes of oil discoveries in 2017, Rystad Energy said last week. In ten years’ time, U.S. shale production may peak, at least according to OPEC that sees shale peaking after 2025, although the cartel has conceded that U.S. tight oil has defied previous forecasts and has increased production more than initially expected and will continue to do so in the short-term. This year has seen less than 7 billion barrels of oil equivalent discovered globally, a volume as low as last seen in the 1940s, Rystad Energy has estimated. Rafael Ramirez, who was the all-powerful head of the oil ministry and state energy company PDVSA for a decade, has long been a rival of Maduro. Wicked winter weather is causing a surge in oil and natural gas and coal demand. The report said that large parts of northern Alberta was under a state of emergency over the weekend due to low natural gas pressure and system outages. The Energy Report has kept our bullish outlook and we still believe that the double bottom at $26 a barrel was a generational low. Despite all the bearish hype that the market had last year and bad info this year oil looks poised for a big move. I am hearing from many folks still that were underhedged last year and are now paying the price. Member NIBA, NFA Past results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Investing in futures can involve substantial risk of loss &amp; is not suitable for everyone. Trading foreign exchange also involves a high degree of risk. The leverage created by trading on margin can work against you as well as for you, and losses can exceed your entire investment. Before opening an account and trading, you should seek advice from your advisors as appropriate to ensure that you understand the risks and can withstand the losses. The information and data in this report were obtained from sources considered reliable. Their accuracy or completeness is not guaranteed and the giving of the same is not to be deemed as an offer or solicitation on our part with respect to the sale or purchase of any securities or futures. The Price Futures Group, its officers, directors, employees, and brokers may in the normal course of business have positions, which may or may not agree with the opinions expressed in this report. Reproduction distribution of any portion of this report are strictly prohibited without the written permission of the author. Trading in futures contracts, options on futures contracts, and forward contracts is not suitable for all investors and involves substantial risks. The MoneyShow Orlando is coming in February. Sign up for my class talking about a historic bottom in oil and what it means for your future. Time Is running out Go to Flynn.OrlandoMoneyShow.com.
Anonymous have denied claims that they hacked the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer, after a post appeared claiming that the hacktivist group was now in control of the site. A post titled ‘END OF HATE: ANONYMOUS NOW IN CONTROL OF DAILY STORMER’ appeared on the far-right site earlier this morning, suggesting that Anonymous were going to bring an end to The Daily Stormer following the events of the Charlottesville Unite The Right rally, which saw white nationalists converge to protest plans to remove a Confederate statue. The rally led to multiple conflicts between the nationalists and counter-protesters, ultimately leading to the death of civil rights activist Heather Heyer, who was one of many hit by a vehicle driven by white supremacist James Alex Fields. Many outlets reported that Anonymous had infiltrated The Daily Stormer website in response to the events of Charlottesville, with the post on the site reading: WE HAVE TAKEN THIS SITE IN THE NAME OF HEATHER HEYER A VICTIM OF WHITE SUPREMACIST TERRORISM. FOR TOO LONG THE DAILY STORMER AND ANDREW ANGLIN HAVE SPEWED THEIR PUTRID HATE ON THIS SITE. However, Anonymous have stated that they believe the post was made by The Daily Stormer in a stunt designed to woo their clueless base. The clarifications were made by @YourAnonNews, the largest Anonymous Twitter account, who believe that The Daily Stormer had made the post themselves in order to explain away technical issues the site was experiencing, after web hosting company GoDaddy had banned them from using the service. We have no confirmation that "Anonymous" is involved yet. Wonder if they are having issues finding a new host. 5p — Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 This is likely to be the derps from dailystormer engaging in a silly troll to woo their clueless base. Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 And all the old content is left up by a "UNITED FORCE OF ELITE HACKERS" on a shit post site "UNDER THE CONTROL OF ANONYMOUS." Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 If goal of Daily Stormer was to get us to celebrate a BS claim, it backfired. Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) August 14, 2017 The neo-Nazi site has been given 24 hours to find a new host, otherwise it will be taken offline by GoDaddy. The post suggesting Anonymous were now in control of the site also stated that The Daily Stormer would be taken offline within 24 hours, suggesting that its creators are looking for a conspiratorial explanation as to why the site has disappeared if GoDaddy removes it from the internet.
Channel 4 have been accused of brownfacing in a row over a documentary showing a white woman disguised as a Muslim complete with darkened skin. Katie Freeman, 44, was given a prosthetic nose, fake teeth and darkened skin as she filmed My Week As A Muslim. The show documents Ms Freemans experiences in Manchester in the week after a terror attack at the citys arena that killed 22 people. Described as an attempt to challenge stereotypes, the show aimed to give the the 44-year-old a "chance to meaningfully walk in the shoes of someone from a different background." Katie Freeman starred in the documentary (Channel 4) However, when a trailer for the show aired on Tuesday, viewers took to social media to slam the nature of Ms Freemans disguise. Channel 4 has totally missed the mark here. Who on earth thought it would be a good idea to put prosthetics on somebody to make them a caricature of people of a different race (as if being white and Muslim are exclusive anyway)? Another bemused commenter simply wrote: "Did they.brownface her?" On Twitter, viewer Alice Beggs said: "Just saw Channel 4 have a show called My Week As A Muslim where this white woman has brownface and prosthetics so she can learn about racism etc. Because god forbid we just listen to Muslims when they tell us what abuse they get." Another criticised Channel 4 for not "actually following a Muslim poc (person of colour) and documenting their life, instead of doing this". Before Ms Freeman underwent the transformation, she admitted she would avoid sitting next to a Muslim on public transport because "you see them and think theyre going to blow something up", the Daily Mail reported. She later said she was shocked by the level of abuse she suffered in the course of the programme. During one incident in which someone shouted "f****** Muslims, in this town?" Ms Freeman lived with Saima Alvi, a Muslim woman, during filming for the show. The 49-year-old told of the abuse she suffers regularly. She said: "Its very humiliating that I am pigeon-holed or put in the same box as a terrorist. " What I have learnt is that there are genuinely nice people who are unfortunately misled about Islam." Speaking to the Daily Mail, Fiyaz Mughal, founder of community cohesion group Faith Matters, said: "This is trying to drive ratings by racial stereotyping. If you are trying to bridge divides, what message does it send to Muslim communities that people think of you in a certain way? That certain crude facial characteristics are what defines you as Asian?" The shows executive producer, Fozia Khan, defended the programme, told the Daily Mail: "The programme allowed Katie to meaningfully walk in the shoes of someone from a different background and to experience what it is like to be a part of the British Pakistani Muslim community rather than just observe as an outsider." My Week As A Muslim is due to be broadcast by Channel 4 on Monday at 9pm.
Are you tired of Liberals and lawmakers trying to undermine our Constitutional right to keep and bear arms? We must get ahead of this storm because it is bearing down on us in full force! They preach that we need more and more gun control every single time there is some sort of mass shooting, even though the mass shootings are nearly always a crazed Democrat. The gun used by Stephen Paddock in the Las Vegas massacre on Sunday was already an illegal gun! Further more going to show that gun control does not work. They will still have guns, even if they are illegal. As Sean Davis explains at the Federalist automatic weapons (or machine guns) are already banned or almost unattainable under existing federal law. Secondly, the concert was a gun free zone. Thirdly, Paddock would have had to have done a lot of work beforehand to prepare for this unspeakable act. There is nothing that Congress could do to stop someone as committed as Paddock was. Finally, Ben Shapiro of the Daily Wire explains that making policy on the heels of a terrible event is usually a bad idea. Gun control laws remove guns from law abiding citizens, so that they can no longer defend themselves, and emboldens criminals, who won’t follow the laws anyway. In other words, without guns, we are sitting ducks! Taking rights away from law-abiding citizens is not the solution! If you agree, and want to have your voice heard, sign the petition to Congress! 60 Celebrities Who Are Mega Trump Supporters - #20 Is Unbelievable! The views expressed in this opinion article are solely those of their author and are not necessarily either shared or endorsed by EagleRising.com
Junkbunny Who Tried Buying Xanax Off Turtleboy Tried Suing EMT After She Came After Him On An Ambulance Ride And Has Declared War On Turtle Riders Want to advertise with Turtleboy? Email us at Turtleboysports@gmail.com for more information. For the first time ever today two junkboxes messaged the Turtleboy business page to ask if we had Xanax for sale. One of them was Jessica Kane, who according to her Facebook page lives in Pawtucket, but she insists she lives in Smithfield, RI. Anyway, she reached out to us looking for zannies: But Jessica Kane was just warming up. As you can see she is alleging that we are the ones who solicited her to see if she wanted to buy drugs off us. She can’t afford health insurance, but cash money sure ain’t a problem: That right there is a lot of mushroom tip participation trophies! She kept posting a screenshot showing what appears to be us contacting her first, asking if she was looking for zannies. Thirteen years is a long time to be prescribed Xanax. And by prescribed she means, treated Diego to a basket lunch in exchange for illegal narcotics. She just so happens to message random community Facebook pages looking to score drugs. And occasionally she gets busted with crack cocaine: Besides that she’s totally NOT a junkie. Therefore she never got caught with crack cocaine. ( Because NOTHING IS MORE SERIOUS THAN CYBERBULLYING, EVEN ADDICTION! Good luck finding this sort of entertainment at Barstool. And in one of the greatest MSM fails of all time, NCB Investigative Team fell for her act hook, line, and sinker: That interview was amazing. The video shows an EMT lashing out at her, appearing to slap her in the face and swearing at her several times. He then smacked me across my face, Jessica Kane said of the July 30 incident. North Providence officers were responding to a domestic disturbance call when they came into contact with Kane, who is epileptic. They called the North Providence Fire Department for medical aid, and an ambulance arrived a short time later. As soon as I was put into the rescue, I was called a drug addict, which I am not, she said. It made me feel like the people here to treat me were there to just accuse me. She’s just been arrested for crack cocaine and messages random Facebook pages with 99,0 followers to see if they can sell her Xanax. The unidentified EMT can also be heard telling Kane to shut the (expletive) up. As of Wednesday, state police said they had not yet received the complaint or been contacted by Kane about the incident. Anyway, we were still confused how the hell Jessica Kane got the impression that we were zanny salesmen. Turns out there was a whole background story: You can’t make this shit up. From now on I think this is what you people should start doing: Brilliant. We urge you to support the following local businesses. They provide terrific services for the community!
The Aspiring Ashanti Regional Chairman of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) Alhaji Mohammed Sani has called on the founder of Liberal Party of Ghana (LPG) Kofi Akpaloo to publicly apologise to Northerners in Ghana for saying they can never be Presidents. Mr Akpaloo in a recent interview with Abusua Nkommo hosted by Kwame Adinkra said ‘no Ghanaian will vote for a Northerner to be a President of Ghana’ after the abysmal performance by the former President John Dramani Mahama in the 2016 elections. According to Akpaloo, Northerners who were given the nod to lead the country failed Ghanaians and that Ghanaians will not vote for Northerners in 2020 elections. But speaking on Abusua Nkommo with Kwame Adinkra, Alhaji Sani described as ‘misguided missile’ the tribal comment by Mr Akpaloo that Northerners cannot be in the helm of affairs of the country. He advised the founder of Liberal Party of Ghana to retract his statement warning to retaliate in equal measure if he fails to do so. ‘… This is a misguided missile by Akpaloo, his comment is an insult to Northerners, what research has he conducted to come out with such comment. If he has personal issues with John Mahama, he shouldn’t rope in all Northerners in his hatred. What kind of language is that, he should stop insulting a group of people, is he important than other people. ‘ He should withdraw and apologise, I am highly offended by his comment, if he refuses, I will be forced to wage war words against him,’ he stated. Alhaji Sani entreated Ghanaians to stop tagging people on tribal lines and judge them according to their performances.
Donald Trump will address the nation from New York City this evening as the president elect of the United States. The Trump campaign has been holding its election night party all night at the New York Hilton Midtown, with the festivities beginning at 6:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Trump’s supporters have become more and more energized as the hours have ticked on, and Trump will take the stage to address them soon. The speech can be viewed live in the embedded YouTube player via Right Side Broadcasting. It’s not currently known when Trump will take the stage, as we’re still awaiting for many more results to come in. But at about 1:00 a.m., Decision Desk HQ officially made their call that Donald Trump has been elected president, and it looks incredibly unlikely that the election will end any other way at this point. It’s difficult to overstate how monumental of an event this is in the history of American politics. Donald Trump went into this election night being seen as having no real shot at the White House, with many Democrats not even expecting the race to be remotely close. Trump has pulled off what will likely go down as the most shocking political upset in history, and the election result proved nearly every single poll and electoral projection wrong. In fact, it seemed for a while that even Donald Trump himself wasn’t sure that he was going to win the election. After all, when he was asked during the presidential debate whether he would concede to Hillary Clinton if he loses, Trump refused to commit to doing so, saying, I’ll keep you in suspense seemingly because part of him doubted he could pull this thing off. Obviously, conceding to Hillary Clinton is no longer an issue. So what will Trump say in his speech tonight? Both supporters and detractors alike are hoping for the new president to start to heal the divide after an incredibly heated and contentious election cycle. It’s also unknown how Donald Trump may address Hillary Clinton, his opponent who he has repeatedly said should be in jail. Hillary Clinton is also expected to speak from the Javits Center in New York City, although many of her supporters have already left the arena in tears. Read more about Donald Trump and Melania in Spanish at AhoraMismo.com: Join over 240,0 people who get the most important news stories and the best shopping deals from Heavy – Delivered right to your inbox.
I had two liberal colleagues at the CIA who believed in global warming and neither had any proof to justify their opinions. By Joe Boatwright: I’m amazed that there is still an argument surrounding global warming. Conclusively, none of any of their global warming predictions have come to fruition. Why should conservatives continue to debate liberals on this topic? Firstly, conservatives should always try to stop any insanity from the left, no matter what the subject. So unfortunately, the right must respond against these arguments (again, no matter how absurd). Rush Limbaugh agreed by positing another reason: The only reason we’re even talking about global warming — well, the real only reason — is its part of the left’s agenda of expanding government worldwide, raising taxes worldwide, and a key ingredient of this is blaming average citizens for the problem. We should not allow them to blame anyone for something that does not exist and can’t be proven. Back in August 2014 Alex Newman wrote in The New American, Embarrassing Predictions Haunt the Global-Warming Industry. It also criticizes organizations like the UN that recanted some of their farcical claims, sometimes even before they could be proven wrong. Global Warming is not scientific; it has become a political issue with many commenters who act as experts. In addition, articles that have been debunked continue to be echoed in other commentaries. Neuman points this out: the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has acted as the main scaremonger for the global warming lobby that led to the Kyoto Protocol. However, the IPCC is a political, not scientific, body. No compatible source was found for this video. For instance, there is the worry of our ecosystems being disrupted by rising temperatures or increasing CO2. Almost as an urban legend, abnormal ice melting claims about both the north and south pole regions continue. But the only thing that is abnormal is that anyone believes them. One had just experienced a hurricane and said that he would crush anyone’s head who was a non-believer in global warming. He was later fired, not because of his global warming beliefs, but because of his poor analytical skills. In addition, an alleged diminishing local animal population was presented as further proof. As one of the senior analysts of the office, I took no real part in the discussions. However, in their defense, they never professed to be experts — they were just more misguided liberals (is that redundant?) How can you argue with the so-called global warming experts that use the inanest ‘evidence’ and arguments to support their claims? For instance, it is amazing how many ‘experts’ use fictional movies about global warming to support their claims! There are plenty of movies with that type of scientific evidence! Seriously, decades ago severe pollution and rising sea levels was as big of a concern as global warming. Thus, they had to go back to their old theory of rising oceans, which of course, can’t be proven either. They touted that it could predict snow arrival, as well as depth. Some cynics believe accuracy was never the goal in any global warming forecasts anyway; the goal was always to gain more money, power, and influence.
Clinton, who has grown increasingly public and vocal in recent weeks, appears ready to drive the bus again. By T.A. Frank; VanityFair: With Donald Trump busy spreading havoc around the world—most recently tweeting about James Comey’s testimony, or feeding into the crisis over Qatar—it’s reasonable to ask who can be bothered to gripe about Hillary Clinton. Or maybe one doesn’t, but in a two-party system there’s only one alternative to the party of Trump, and the role of Clinton in that party is therefore important. Hillary has been making high-profile public appearances and started talking frankly about her distaste for Trump and her dismay over the people and things that cost her the election. She has even founded a PAC called Onward Together, a 501(c)(4) that will advance progressive values. Whether we like it or not, the Clintons are back in the game. It’s up to the rest of us to figure out if we approve. Just about everything we do lends itself to a generous or hostile interpretation. Our friends think we feed the poor because we have genuine compassion, and our enemies think we do so because we want to look good. I’ve been tough on Chelsea Clinton—hard not to be—but Hillary Clinton has a much higher accomplishment-to-self-regard ratio. To read rest of article visit VanityFair. The Clinton Blame Game: Hillary Needs to Accept Responsibility for Loss No compatible source was found for this video. Of course, President Trump is at the top of her list. You know whose name you’re not going to find? Save perhaps for President Trump, no one else is singularly so responsible for her loss than Hillary herself. Yet, she has so far proven unwilling to take any of the blame. As Hillary stated in a recent interview, I take responsibility for every decision I make—but that’s not why I lost. However, as the nominee and candidate for president, no one else should have to shoulder as much blame as Hillary. And I say this as someone who does believe that sexism and other unfair factors played a role. Still, it wasn’t sexism that inspired Hillary to ignore voters in Michigan and Wisconsin and to jet set out to California to meet with rich donors. And it wasn’t sexism that inspired a largely negative campaign that focused on why people should vote against Donald Trump, rather than why they should vote for Hillary Clinton. Turns out that her campaign didn’t inspire a lot of people to the polls. Sexism may have been a factor in Hillary’s inability to connect with voters, especially working and middle class voters. But there were many other factors as well. Hillary has a tendency of coming off as an elitist. She can’t pour a beer, she hasn’t driven a car in years, and she always seemed to struggle to relate to people directly. Her campaign, meanwhile, was mostly tone deaf. After winning the DNC nomination, she largely blew off Michigan and Wisconsin. The problem is that if you want midwestern voters, you have to meet with them and respect them. You can’t ignore them and skip off to sunny California to eat triple-digit meals and hob knob with celebrities and millionaires instead.
General Issam Zahreddine in Deir Ezzor BEIRUT, LEBANON (4:50 P.M.) – The battle for Al-Mayadeen proved to be a decisive victory for the Syrian Arab Army (SAA) and their allies, as they were able to successfully uproot the so-called Islamic State (ISIS) from this large city in the Deir Ezzor Governorate. For ISIS, their defeat at Al-Mayadeen could not come at a worse time, as their battlefield woes in Al-Raqqa and central Syria have handicapped their remaining forces inside the country. On Sunday, Syrian news channels posted several videos showing the aftermath of the Al-Mayadeen battle and the recently liberated areas surrounding the city. The footage showed scores of dead ISIS terrorists and a large number of armored vehicles that were destroyed by the Syrian Arab Army during their one week long offensive. With Al-Mayadeen liberated, the Syrian Army will now turn their attention to the provincial capital and Al-‘Umar Oil Fields in order to expel the Islamic Sate from more areas in Syria.
Dozens of protesters gathered Saturday at Lawyers Mall in Annapolis to talk about President Donald Trump. About 50 people of diverse background who turned out for the Making America Great Again, Already! We are here to support and endorse what he has been doing for the military and the economy, said Sajid Tarar, a Muslim immigrant from Pakistan and founder of Muslim Americans for Trump. The rally comes at a time of intense controversy for the president. An ABC Post poll from this month showed 66 percent of Americans said Trump has done more to divide the country than unite it. And the rally was held the same day as marches with speakers expected to be critical of the president were staged across the country in support of racial justice. Another is planned Sunday at Lawyers Mall. But Saturday, the crowd outside the State House had a different message. Tarar has been a vocal Trump supporter from early on; he prayed onstage at the Republican National Convention and spoke favor of the then-candidate. Trump’s statements about Muslims and Islam are not directed at the faith as a whole, Tarar said, nor at every Muslim American. It would be impossible, Tarar said, to cast blame on every person belonging to the world’s second-largest religion. I saw him as the person who can fight the terrorism, Tarar said. He said Trump’s travel ban, which originally blocked immigrants from Iran, Syria, Libya, Somalia, Yemen and Sudan, isn’t a ban at all but a pause, to ensure thorough vetting of the people from these countries. The original restriction on travel from these six countries has expired and been replaced with an order that bans varying degrees of immigration from Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela and Yemen. Like Tarar, he attended the president’s inauguration. Singh said when he first arrived in Dulles International Airport in Virginia, he saw a futuristic marvel in the sleek terminals and busses that whisked passengers to and fro. But the bus that dropped him off in 1986 is the bus that he is still taking today, adding that the more impressive airports are now the ones in his home country of India. Last year I went to India, and that airport I left is now looking futuristic, Singh said. When I came to Dulles Airport, the same 30-year-old bus with loose doors and torn carpet came to receive me. So, when Donald Trump says our infrastructure has gone down, he’s totally right. chant briefly broke out among the rallygoers. Garcia-Hidalgo spoke of a booming economy, a low unemployment rate and a strong stock market, and defended Trump’s response to the devastation to Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. Michael Cohen, who serves as Trump’s personal lawyer, also spoke at the rally via phone and thanked those gathered for their support. Congress has not yet approved funding for the border wall, but the Trump administration has announced companies that are building prototypes. Additionally, Congress has not passed any economic legislation, but the administration introduced a tax reform plan Wednesday. But Marcus Anthony, a Fairfax County, Virginia, resident, said he attended the rally to preserve the other side. We live in a highly liberal area, Marcus said. As it is today, a lot of our side is continuously oppressed … It’s our responsibility to retain our perspectives. All minorities are not against the president, Singh said. Minorities have the same agenda as any other Americans, he said.
PHOTO: AP "I cant believe that Im saying that a candidate for president of the United States has bragged about sexually assaulting women." And so First Lady Michelle Obama captured the sentiments of a majority of Americans during an emotional stump speech for Hillary Clinton on Thursday afternoon that lambasted Republican nominee Donald Trumps repeated demeaning and derogatory treatment of women. Speaking before a crowd in Manchester, New Hampshire, Mrs. Obama stated that the leaked Access Hollywood video of Trump bragging about groping, kissing, and trying to have sex with women has "shaken [her] to [her] core." " It would be dishonest and disingenuous to move on to the next thing like this was all just a bad dream," the first lady said. " We cant sweep this under the rug as another sad footnote in a disturbing election season. This was a powerful individual speaking freely and openly about sexually predatory behavior." Refusing to call Trump by name—only referring to him as Hillary Clintons "opponent"—Mrs. Obama denounced the Republican candidates defense of his past remarks as simple "locker room talk" while explaining how personal these comments felt to her—and for all women. For Trump, the 2005 Access Hollywood appearance was not an isolated incident. He has gone on record numerous times to comment on women in, typically, one of two ways: As objects of his own sexual gratification or as threats that should be wholly diminished for their intellect, ambition, or appearance. Though Trump has repeatedly claimed the "locker room talk" defense since the tape leaked last Friday, numerous women have since come forward to report their own sexual assaults at the hands of Donald Trump—meaning that this wasnt just talk, it was predatory action. Like millions of Americans, Mrs. Obama, felt shock and outrage over Trumps behavior, and could not believe that there are still people in this country who view women with such little regard, let alone the fact that one of them is trying to become the next president of the United States. " It doesnt matter what party you belong to—Democrat, Republican, Independent—no woman deserves to be treated this way." Asserting that Trump is in no way qualified for the executive branch or be a role model for children who look up to the president, the first lady then praised Hillary Clinton for her longstanding commitment to public service (even saying that she has more experience than both "Barack or Bill"), before declaring that the former secretary of state would be the only candidate who could unite the country and guide the American public with strength and compassion. Making a call to undecided voters, Mrs. Obama urged them not to cast a protest vote or sit the election out entirely, saying that doing so would only help clear a path for Trump to the White House. She referenced the 2012 election, in which President Obama won New Hampshire by 4,0 votes. Though that figure might have seemed like a definitive win for the incumbent president, it broke down to a total of just 66 votes per precinct—or, dozens of votes that could make or break a candidates victory. She additionally cited the power of women voters in this election, and the influence they can have in choosing the next president. A recent report from Nate Silvers FiveThirtyEight election forecast suggested that if only women voted, Hillary Clinton would win by an overwhelming majority (which, horrifyingly, prompted a #Repealthe19th social media campaign among Trump supporters). Mrs. Obama invited all women to take this power seriously and use it to elect a candidate who has not only been a pillar of support for women, but would teach Americas children that any kind of degrading, hateful rhetoric is wholly unacceptable. " We, as women, have all the power we need to determine the outcome of this election," Mrs. Obama said. " We have the knowledge, we have a voice, we have a vote. And on November 8, we as women, we as Americans, we as decent human beings, can declare that enough is enough and we do not tolerate this kind of behavior."
WASHINGTON — Former undercover CIA agent Valerie Plame Wilson is looking to crowdfund enough money to buy Twitter so President Donald Trump can’t use it. Wilson launched the fundraiser last week, tweeting: If @Twitter executives won’t shut down Trump’s violence and hate, then it’s up to us. # The GoFundMe page for the fundraiser says Trump’s tweets damage the country and put people in harm’s way. As of Wednesday morning, she had raised less than $6,0 of the billion-dollar goal. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders calls the fundraiser a ridiculous attempt to shut down the president’s First Amendment rights. Wilson’s identity as a CIA operative was leaked by an official in former President George W. Bush’s administration in 2003. If @Twitter executives won’t shut down Trump’s violence and hate, then it’s up to us. # BuyTwitter #BanTrump — Valerie Plame Wilson (@ValeriePlame) August 18, 2017
The FBI is advising people to hang up if they receive a call from a woman screaming for help. A decades-old virtual kidnapping scam is placing more U.S. residents at risk of becoming potential victims, the FBI warned on its website. The scheme takes many forms, but basically callers trick victims into paying ransoms to free family or friends who have been kidnapped. The virtual abductors coerce victims to pay a ransom before victims can find out that no one has been kidnapped. The FBI had been tracking virtual kidnapping calls primarily from prisons in Mexico between 2013 and 2015. The callers targeted individuals who spoke Spanish, the FBI said. Most of the victims were from the Los Angeles and Houston areas. Todays top news by email The local news you need to start your day Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms The FBI issued the warning because kidnappers have widened their pool of potential victims by no longer targeting only specific individuals and Spanish speakers. The callers also are cold-calling numbers in various cities. In a recent investigation, the FBI found that more than 80 people have fallen victim to the new tactics in California, Minnesota, Idaho and Texas. Those victims paid more than $87,0 in ransom. An FBI spokeswoman for the Kansas City offices said she was not aware of any instances that have occurred in Kansas or Missouri where the FBI was involved. The scam works this way: The potential victim answers a call and hears a woman screaming, Help me! The victim might blurt out a name, like Mary, asking her if she’s OK. At that point, the caller will tell the victim that Mary has been kidnapped and she will be harmed if ransom isn’t paid quickly. The scam is successful when victims don’t know the whereabouts of their loved ones. The scammers typically demand that the ransoms are wired to Mexico. The amount is typically less than $2,0 because of legal restrictions for wiring larger amounts across the border, the FBI said. However, two victims in Houston were coerced to pay larger ransoms by making money drops. A federal grand jury charged a 34-year-old Houston woman in July with 10 counts, including wire fraud and money laundering, for her involvement in the scam. The charges are the first federal indictment in a virtual kidnapping case, the FBI said. Robert A. Cronkleton: 816-234-4261, @cronkb How to avoid falling victim If you receive a call from someone demanding ransom for an alleged kidnap victim, the FBI suggests: Hang up the phone. Don’t call out your loved one’s name if you do respond to call. Request to speak with the alleged victim. Ask questions only the alleged victim would know. Listen to the voice of the alleged victim if they do speak. Try to contact the alleged victim on the phone, text or social media. If you believe a real kidnapping has taken place, call 911.
You might have missed it, because while it happened in plain sight, it also happened in increments. You had to put the pieces together to appreciate the magnitude of it. You see, America repudiated its president. This, of course, was in response to that pathetic performance in the wake of the tragedy in Charlottesville, Va., when he suggested moral equivalence between white supremacists and those who protest them. In response, America — a pretty broad swath of it, at least — has condemned him. The reference is not to the shellacking he took from pundits or the reprovals of GOP leaders Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan. But you did not expect the Chairman and CEO of Merck to quit the president’s American Manufacturing Council. And Ken Frazier’s departure, which he framed as a matter of personal conscience, was just the opening salvo. He was followed through the door by members of that panel and others. By week’s end, two presidential business advisory groups had ceased to exist and plans for a third had been scrapped. Members of the President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities also resigned en masse. Meantime, Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s club and de facto presidential getaway in Florida, saw a rash of charities canceling their fundraising events. The Washington Post listed the Salvation Army, the American Red Cross, Susan G. Komen and the American Cancer Society among those who have chosen to hold their galas elsewhere. Bob Corker, a respected Republican senator who has heretofore sought to engage with the president, raised sharp questions not just about Trump’s competence, but also his stability, and called for radical changes in the White House. Five military chiefs also spoke out against the bigotry in Charlottesville, in a striking reproach of their commander. Graduates of Liberty University called on fellow alumni to return their diplomas to protest LU president Jerry Falwell Jr.’s support for Trump. And it was announced that the president would not be attending the Kennedy Center Honors in December, nor host the traditional White House reception for the five honorees after three of them had spoken of boycotting the event. And really: How toxic are you when Lionel Richie doesn’t want to shake your hand? It seems that a great many Americans reached a moment of decision and reacted as you would have hoped. Trump and his apologists and enablers should take note, because this does not bode well for them. For all its powers of law making, war making, budget drafting, and diplomacy, the presidency also embodies the power of moral suasion. A president uses what Theodore Roosevelt called the bully pulpit — the honor and prestige of his office — to stand for what is right and remind us to do likewise. Problematically, that office is occupied now by a man with no moral compass, a man whose only true North is self. What was not predictable was this chorus of castigation from such a wide spectrum of American life. The stunning rebuke offers heartening evidence that we have not yet completely abandoned who and what we are supposed to be. Those who chose to separate themselves from Trump declared their values — and character.
After the violent protests in Charlottesville, Virginia, over a Confederate monument, internet companies are making it difficult for white supremacist groups to organize online. Neo-Nazi website the Daily Stormer was booted from web host GoDaddy after the rally. GoDaddy tweeted the site violated its terms of service. The Daily Stormer then tried to move to Google and then a Russian domain, but both hosts rejected the site. Twitter and LinkedIn also canceled Daily Stormer-related accounts, and YouTube has cracked down on accounts associated with alt-right figures. SEE MORE: Phoenixs Mayor Wants President Trump To Delay A Rally In The City White supremacists arent being allowed to express themselves through song, either. Spotify is purging white supremacist music from its archives. And Pandora said its making sure theres nothing like that on its service. This was a trend before the "Unite the Right" rally even started. Airbnb deleted accounts of users it suspected were trying to book rooms in Charlottesville before the event. White supremacists arent just being blocked from posting on the internet. Theyre also being blocked from profiting from it. Crowd-funding sites like Patreon and GoFundMe blocked the accounts of alt-right figures and groups, forcing some to use a knockoff called Hatreon.
The Veterans Recognition Foundation built Veterans Park in Longview, Texas to serve as a thank you for the work of veterans in all branches of the military and as a reminder of their sacrifice. Unfortunately, something happened earlier this week in the park that has deeply upset many veterans and visitors. The Longview News-Journal reports that the statue of the Unknown Solider has been destroyed. Air Force veteran David Applewhite posted a photo to Facebook saying, One of the statues guarding the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier monument has been pushed over by vandals at the Veterans Plaza in Longview! Unfortunately, there doesn’t seem to be any news on who could have ruined the statue, nor if this was definitely an act of vandalism. Some are speculating that it could have been the result of a structural failure in a weak part of the sculpture. Several Longview residents are expressing their anger on social media, calling for all kinds of punishments for the vandals. Others are just hoping to see the statue repaired as quickly as possible. The Veterans Plaza website has a  support page where they accept donations to rebuild what was lost.
Republicans knew what they were getting when they overwhelmingly voted for Bruce Rauner. He made no secret of his support for abortion. In 2014, his wife, Diana Rauner, went so far as to take out an ad assuring pro-choice Democrats of her husbands stance. Despite what youve been reading about the far rights consternation with Bruce Rauner over his ostensible support for abortion in Illinois, I think its been a pretty good month for the governor. The union-busting Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees case that he initiated has made it to the Supreme Court. It looks like he may be able to put together the band of rabid right-wingers and abortion-rights moderates who helped elect him in the first place. I know that sounds like the oddest of coalitions—but it just goes to show you what a clever politician can buy with his billions. In fact, I cant understand why theyre so outraged. They knew what they were getting when they overwhelmingly voted for Rauner back in 2014. Rauner made no secret of his support for abortion. In 2014, his wife, Diana Rauner, went so far as to take out an ad assuring pro-choice Democrats that when it came to abortion rights her husband would be no different than his opponent, former governor Pat Quinn. Backed by many pro-choice moderates in DuPage County, the North Shore, and the Gold Coast, Rauner edged out Quinn and promptly went to work bankrupting public education by vetoing the budget. Earlier this year, the governor panicked when it looked as though he might be losing support among downstate Republicans. Obviously, he went with the former, at least partly because, if push came to shove, they might actually vote for a Democrat. As for the rabid right, he probably figured hed give em a tax break and theyd follow him off a cliff. Over the summer he made a real show of inviting various pro-choice women to his office to explain to him how important it was to pass HB40. Key players in the pro-choice movement fell for it. When Rauner signed HB40, Planned Parenthood of Illinois sent an e-mail calling on members to "thank Governor Rauner." A more accurate response wouldve been "Thanks for nothing, Bruce!" Even if the strategy fails and he doesnt win reelection, Rauners in a perfect position to achieve his great dream of damaging, if not destroying, public unions in Illinois thanks to the Janus case. In particular, he doesnt think he should have to donate money to a union with which he disagrees politically. Its called a fair-share contribution because the money guarantees that workers share the cost of financing a union that represents them in bargaining and grievance hearings. Several unions and attorney general Lisa Madigan sued and Rauners executive order was overturned. Rauner also filed a suit in federal court seeking to stop automatic fair-share contributions on First Amendment grounds. On September 28, the Supreme Court agreed to hear Januss case. So unless another judge flips—cmon Justice Kennedy, you can do it!—it looks like SCOTUS will issue a bruising blow against unions, which will have to scramble to keep up their funding. Good luck getting the National Right to Work Foundation to help them with that. As for Rauners friends at Planned Parenthood—well, with a drop in membership, unions will be less able to help elect Democrats. Your good friend, Bruce, is throwing you under the bus once again. Only this time hes got a more roundabout way of doing it.
Image via Michael B. Images FBI Labels Black Identity Extremists As Threat To Police This is how it starts. Everyone needs to pay attention because one day we might look back at this moment as a pivotal moment when the federal government reinvigorated a campaign against Black protesters and activists. According to ForeignPolicy, the FBI’s counterterrorism unit is warning that black identity extremists are a major threat to law enforcement officers. They even have a cute acronym for these types of people, BIE. Peep the langage used here: The FBI assesses it is very likely Black Identity Extremist (BIE) perceptions of police brutality against African Americans spurred an increase in premeditated, retaliatory lethal violence against law enforcement and will very likely serve as justification for such violence, Perceptions. Perceptions of police brutality against African Americans…ain’t no perceptions, b!tc#! We KNOW the police whoop our azzes just for living. Our collective response to the police shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson is the catalyst for the Black boogie men who are taking aim at cops if you let them tell it: The FBI assesses it is very likely incidents of alleged police abuse against African Americans since then have continued to feed the resurgence in ideologically motivated, violent criminal activity within the BIE movement, Again, alleged. The feds are labeling Black folks who are angry at systemic racism as domestic terrorists. Something that the President didn’t do when addressing the tiki-torchers in Charlottesville. You know what America does when they perceive a group of people to be terrorists…at least when they’re Black or brown. Guess they don’t see neo-Nazis and alt-right azzholes in that same light.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested 97 people after raiding a Tennessee meat processing plant, in what civil rights activists say was the largest crackdown at a single place in almost a decade. ICE spokeswoman Tammy Spicer announced the raid in a statement on Friday and said that of the 97 people taken into custody from Southeastern Provision meat processing plant in eastern Tennessee, 11 people were arrested on criminal charges, 54 were placed in detention and 32 were released. She said they were all arrested on suspicion of being in the country illegally. The National Immigration Law Center said it believes this was the largest single-workplace raid since George W. Bush was president, the Washington Post reported. Federal immigration officials did not confirm if it was the largest. This was the latest crackdown on illegal immigrants by the Trump administration after he announced last year that ICE agents would be targeting employers that choose to hire immigrants knowing they are illegal. A total of 21 people were arrested after immigration agents raided 7-11 stores nationwide in January. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Image via SAUL /Getty Images Trump has told sources that he expects to appoint three more Supreme Court Justices before the end of his first term, Axios reports. Trump has already nominated conservative judge Neil Gorsuch​, who was confirmed and then sworn into office in April of 2017. Gorsuch replaced ​the late Justice Antonin Scalia. Trump believes that Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy, who​ is 81 years old, will soon be out. Kennedy is rumored to be considering retirement. You can read the exchange with Trump, obtained by Axios, below. " Ok," one source told Trump, "so thats two. Sotomayor," Trump said, referring to the relatively recently-appointed Obama justice, whose name is rarely, if ever, mentioned in speculation about the next justice to be replaced. " Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is 84 years old, while Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor is just 63 years old. Sotomayor, who was appointed by President Obama, is the first Latina to serve on the Supreme Court. She was diagnosed with diabetes as a child. Ironically, Trump is the oldest person to be elected president in U.S. history. The reality television star is 71 years old. One source is quoted as saying, "its all about the numbers for him," which is not surprising because we are talking about a man who constantly bragsabout numbers, whether it be rating numbers, the size of the crowd at his inauguration or crowds for his rallies in general.
In Arizona, there is a special election to replace Rep. Trent Franks, who resigned earlier this year. Making special appearances to help the Democrat in that race are the kids from Parkland, Florida. The left’s obsession with gun control is nothing new. The left embraced the creation of the Brady Center to Prevent Handgun Violence after its creation in the 1980s. Other left-wing attempts to repeal and block the Second Amendment rights of Americans go further back. As a policy idea, gun control has been a disaster. Britain essentially banned firearms after the 1996 Dunblane massacre. While Britain, for more than 20 years, has had the kind of gun control American liberals can only dream of, the results have not been good. In gun-free London, a number of people have been shot to death in the last three months. Only a year ago, the BBC reported that gun crime had risen by 42 percent. The left promises us that if we only ban guns, crime will go away. The politicians in Britain are now pushing knife control. It is a fundamental intrusion on one of the most basic liberties someone may have. Thomas Jefferson wrote in the draft of the Virginia Constitution, No free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms. One of the fundamental rights that any free man or woman has is the right to self-defense. The left ignores the fact that when guns are used in this nation, they are overwhelmingly used for self-defense. But it is this fundamental right of self-defense that the left challenges and would see destroyed in America. In the last 20 years in America, an alarming change has taken place in schools. Before this time, if two children became involved in a fight at school, the school would try to determine who started the fight and punish that child. Now, both children (or more) are punished. It does not matter if one child was trying to defend himself against a bully. It doesn’t matter if someone else started the fight, the mere act of self-defense becomes a punishable offense. The left has this obsession with people and the nation being defenseless. They want to strip away the rights of citizens to use weapons to defend themselves. They tell real Americans that it is necessary to strip away our rights to make us safe. In 1783, William Pitt spoke in the House of Commons and said, Necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. It is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves. Their goal is tyranny and their objective is to reduce every American to the status of a slave. • Judson Phillips is founder of the Tea Party Nation. © Copyright (c) 2018 News World Communications, Inc. —- This content is published through a licensing agreement with Acquire Media using its NewsEdge technology.
An unattended package near the north fence of the White House was cleared by the Secret Service and Metropolitan Police Tuesday afternoon. The White House was placed on an apparent lockdown Tuesday while President Trump was en route to Arizona for a rally in Phoenix, according to multiple reports. The Hill reported that Secret Service cleared the White House’s North Lawn and sent media members and construction workers in the area into the West Wing. The Secret Service confirmed via Twitter that it and the Washington, D.C. Police Department were responding to an unattended package near the north fence of the White House complex. Trump is reportedly heading to a campaign-style rally in Phoenix late Tuesday, an event which is also expected to draw major protests. The president will also reportedly visit a Border Patrol facility in Yuma, Arizona before Tuesday’s rally. Trump will examine Border Patrol equipment such as a Predator drone and an agency boat during his stop in Yuma. Immigration is a major issue for Trump’s supporters, and the president campaigned extensively on the topic during last year’s White House race. Trump has long vowed to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, arguing it will reduce illegal immigration and increase America’s border security. The president has also pledged to take a tougher stance on drug trafficking across America’s borders.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, FEMA said they would only give aid to victims if they had received (unspecified) vaccinations. In late August and early September 2017, false rumors began to spread on Facebook and Twitter that FEMA (the Federal Emergency Management Agency) was refusing to give aid to victims of Hurricane Harvey unless they had been vaccinated, and that the agency was forcing people to undergo vaccinations in order to receive aid. These rumors are entirely false, and we could not find any iteration of them which provided even a fabricated source or citation. Fema is saying that Texans will have to have a vaccine shot in order to get aid are you paying attention. Despite including absolutely no evidence whatsoever, the post was shared more than 5,0 times within a few days. A search of FEMA’s press releases, Facebook account and Twitter account shows that the agency has not said any such thing. Not only that, but a FEMA spokesperson definitively rejected the rumors in a statement sent to us: There is absolutely no requirement for Hurricane Survivors to be vaccinated in order to receive assistance from FEMA. They only need to register with FEMA for assistance. They can do this online at disasterassistance.gov or call 1-800-621-3362. This is just the latest in a series of false claims surrounding FEMA, and forms part of the long-standing  FEMA camps conspiracy theory, which holds that the federal government is planning to build concentration camps and impose martial law in the aftermath of a natural disaster.
In one of the strangest war of words we’ve seen here at PolitiFact, President Donald Trump and North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un traded insults recently, culminating in the use of the insult "dotard." Merriam-Webster noted that searches for the word spiked. Older PolitiFact staffers informed our younger counterparts that a dotard is someone who has entered his or her dotage, and that dotage is "a state or period of senile decay marked by decline of mental poise and alertness," according to Merriam-Webster. Kim Jong Un hurled the word at Trump in response to Trump’s recent speech at the United Nations, saying that Trump’s speech was "unprecedented rude nonsense one has never heard from any of his predecessors. I’d like to advise Trump to exercise prudence in selecting words and to be considerate of whom he speaks to when making a speech in front of the world." Later in the statement, Kim said, "Whatever Trump might have expected, he will face results beyond his expectation. I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged U.S. dotard with fire." Trump responded on Twitter: "Kim Jong Un of North Korea, who is obviously a madman who doesnt mind starving or killing his people, will be tested like never before!" Kim Jong Un of North Korea, who is obviously a madman who doesnt mind starving or killing his people, will be tested like never before!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 22, 2017 Where this war of words will lead is anyone’s guess. PolitiFact recently reviewed the issues surrounding North Korea as a preview to Trump’s speech at the United Nations, and we fact-checked Trump’s speech as well.
Jerry Drake Varnell was arrested August 12 in Oklahoma City after the FBI reports he planned to detonate a bomb outside an downtown bank. ( Courtesy of the Oklahoma DOC) Jerry Drake Varnell was arrested August 12 in Oklahoma City after the FBI reports he planned to detonate a bomb outside an downtown bank. ( Courtesy of the Oklahoma DOC) OKLAHOMA CITY (KOKH) — An Oklahoma man has been arrested after attempting to detonate a vehicle bomb parked outside a downtown Oklahoma City bank. Jerry Drake Varnell, of Sayre, was arrested August 12 in Oklahoma City. Court documents show that at 1 a.m. 23-year-old Varnell attempted to detonate what he believed was a van loaded with explosives parked in an alley next to BancFirst, 101 N. Broadway. The informant later told Varnell that they had access to anhydrous ammonia and ammonium nitrate. The two then began collecting items to develop an explosive device. In May 2017, Varnell allegedly told the informant he wanted to target BancFirst in downtown Oklahoma City instead because "I dont wanna kill a bunch of people". Court records show that Varnell admitted to "holding 3 percent ideology" during a meeting with the informant. " Varnell expressed a desire to start the new revolution. His targets included institutions with affiliation to the U.S. Government in Washington D.C." FBI Assistant Special Agent in Charge Raul Bujanda said. The DOJ reports that Varnell continued to advance his plans to build a device and had a statement ready to be posted to social media following the explosion. On August 11, Varnell met with an undercover FBI employee that was posing as the supplier of the anhydrous ammonia. The two then drove to a mini-storage unit in El Reno and began constructing the device. All of the items used to construct the bomb were inert and provided by the undercover employee. Varnell then allegedly drove the van with the device to an alley by BancFirst and left on foot. The undercover employee picked up Varnell and the two drove a short distance away. Court records show that Varnell used a "burner" cell phone to dial a number to detonate the bomb several times. The FBI reports that that monitored Varnell closely during the months-long plot. He has been charged with attempting to use explosives to destroy a building in interstate commerce. Varnell was arraigned in federal court Monday afternoon. The U.S. Attorneys Office plans to seek indictment from the grand jury within 30 days. If convicted, he faces up to 30 years in prison. Major Bill Weaver with the Oklahoma City Police Department says Varnells plan was derailed thanks to a concerned citized and a committed group of law enforcement. " This goes to show what happens when someone that sees something says something and then law enforcement works forward to interdict that threat," Weaver said. BancFirst has released the following statement on the incident: BancFirst has been working cooperatively with the FBI. At no time were employees, customers or the general public ever in any danger. We believe our BancFirst downtown Oklahoma City building was a random and convenient selection by the suspect. There is no further threat or reason for concern. We take comfort and our company embraces a deep appreciation and admiration for the men and women of the FBI for their diligent and dedicated work in protecting our nation.
LifeZette editor-in-chief says Democrats, establishment GOP ‘happiest’ when president struggles By Kathryn Blackhurst; LifeZette: LifeZette Editor-in-Chief Laura Ingraham said that Never-Trumper Republicans and resisting liberals are happiest when President Donald Trump’s approval numbers go down, even if their own numbers plummet as well. Ingraham, who was guest-hosting Tuesday on Fox News’ Tucker Carlson Tonight, blasted balking GOP members of Congress and Democrats for blocking and stalling the president’s legislative agenda throughout his first 200 days in office. Noting that Republican senators such as Jeff Flake (Arizona), John McCain (Arizona), and Thom Tillis (North Carolina) delight in making rounds on the news talk shows to criticize Trump, Ingraham pointed out their own plunging approval numbers as the American voters wait for them to fulfill their campaign promises. Do you know what a liberal’s idea of Armageddon is? No, it’s not a nuclear North Korea, but a successful Trump presidency. Do you know what the Never-Trump Republicans on Capitol Hill fear the most? No, it’s not ISIS and it’s not a 5,0-point [drop] in the Dow, but a successful Trump presidency, Ingraham said. Today is the 200th day of this administration, she added. And despite the hyperventilation and alarmism we’re hearing from the national press corps — they’re prematurely declaring the Trump administration a failure, of course — but in fact, it’s the resistance to Trump that is playing a risky gambit. No compatible source was found for this video. In this resistance, Ingraham included Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), and supposed right senators such as Flake, McCain and Tillis. And what unites all of them is their sad and rather pathetic fear and loathing of President Trump, she said. So they want you so saturated in this endless and mindless Russia story deal, and other irrelevant West Wing staff intrigues that’s mostly fueled by leaks, that you even begin to believe their negative spin. And let’s face it — these people are happiest when his numbers go down, when his legislation and his confirmations stall, even if their own approval numbers go down, too. Pointing to recent Quinnipiac University poll measuring congressional approval ratings, Ingraham noted these politicians have plummeted even as Trump’s numbers have dwindled into the 30s. And Trump’s approval rating may only be about 37 percent according to one poll, but check this out. Tom Tillis’ approval rating, North Carolina — 29 percent. Chuck Schumer’s is 26 percent, and [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell’s is a very impressive 17 percent, Ingraham said, noting that McConnell has failed repeatedly to rally 50 of 52 GOP senators in support of various measures to repeal and replace Obamacare. Now despite two years of non-stop bile and vitriol from Washington’s bipartisan elite class, Trump is actually beating all of them, she added. Now while of course it’s true that key legislative successes are lacking, whether on health care, tax reform, infrastructure — but it’s equally true as well that President Trump has done a lot even without Congress to make our lives better. Ingraham said that Trump does need to work on boosting his approval numbers, but she argued the president has done a heck of a lot in just 200 days. Pointing to the successful confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, Trump’s slashing of Obama-era red-tape and regulations, the thriving stock market, consumer confidence and more, Ingraham said that Trump’s presidency hasn’t been the failure that the media, the Left and the Never-Trumpers are making it out to be. His approval numbers — yeah, they need boosting, that’s for sure. But considering the 24/7 media onslaught against him, the distraction of the Russia probe, and the resistance from Congress — both sides in Congress — he’s done a heck of a lot in just 200 days, she said. And if he can keep focused and he can keep his team motivated, keep them together, and put pressure on the Hill to deliver on some of these big issues, he’ll improve his numbers and he’ll grow the populist movement.
Donald Trump was speaking at an NRA rally (Niall ) Donald Trump has defended the use of guns in America by comparing a London hospital to a war zone because of knife crime. Speaking at a pro-gun rally, the US president claimed that knife crime in London is so bad that one unnamed hospital in the capital is like a war zone for horrible stabbing wounds with blood all over the floors. He told the National Rifle Convention (NRA) in Dallas: I recently read a story that in London, which has unbelievably tough gun laws, a once very prestigious hospital right in the middle is like a war zone for horrible stabbing wounds. All of us here today are united by the same timeless values. We believe that our liberty is a gift from our creator, and that no Government can ever take it away. We believe in the rule of law - and we support the men and women of law enforcement. 1Y8oju— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 4, 2018 Yes that’s right, they don’t have guns they have knives. And instead there’s blood all over the floors of this hospital. They say it’s as bad as a military war zone hospital. We’re here today because we recognise a simple fact. The one thing that has always stood between the American people and the elimination of our Second Amendment rights has been Conservatives and congress willing to fight for those rights, and we’re fighting. At least 38 people in London have lost their lives to knife crime so far this year, the Met confirmed. Thanks to your activism and dedication you have an administration fighting to protect your Second Amendment @realDonaldTrump #MAGA #NRA pic.twitter. — NRA (@NRA) May 4, 2018 Mr Trump also argued that the Paris terror attack could have been prevented if more people were armed. The terrorists would have fled or been shot and it would have been a whole different story, he said. The 2015 attack left 130 dead after terrorists carried out a series of suicide bombs and mass shootings in the French capital.
Gutterpube Who Says F All Them Crackas Who Got Shot In Vegas, Is A Deadbeat Dad Coke Dealer Who Claims He Donated Drug Proceeds To PR Relief Want to advertise with Turtleboy? Email us at [email protected] for more information. Screen Shot 2015-12-01 at 10.29.56 AM Obviously the big story of the day is the massacre that occurred in Las Vegas last night at a Country Music concert, where at least 50 people were killed by a man from a 32nd floor hotel room at Mandalay Bay casino. Naturally this has already been politicized, with people arguing about immigration, gun control, and all things Trump. Oh and Hillary said this: The crowd fled at the sound of gunshots. Imagine the deaths if the shooter had a silencer, which the NRA wants to make easier to get. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 2, 2017 But yea, Trump is the only one who tweets dumb things. Good thing the democrats gave us a viable alternative in 2016 that we could really get behind. Those machine gun silencers are a real killer. Anyway, we have no interest in going all political about this. What we do is always find the worst people on the Internet and see what they have to say about this tragedy. Today’s winner is an illiterate drug dealer from Hartford named Allen Lozada, AKA AP El Titere. Here’s his initial reaction to the mass shooting: He might not have finished his GED, but he basically sees the world the same exact way 99% of employees at CNN do – everything is Trump’s fault. And those crackas who were peacefully watching a concert in Vegas? The whole thing was a big setup to draw attention away from hurricane relief in Puerto Rico. He was just getting started though: But he’s one of the good guys because he admits to donating his profits from drug transactions towards disaster relief: Oh yea, he’s a winner. And you’ll never guess who his favorite bouncing ball team is…. There’s gonna be a lot of talk in the days and weeks ahead about banning whatever guns were used in Las Vegas. But I think we can all agree that what REALLY needs to be banned are flat brimmed Chicago Bulls hats and anyone who is inclined to wear them. There are plenty of responsible, law abiding gun owners out there. But there has never, ever, ever been a decent, law-abiding person who has chosen to wear that thing on their head. If you know anyone that owns that hat, disassociate with them immediately. He really misses his boy, who I’m sure lived a noble and worthwhile life, because now that Sito isn’t around, he doesn’t have anyone to come scoop him up to he can turn up on these fuck n words: You can also find Allen Lozada on Deadbeatdirectory.com, with his own profile: Oh good, he’s a cokehead deadbeat dad, who allegedly threatened to choke his baby until she turned blue. Anyway, it is gonna be interesting to see what the killer’s motivation was in Las Vegas. A place that more than likely was filled with people who voted for Donald Trump. Not saying that’s his motive, but he could’ve shot up any large group of people and he chose this one. Either way, Allen Lozada is a useless sack of gutterpubes, and the 50+ who died in Las Vegas are much, much bigger losses to society than he could ever be. We urge you to support the following local businesses. They provide terrific services for the community! Screen Shot 2017-02-27 at 10.14.48 AM Screen Shot 2017-03-31 at 2.17.19 PM Screen Shot 2017-03-25 at 8.48.23 PM
A substitute teacher in a Texas elementary school called police on a six-year-old Muslim boy with Down syndrome, fearing he was a terrorist. Mohammad Suleimans father, Maher, felt discrimination was in play after the teacher claimed the boy kept repeating Allah and boom in his Pearland, Texas, classroom. Mohammad was born with Down Syndrome chromosome 21, the father said to F ox 26 about his sons intellectual difficulties and his inability to speak, something the school claimed he could do. Teacher calls police on special needs student CONNECTING. A substitute teacher at CJ Harris Elementary school in Pearland, Texas, allegedly called the police on Mohammad Suleiman, six, (pictured) and claimed he was a terrorist A substitute teacher at CJ Harris Elementary school in Pearland, Texas, allegedly called the police on Mohammad Suleiman, six, (pictured) and claimed he was a terrorist Maher cant help but be disgusted by the allegations against his son being a terrorist that the substitute teacher at CJ Harris Elementary School made. She claimed he was a terrorist, added Maher. Actually, its not implied discrimination, its actual discrimination. The phone call placed by the teacher prompted both the police and Child Protective Services to launch investigations into the Suleiman family. The teacher said that Mohammad kept saying Allah and boom but his father, Maher, asserts that the boy has down syndrome and does not speak The teacher said that Mohammad kept saying Allah and boom but his father, Maher, asserts that the boy has down syndrome and does not speak This is so stupid, its discrimination. Actually, its not implied discrimination, its actual discrimination, the father (pictured) said This is so stupid, its discrimination. Actually, its not implied discrimination, its actual discrimination, the father (pictured) said The last three to four weeks have been the hardest of my life, said Maher. My wife and kids were crying a few days ago and I told them everything is fine. The Pearland Police Department did tell FOX26 that an investigation took place but found that there was no need for police involvement. Child Protective Services is still conducting their investigation. Due to privacy laws, the Pearland Independent School District has not released any information pertinent to either the student or the personnel, according to a spokesperson. The phone call placed by the teacher prompted both the police and Child Protective Services to launch investigations into the Suleiman family The phone call placed by the teacher prompted both the police and Child Protective Services to launch investigations into the Suleiman family
Huma Abedin, an aide to Hillary Clinton, at a Women for Hillary event at West Los Angeles College on June 3, 2016, in Culver City, Calif. An article by the Daily Caller says Abedin forwarded some government passwords to her private Yahoo email account in 2009, when Clinton was secretary of state. Yahoo was hacked in 2013, which affected all 3 billion of its accounts. [ Irfan Khan | Los Angeles Times via TNS] WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump made his first "Crooked Hillary" Twitter post less than 48 hours into the new year Tuesday, accusing a former Clinton aide of "disregarding basic security protocols," and calling his own Justice Department a "deep state." " Crooked Hillary Clinton’s top aid, Huma Abedin, has been accused of disregarding basic security protocols," he wrote. " She put Classified Passwords into the hands of foreign agents. Deep State Justice Dept must finally act? Also on Comey &amp; others" Attacking his former Democratic opponent from the 2016 presidential election and taking aim at his own Justice Department struck familiar tones for the new year. Almost 14 months after the 2016 presidential election, Trump has kept up a regular drumbeat of attacks on Clinton. Last year, Trump also criticized the Justice Department and Attorney General Jeff Sessions for not pursing investigations of his political opponents. Tuesday morning’s Twitter post followed an article in the Daily Caller, a conservative publication that Trump closely monitors. The article said Abedin forwarded some government passwords to her private Yahoo email account in 2009, when Clinton was secretary of state. Yahoo was hacked in 2013, which affected all 3 billion of its accounts. After the breach, the data was offered for sale by a hacking collective based in Eastern Europe. Trump also implored his administration to investigate Abedin. The term "deep state" typically refers to a shadow government of agency officials who secretly plot to influence policy; they are usually associated with countries that have authoritarian elements that undercut democratically elected leaders. On Friday, the State Department released about 3,0 of Abedin’s work-related emails. The emails were found on the laptop of Abedin’s now estranged husband, Anthony Weiner, and were released as part of a public records request. The emails found on Weiner’s computer are a sore spot for Clinton. James Comey, the former FBI director, had notified Congress shortly before the 2016 election about the existence of newly discovered emails that could be relevant to the closed investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state. Clinton, in a book released last year, said Comey’s October 2016 disclosure hurt her campaign’s momentum and helped Trump win the election. In his Twitter post, Trump also referred to the case of a Navy sailor who was jailed for taking pictures inside a military submarine. According to a report in Fox News, the sailor had hoped to receive a pardon from the president, but has not.
Ever since last week’s High Court judgment threw a spanner in the works of the Government’s plan to use the Royal Prerogative to trigger Article 50 there have been all sorts of rumours and suggestions as to how the Government is going to deliver Brexit. Or there’s the idea of a simple one-line Bill to trigger Article 50 itself. And those are just the more obvious ideas. There seem to be as many different theories and suggestions as there are EU members. The moment we trigger Article 50 the clock starts ticking and we know we will leave the EU 24 months later, deal or no deal. Or, to put it another way, if Mrs May had done what her predecessor had suggested should happen. Because for all his faults David Cameron got one thing bang on. Back in February, when he was setting out to MPs the details of the pathetic deal he had negotiated with the EU, Mr Cameron made clear what he thought would and should happen if we voted for Brexit: If the British people vote to leave there is only one way to bring that about, namely to trigger Article 50 of the treaties and begin the process of exit and the British people would rightly expect that to start straightaway. Even if she sticks to that timetable that will have been a nine-month wait. By no stretch of the imagination can that be described as triggering Article 50 straightaway. Indeed he might even have done so himself. Imagine how different things would now be. Instead of politics being consumed with questions of procedure and timing – almost all of which are fig leaves pushed by Remainers who don’t want us to leave – and instead of the Remainers being handed ever more time to plot how they can frustrate the will of the British people, the path would have been set and the referendum result honoured. Unless there is a unanimous decision by the rest of the EU to change that timetable nothing can alter that. Mrs May repeated after the High Court ruling that she still plans to trigger Article 50 by the end of March. That doesn’t necessarily mean waiting until March. It means making sure it’s done by March, which could mean acting now. And there are compelling reasons why she should put a stop to the uncertainty and trigger Article 50 now. They have been doing that since the vote and will continue doing so for as long as they can. Their hope is that the longer they delay Article 50 being triggered, the more they can make a case that the referendum result is no longer valid. Make no mistake about this: they will do whatever they can to stop Article 50 coming into force. But their goal isn’t scrutiny: it’s destruction. They want to destroy the referendum result. And handing them any victory, especially from the Supreme Court, is unnecessary and unwise. We look at which European countries want to hold their own EU referendum. Who will be next to leave the EU On Monday the Brexit Secretary confirmed in the Commons that the Government could introduce a one-line Bill triggering Article 50 now, bypassing any Supreme Court decision. The Remainers would then be put on the spot and their plots exposed. They would doubtless seek to amend the Bill and use every parliamentary device at their disposal. But their motives would be obvious and the wiser among them would surely realise the huge risk they were running with democracy itself. And even the Remainers, surely, are not that wilful.
Theres been a lot of talk this week about President Trumps mental state. Psychiatrists have weighed in calling him a "very sick man." Former associates report that people close to him are "deeply concerned about his mental health. Trumps Twitter is a window into his mind, and right now it isnt offering an attractive view. Hes madly tweeted lies about his tax plan, applauded himself for single-handedly causing the stock market to rise, insulted the media, slandered old friends and condemned some of the famous men who have been fired for sexual harassment. Apparently he is more assured of his omnipotence than ever, since he was rewarded with the presidency while all those other guys have been brought low. Hes put on quite a show and all of it has further degraded the presidency and embarrassed the nation before the world. But there was one series of tweets that stood out and its so bad that it may have actually caused a diplomatic break with our closest ally. On Thursday morning, for some inexplicable reason, the president of the United States retweeted three videos claiming to be Muslim extremists perpetrating violence. The Dutch embassy clarified that the third video actually of two native-born dutch boys fighting, and did not involve Muslim immigrants at all. You may recall that prior to the Brexit vote last year a Labour Party member of Parliament named Jo Cox was assassinated by a man who shouted the words "Britain First" before he killed her. According to the Daily Beast: The group had previously struggled to garner mainstream-media coverage of their video stunts, which include mosque invasions and Christian patrols during which uniformed thugs carrying white crosses attempt to intimidate minority citizens. On Wednesday, Trump catapulted Fransen and the group’s leader Paul Golding, who is also a convicted criminal, into the global conversation. Trump sent those videos out to his millions of followers; hundreds of millions more may have seen them through other social media and mainstream news by now. Needless to say, Fransen was delighted and thanked Trumpfor "sharing the videos with his "44 MILLION FOLLOWERS! Prime Minister Theresa Mays office rebuked the president in a statement which said that Britain First "divides communities in their use of hateful narratives which pedal lies and stoke tensions. This causes anxieties to law-abiding people. It is wrong for the President to have done this." Trump himself was not contrite, of course. Labor M.P. Stephen Doughty declared that by sharing those tweets, Trump had shown himself to be "either a racist, incompetent or unthinking — or all three. I love America, it is a country and people of extraordinary generosity, courage, kindness and humanity — but this president represents none of those things. None of that is going to happen, of course. We are all well aware of Trumps bond with the old-fashioned American far right. Trump thinks that one can be a "very fine person" and still carry a torch and march with Nazis shouting "Jews will not replace us" in American cities. He has been retweeting white supremacists and neofascists for a long time. May did not rescind the invitation to the state visit. But the British dont seem to be in any hurry to set a date either. Plans for a "working visit" from Trump in January have been dropped, which seems wise. Our president seems to have done something that nobody else has been able to do in Britain lately: He brought left and right together -- in mutual loathing for him. Over the Thanksgiving holiday Trump made a weird, cryptic comment to Coast Guard troops, saying, "You never know about an ally, an ally can turn, youre going to find that out."
Justin Kaneps for The New York Times Microsoft busted Kremlin-linked hackers who broadened their targets in the United States. And Facebook, YouTube and others found new influence campaigns originating from Russia and Iran.
Bernice Burgos, the alleged ‘side chick’ in T.I. and Tiny’s marriage, hit The Breakfast Club this morning to discuss all the drama. As you know, Tiny discussed Burgos during a recent appearance on The Wendy Show, stating that Bernice stepped out of line and clearly didn’t know her place (click HERE if you missed that). Well now, Burgos is playing her position and in her latest interview, claims she and Tip were never a ‘thing’ and that their interactions was only for business. Video below… In the video clip above, Bernice apologizes about the entire social media fiasco between her and Tiny stating I’m very disappointed in what I did. She continues… Social media sometimes will put you in a place that you have to fight with people you don’t even know. On her ‘relationship’ with T.I. and being called a ‘homewrecker’, Burgos states, It was only for business… I got introduced for a movie.
Actor Terry Crews has taken to social media to share his experience with sexual assault in Hollywood. The 49-year-old Brooklyn Nine-Nine star told his story as more allegations about Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein were made public. Crews alleges that another Hollywood honcho touched him inappropriately in 2016. In a Twitter thread tonight, he wrote: "This whole thing with Harvey Weinstein is giving me PTSD. Because this kind of thing happened to ME. My wife [and] I were at a Hollywood function last year [and] a high level Hollywood executive came over 2 me and groped my privates. " My wife saw everything [and] we looked at him like he was crazy. I was going to kick his ass right then - but I thought twice about how the whole thing would appear. Black man stomps out Hollywood Honcho would be the headline the next day. " Only I probably wouldnt have been able to read it because I WOULD HAVE BEEN IN JAIL. Crews added that he told everyone he knew and worked with about what happened to him. And that the executive called him the next day to apologise, but never explained his reason for the assault. He said he never took it further, as we would be "ostracized, [which is] par for the course when the predator has power and influence. Credit: PA Images "Hollywood is not the only business where this happens, and to the casualties of this behavior- you are not alone," Crews added. " Hopefully, me coming forward with my story will deter a predator and encourage someone who feels hopeless." It comes after a number of high-profile women in Hollywood went public with claims of inappropriate behavior by film producer Weinstein, including Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie, Mira Sorvino, Asia Argento, and Rosanna Arquette. As we have previously noted at LADbible, figures released previously by the Ministry of Justice, showed that more than one in 10 victims of rape or attempted rape in the UK are male. A report published in 2015, titled Silent Suffering: Supporting The Male Survivors Of Sexual Assault, revealed that as few as 3.9% of male victims of rape and sexual assault report the crime to police.
Clinton now baselessly blames election-integrity laws for loss, media parrots By Kathryn Blackhurst, LifeZette: American Spectator Senior Editor John Fund blasted the media for refusing to cover former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s ravings claiming that voter suppression contributed to her Election Day loss, during an interview Wednesday on The Laura Ingraham Show. Fund, a national-affairs columnist for National Review Online, said both Democrats and the mainstream media ridiculed President Donald Trump for claiming that 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally while giving Clinton a complete pass for her claims. Pointing to the Public Interest Legal Foundation’s Monday report proving that more than 5,556 illegal voters were enrolled across 138 of Virginia’s counties and cities, Fund claimed that voter fraud is far more substantiated than Clinton’s claims. All they have are Hillary Clinton’s ravings. There’s no evidence that voter ID laws prevent people from voting. What really defeated Hillary Clinton was that in every single swing state, including states that don’t have voter ID, African-American turnout went down because African-American voters didn’t particularly like Hillary Clinton, Fund said. What we have is the Democrats actively trying to hide the ball on any attempt to find out if there is voter fraud, Fund continued. All they have are Hillary Clinton’s ravings. No compatible source was found for this video. Fund referred to Clinton’s recent interview with New York magazine in which she insisted, I would have won had I not been subjected to the unprecedented attacks by Comey and the Russians, aided and abetted by the suppression of the vote, particularly in Wisconsin. . . . Whoever comes next, this is not going to end. Republicans learned that if you suppress votes you win. Declaring this unsubstantiated claim to be utter nonsense, Fund noted that even liberal organizations such as the fact-checking site Snopes, Vox, and Slate have all called Hillary’s assertion that she lost because of voter suppression just a fantasy. But by the way, how much media coverage did you get? Instead, Trump’s claims of 3 million to 5 million people illegal voters have been getting all the attention. Having said that, the outrage against Trump was perfectly appropriate. But where’s the outrage at Hillary Clinton coming up with her fantasy about voter suppression with just as little evidence? I don’t know if anyone in the media … has talked about it or heard about it. Pointing once again to Virginia and its resident consigliere of the Clinton White House, Gov. Terry McAuliffe, Fund noted that he has desperately tried to prevent groups like the Public Interest Legal Foundation to go into voter registration rolls and try to find out who has been removed from the rolls in Virginia because they were illegally registered to vote when they obtained a driver’s license. That would be the evidence that there were non-citizens voting in our elections, Fund said. Well, McAuliffe sent out a directive to every local election official: Don’t cooperate with these questions. And it turns out they now have the answers from 138 communities in Virginia. Not the whole state, just part of it, [that] 5,500 non-citizens have been removed from the voter registration rolls in the last 5 years. The real issue, Fund insisted, is former President Barack Obama’s reluctance to investigate or illegal voting or allow others to investigate whether the country’s democratic election process had been compromised. For eight years, state after state asked the Obama administration’s Department of Homeland Security, ‘You have a list of every legal alien in the country, people with green cards, student visas. All we’ll do with it is match it with out voter-registration rolls and see if some non-citizens are registering and possibly voting, Fund said. For eight years the Obama administration refused to turn over those lists, claiming ‘privacy’ considerations, which were bogus, Fund added. The reason why he claimed there is no voter fraud is he’s actively trying to hide it. The Trump administration has since set up, by executive order, a commission to investigate voter fraud. This article was used with permission from LifeZette.
Occasionally, the news suggests glimmers of Hope: CO-OPTATION SAVES THE NATION- {rhyme} Our nation’s Trump-era history get reversed in this yuugely-odd mystery: - - The Donald the Dems have co-opted! The Opposition has clout to drag America out of the stupid Repug-dug ditch.
The mainstream media is floating rumors that Trump White House Chief of Staff John Kelly was removed from Air Force One this week and may be resigning. Kelly has been assigned Trump duties the past few months. According to conversations with Steve Bannon John Kelly is not allowing President Trump to receive his news from conservative news outlets. Pajamas Media reported: Bloomberg White House correspondent Jennifer Jacobs reports on Twitter that Trump’s chief of staff, General John Kelly, was originally going to be on the Air Force One flight to Las Vegas but was pulled off flight at the last moment. Gen. Kelly was originally going to be on AF1 to Vegas with Trump today but was pulled off flight, Im told. Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) October 4, 2017 Although the White House initially refused to answer her questions about this rather akward move, Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders eventually said that there’s nothing to read into here, explaining: He is basically always on the manifest. Sometimes he travels, and sometimes he doesn’t. An important caveat, of course, but Huckabee’s explanation did not prevent Scott Dworkin from tweeting that not one, not two, but three people have told him that this may very well be General Kelly’s last week as Trump’s chief of staff. I’ve heard from three people from different circles on the Hill that this may be John Kelly’s last week as Trump’s Chief of Staff. # AMJoy 9AGHeGR9y — Scott Dworkin (@funder) October 4, 2017 Sponsored
President Donald Trump speaks to reporters before leaving the White House in Washington, Friday, Dec. 15, 2017, for a trip to Quantico, Va., to attend the FBI National Academy graduation ceremony. ( AP Balce Ceneta) QUANTICO, Va. — President Donald Trump laced into FBI leadership Friday, while proclaiming his loyalty and support for law enforcement in an address at the agencys training academy. " Its a shame whats happened" with the FBI, the president said as he left the White House for a speech at the FBI training academy in Quantico, Virginia. He called the agencys handling of Hillary Clintons email investigation "really disgraceful" and told reporters "were going to rebuild the FBI." Shortly afterward, Trump lavished praise on graduates of a weeks-long FBI National Academy program and their families, touting their accomplishments and pledging his unwavering support. Trump told law enforcement leaders he is "more loyal than anyone else could be" to police. " Anti-police sentiment is wrong and its dangerous," he added. " Anyone who kills a police officer should get the death penalty." Trump used the speech to promote his administrations tough-on-crime policies, delivering a stern warning to members of the international gang MS-13 that his administration will root them out and arrest them. He also celebrated his decision to make it easier for local police forces to purchase surplus military equipment, and questioned rising violence in Chicago. " What the hell is happening there," he asked. Hours before, White House Deputy press secretary Hogan Gidley told Fox News Channel that edits to former FBI Director James Comeys statement on Clintons private email server and anti-Trump texts from a top agent are "deeply troubling." " There is extreme bias against this president with high-up members of the team there at the FBI who were investigating Hillary Clinton at the time," Gidley charged, as special counsel Robert Mueller pushes on with a probe of possible Trump campaign ties to Russia. Gidley says Trump maintains confidence in the FBIs rank-and-file. Edits to the Comey draft appeared to soften the gravity of the bureaus finding in its 2016 investigation of Hillary Clintons use of a private email server while secretary of state. " It is very sad when you look at those documents, how theyve done that is really, really disgraceful, and you have a lot of really angry people who are seeing it," Trump said of the document. Gidley said the disclosure of politically charged text messages sent by one of the agents on the Clinton case, Peter Strzok, were "eye-opening." Strzok, who was in the room as Clinton was interviewed, was later assigned to special counsel Robert Muellers team to investigate potential coordination between Russia and the Trump campaign. He was re-assigned after the messages were uncovered this summer. About 200 leaders in law enforcement from around the country attended the weeks-long FBI National Academy program aimed at raising law enforcement standards and cooperation. Coursework included intelligence theory, terrorism and terrorist mindsets, law, behavioral science, law enforcement communication, and forensic science.
Iran and Russia plan to destroy Western Europe, the US, and Canada by means of a new wave of millions of Syrian Sunnis fleeing to the West to escape the Shiite takeover of Syria. In the more fertile and densely populated west of Syria, there are Iraqi, Afghan, and Iranian Shiite militias augmenting Lebanese Hezbollah fighters who were given carte blanche to do whatever Hassan Nasrallah decides to do there. Assad’s strength continues to increase as ISIS and the other rebel forces lose ground. Today, although Erdogan is an unwilling ally of Russia, Alawite Assad still sees him, justifiably, as an Islamist enemy. That is certainly a problem, but the main issue facing a united Syria is going to be the drastic demographic changes the country is going to face. First of all, about half of Syria’s citizens – close to 10 million – are refugees, half located in Syria and the other half in Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon, other Arab countries, Europe, North and South America, Australia and even Israel. Syrian refugees who reached points outside the Arab world will in all probability stay put, benefitting from the secure and orderly lives they can now lead. On the other hand, the 3.5 million now in Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey are awaiting the end of hostilities in order to return to their homes. Those expectations may be dashed, however, because Syrian reality is totally changed, and large parts of its cities are in ruins after six and a half years of a cruel and bloody war. Refugees will not agree to switch their tents in Jordan for ruined buildings lacking basic infrastructure in a desolate and destroyed Syria. The issue could not be more clear because it is no secret that the pre-civil war Sunni majority considered the Alawite ruler’s heretic idol worshippers who had no right to live in Syria, much less rule over it. The Alawites know well that the Sunnis rebelled against them twice: The first time was from 1976 to 1982, a rebellion that took the lives of 50,0 citizens. The second time, slowly drawing to an end, has cost the lives of half a million men, women, children and aged citizens of Syria. The Alawites intend to prevent a third rebellion and the best way to do that is to change the majority of the population to Shiites instead of Sunnis. They will not allow the Sunni refugees to return to their homes, leaving them eternal refugees whose lands have been taken over by the enemy. Iran, meanwhile, will populate Syria with Shiites from Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan. The Shiite majority in Syria will play along with Lebanon’s Hezbollah, their natural allies, and it is possible that some form of federation might be created between the two in order to push the Lebanese Christians out of the picture, persuading them to flee to other countries, leaving Lebanon to its rightful Shiite masters. The new demographic situation in Syria will convince the Sunni refugees that they have no place to which to return. They will try their best to be allowed to leave Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey for any country, preferably North America and Europe, willing to allow them entry. They are filled with fury and hatred for the Western countries who were part of the coalition that fought ISIS or stood by without aiding the rebels. Some of them will continue their Jihad on European and North American soil. Expect shootings, explosives and ramming attacks against citizens of these countries. It is only a matter of time until young Muslims, especially those who were taught that everyone is equal in Western schools, enlist in terrorist organizations. Countries which allow in refugees will suffer a higher crime rate as a result, including violence in public places, sexual attacks, and harassment, housebreaking, car theft, substance abuse, unreported work to avoid paying taxes and illegal construction. This will all occur at the same time these countries expend a larger part of their budgets on social services for the refugees, from child allowances to unemployment, health and old age benefits. This will, in turn, lead to more social tensions in the West. Many Europeans, aware of their elected leaders’ betrayal, will despair and leave those socially and economically deteriorating countries. This will increase the rate at which Europe turns into an Islamic region. And that is how the agreements Iran and Russia will soon coerce Syria into accepting are going to start a chain reaction increasing the number of refugees and pulling Europe down to a point of no return, without the world understanding what is going on. The Atlantic Ocean is not wide enough to protect North America from this debacle crossing the sea.
President Trump responded to the Senate Republicans inability to pass a skinny version of Obamacares repeal the only way he knows how: Twitter. Senate Republicans werent able to muster enough votes to pass their skinny repeal of Obamacare. Senators voted 49-51 shortly before 2:00 a.m. Friday morning. Sen. John McCain (R-Arizona) cast a surprise "no" vote. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Susan Collins (Maine). The bill, titled the Health Care Freedom Act, would have repealed the individual insurance mandate. It would also have repealed the employer mandate for eight years. GOP leaders and Vice President Mike Pence huddled with McCain, Murkowski and Collins before the vote, which was stalled for nearly an hour. A few minutes before the vote, McCain crossed the chamber to huddle with Democrats. McCains "no" vote came as a shock to many. The vote is a devastating blow for Republicans who have fought for months to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and will likely have to start the process all over again. " This is clearly a disappointing moment," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said shortly after the final vote tally was called. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer admitted that the current health care law is not perfect and called for Republicans and Democrats to work together to fix the problems with Obamacare. Other memorable moments from the health care debate: Now the Senate will move on to the defense budget.
Former President Obama has chosen not to host hard-copy versions of his manuscripts and letters in his presidential library. Is the former Commander-in-Chief hiding something? The move has historians scratching their heads. Fox News report: The Obama Foundation is taking an unconventional approach to the presidential center and library being planned in Chicago. It’s opting to host a digital archive of President Barack Obama’s records, but not keep his hard-copy manuscripts and letters and other documents onsite. That means no thumbing through the ex-president’s correspondence on the health care fight or first drafts of his State of the Union addresses. The decision has historians scratching their heads. All archivists are waiting to see how this will work, because we are all struggling with how to make things available digitally, Peggy Glowacki, a manuscripts librarian at the Richard J. Daley Library at the University of Illinois at Chicago, told the Chicago Tribune. An interesting piece of information to note is evidence surrounding Susan Rice’s role in the ‘unmasking’ probe have been moved to the future library. The documents were moved to the Obama Library and under the Presidential Records Act, Presidential records remain closed to the public for five years after an administration has left office. President of Judicial Watch, Tom Fitton said Wednesday on Fox &amp; Friends that President Trump can obtain these records from the Obama Presidential Library because they are federal records. Fox &amp; Friends host Steve Doocy said that the President himself could obtain the records if he were to ask for them. Tom Fitton: Yes, they are still federal records. They are under the control of the national archives and he can get ’em. If he needs them, then the President can conduct his official duties he can get them, Subpoenas issued by Congress can get them. Special Counsel Mueller, if he decides to actually investigate real crimes like the unmasking, the illicit surveillance, the leaking–he could get them if he issued subpoenas. There are options to get these records and they need to be taken because there could be elements of the records in the other agencies, but these are key White House records about what the White House was up to and that to me is as important as anything else.
President Donald Trump on Tuesday began dismantling the government program protecting hundreds of thousands of young immigrants who were brought into the country illegally as children. Attorney General Jeff Sessions declared the Obama administration’s program an unconstitutional exercise of authority that must be revoked. New applications will be halted for President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, which has provided nearly 800,0 young immigrants a reprieve from deportation and the ability to work legally in the U.S. in the form of two-year, renewable work permits. I’m here today to announce that the program known as DACA that was effectuated under the Obama administration is being rescinded, Sessions announced. Cummins Inc., the Columbus-based global diesel engine maker and power company, issued a statement after the DACA announcement. Here’s the statement by Chairman and CEO Tom Linebarger: The decision by the Trump Administration to rescind DACA is discriminatory, harmful and sets our country back. These young people deserve every opportunity to continue living, working, and thriving in the United States – for nearly all of them the U.S. is the only country they have ever known. Dreamers are our colleagues, our friends and our neighbors. They strengthen our country through daily contributions to our companies, our universities and our communities. We have a moral obligation to help these young people, protect them from living in fear, and to prevent families from being torn apart. Cummins stands in full support of Dreamers and we ask Congress to take immediate action to pass the Dream Act or find a permanent legislative solution to support these young people before anyone is affected by this decision. We hope that Americans speak out and make it clear to Congress and the President that we stand with the Dreamers. Dreamers are our colleagues, friends &amp; neighbors. We are deeply disappointed with todays decision to rescind #DACA. Cummins Inc. (@Cummins) September 5, 2017 Cummins is proud to stand #withDreamers who make our company and our communities stronger. # DefendDACA — Cummins Inc. (@Cummins) September 2, 2017 Cummins currently employs approximately 55,400 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of approximately 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 7,400 dealer locations. Cummins earned $1.39 billion on sales of $17.5 billion in 2016. Groups planning rally in Columbus Some Columbus area churches and organizations are planning a Rally in Support of Dreamers at 6:30 p.m. today at Columbus City Hall, 123 Washington St. The rally is being organized to support immigrant children threatened with deportation, said The Rev. Felipe Martinez, First Presbyterian Church. In an announcement about the rally, organizers said President Donald Trump is planning to rescind the executive order known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). DACA protects from deportation young undocumented immigrants (known as Dreamers) who were brought to the United States as children by their parents, the announcement states. Those who attend the rally will be asked to write to their senators and congressman asking them to pass legislation which would place DACA protections into law. Participants are asked to show their support by bringing American flags and signs expressing love and solidarity. Collaborating partners include First Presbyterian Church, Bartholomew County Indivisible, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Columbus, SuCasa and Islamic Society of Columbus. From Vice President Mike Pence, a Columbus native: From @POTUS: In best interests of country &amp; keeping w/ office of POTUS obligations @DHSgov will begin orderly transition &amp; wind-down of DACA pic.twitter. — Vice President Pence (@VP) September 5, 2017 From @POTUS statement: President Obama made an end-run around Congress and violating the core tenets that sustain our Republic. — Vice President Pence (@VP) September 5, 2017 . @POTUS said, "Only by the reliable enforcement of immigration law can we produce safe communities, a robust middle class &amp; econ. @POTUS: Well resolve DACA &amp; compassion thru lawful Dem process while ensuring immigration reform provides benefits for US citizens — Vice President Pence (@VP) September 5, 2017 Indiana University has also issued a statement. " Indiana University is deeply disappointed in the Trump Administrations decision to end the #DACA program." 1aukEMp9 — Indiana University (@IndianaUniv) September 5, 2017 AP story: Trump rescinding DACA program protecting young immigrants
A Connecticut woman bought a desk from Staples, but after a few years grew tired of it. She decided to sell it to Noah Muroff and his wife for about $150 on Craigslist. There was nothing peculiar about the transaction at all. Muroff and his wife had difficulty fitting the desk into the room. They decided to take it apart to fit it in. After Noah removed the filing cabinets, he noticed a plastic bag poking out. Then he saw that inside there were stacks of them. If we didn’t take those drawers out, we never would have found it, Muroff said. But he knew immediately that he couldn’t keep the money. It turned out she hid her inheritance in the desk and couldn’t remember where she put it. When Muroff called her, she was speechless. She was so shocked and touched that anyone would call, he said. She said, ‘You could have kept the money and nobody would have ever known. Muroff, who is a rabbi, and his wife believe honesty is the most important thing. We both agreed that this is not our money, he said. If God wants us to have $98,0, he’ll make sure to give it to us in some other way. The woman was so grateful, she summed up how she felt in a thank-you card. I do not think there are too many people in this world that would have done what you did by calling me. I do like to believe that there are still good people left in this crazy world we live in. You certainly are one of them, the woman wrote. I cannot thank you enough for your honesty and integrity. Please SHARE this story if you’re glad Noah Muroff did the right thing for the woman! Due to restrictions, this video cannot be viewed in your region.
An online fundraiser for the family of Heather Heyer, who was killed in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday when a car plowed through a group of counterprotesters, has raised nearly $225,0 -- exceeding by more than four times its original goal. Donations continue to pour into the GoFundMe account. TRENDING NOW: Heather Heyer was murdered while protesting against hate, the GoFundMe account creator, Felicia Venita Correa, wrote in the account’s page description. We are raising money to give to her family for anything that they may need. The family is aware of this and is in complete charge of when and where the funds will be released. She is a Greene County native and graduated from William Monroe High School. Her mother (whom I will not name until she is ready) said She died doing what was right. My heart is broken, but I am forever proud of her. The banner image on Heyer’s Facebook page spoke of civic engagement: President Donald Trump addressed Heyer’s death via Twitter without naming her, writing: Condolences to the family of the young woman killed today, and best regards to all of those injured, in Charlottesville, Virginia. First person piece: ‘ This is not my Charlottesville’ Authorities arrested James Alex Fields, 20, of Ohio, and charged him with second-degree murder, three counts of malicious wounding and one count of failing to stop at an accident that resulted in a death. The Associated Press reported three other arrests stemming from Saturday’s chaos in Charlottesville, where people protesting the removal of a statue of Gen. Robert E. Lee clashed with counterprotesters. Troy Dunigan, 21, of Chattanooga, Tennessee, was charged with disorderly conduct; Jacob L. Smith, 21, of Louisa, Virginia, was charged with assault and battery; and James M. O’Brien, 44, of Gainesville, Florida, was charged with carrying a concealed handgun. JUST IN: Booking photo of James Alex Fields, Jr. @NBC29 pic.twitter.com/9nxtsvqNmt — Henry Graff (@HenryGraff) August 13, 2017 In a statement on Saturday, Trump blamed many sides for inciting the violence -- an equivocation that’s drawn criticism from across the political spectrum. Here are comments from Charlottesville Mayor Mike Signer, U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, who was once Trump’s rival for the presidential nomination, and former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder: @realDonaldTrump, thanks, at long last, for condemning hate in speech and action. Mike Signer (@MikeSigner) August 12, 2017 Very important for the nation to hear @potus describe events in #Charlottesville for what they are, a terror attack by #whitesupremacists — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 12, 2017 If ISIS rammed a car into a crowd this would be labeled quickly &amp; logically. Charlottesville - call it what it is, domestic terrorism. — Eric Holder (@EricHolder) August 13, 2017 We agreed that the hate and the division must stop, and must stop right now, Trump said during remarks issued from his New Jersey resort. We have to come together as Americans with love for our nation and true affection for each other, he said. We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides, on many sides. It’s been going on for a long time in our country. It’s been going on for a long, long time. He also called for a swift return of law and order. Here are some excerpts from the statement, posted on Trump’s Twitter feed: We must remember this truth: No matter our color, creed, religion or political party, we are ALL AMERICANS FIRST. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2017 What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives. # 22fgnu6L — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2017 Scott Images © 2018 Cox Media Group.
Thursdays New York Times features accounts by two women who say Donald Trump made unwanted sexual advances. The Trump campaign called the article "fiction," and his lawyer demanded the paper retract its story and issue an apology. Michael Barbaro, New York Times national political reporter and host of the Run-Up podcast, and reporter Megan Twohey join "CBS This Morning" to discuss their article.
The Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Chuck Grassley (R-IA) is asking the FBI questions in what he describes as an alarming development about the debunked Trump dossier. Senator Chuck Grassley sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray last week asking if there is a possibility that the contents of the dossier were surreptitiously funneled from foreign intelligence agencies to U.S. intelligence agencies essentially creating an echo of reporting information from the dossier. Grassley pointed out that Christopher Steele, the British spy who compiled the garbage dossier acknowledged in a London court that he indeed shared the 35-page document with British intelligence agencies. Per the Daily Caller: It is possible that this political dossier’s collusion allegations…may have also been surreptitiously funneled into U.S. intelligence streams through foreign intelligence sharing, Grassley wrote in his letter to Wray. If so, that foreign information would likely have ended up within the FBI’s investigation of allegations of collusion between Trump associates and Russia. According to some reports, foreign intelligence agencies have shared information with U.S. investigators that matches some of the allegations about collusion laid out in the dossier. But Trump and members of his campaign named in the dossier have denied the allegations. Grassley also said, it may not have been clear to the FBI that the foreign reporting was actually based on the work of Mr. Steele and Fusion GPS. If this in fact happened, it would be alarming. As previously reported, a third deadline passed for the FBI and Justice Department to hand over subpoenaed documents to the House Intelligence Committee relating to the debunked Russian dossier on September 22nd. The big question is, did the FBI actually use this garbage dossier to obtain a FISA warrant like reports suggest? The Obama FBI used a secret court order to wiretap Manafort. We the people deserve to know if the debunked dossier was used to obtain this FISA warrant in order to spy on Trump’s camp. What we do know is that Comey cited this dossier in some of his briefings: FBI Director James Comey has cited the dossier in some of his briefings with lawmakers in recent weeks as one of the information sources used by his bureau to bolster its probe, U.S. officials briefed on the investigation told CNN. We also know that Fusion GPS, the company that commissioned the dossier is a Democrat oppo research firm. Via Paul Sperry of the New York Post: A secretive Washington firm that commissioned the dubious intelligence dossier on Donald Trump is stonewalling congressional investigators trying to learn more about its connections to the Democratic Party. Fusion GPS was on the payroll of an unidentified Democratic ally of Clinton when it hired a long-retired British spy to dig up dirt on Trump. In 2012, Democrats hired Fusion GPS to uncover dirt on GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney. And in 2015, Democrat ally Planned Parenthood retained Fusion GPS to investigate pro-life activists protesting the abortion group. One of the most outrageous unconfirmed allegations in the report claims the Russians recorded Trump watching Russian prostitutes urinate on each other in a Moscow hotel room previously occupied by President and Mrs. Barack Obama. And the liberal media and Secret Service and John McCain believed this nonsense? Now we learn Rep. Nunes has issued subpoenas to the firm behind the discredit dossier. Zerohedge reports: CNN reports that Nunes earlier this month issued subpoenas to the founders of Fusion GPS, the Washington opposition research firm that originally helped procure the dossier, demanding that they participate in public hearings before the House Intelligence Committee, and turn over all pertinent documents. Earlier this year, Nunes announced that he was stepping aside from directing the committee’s Russia inquiry when he became the subject of an ethics investigation into his handling of classified information after he informed the White House about the possibility that members of the Trump campaign were legally surveilled during the race before informing his own committee. […] Nunes’ Democratic colleagues have repeatedly accused Nunes of deliberately trying to undermine the FBI’s investigation by forcing the agency to reveal sensitive details about the dossier that the intelligence community previously decided to withhold from the January report on the intelligence community’s finding that Russia had interfered with the election. Here is more background on the now-discredited Trump Dossier. With just ten days to go before he was sworn in as America’s forty-fifth president, the political establishment went nuclear on President-elect Donald Trump with a double-barreled blast of leaked intelligence reports by CNN and BuzzFeed. The documents contained explosive, but unverified, opposition research that alleged intel ties between Russia and Trump and also claims Russia holds sexual blackmail material over Trump.
Stephen Paddock has been identified as the sole suspect in the Las Vegas concert shooting that took place on Sunday night. Police say that Paddock opened fire from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort &amp; Casino, killing 58 people and injuring hundreds more. Police found  more than 10 rifles in Paddock’s hotel room. The 64-year-old Mesquite, Nevada, resident is deceased, according to police. It has been reported that he committed suicide. Just about 12 hours following the attack, the Associated Press reported that ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack, adding that Paddock converted to Islam months ago. BREAKING: Without providing evidence, Islamic State claims Las Vegas attack, says shooter converted to Islam months ago. — The Associated Press (@AP) October 2, 2017 The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for the mass shooting in Las Vegas, saying that the perpetrator was ‘a soldier’ who had converted to Islam months ago, without providing any evidence to support the claim… It did not name the suspected shooter…but said he had ‘executed the operation in response to calls to target countries of the coalition’ batting the extremist group in Iraq and Syria, reports the Associated Press. ISIS has not released any kind of video to support their claims. Many people are skeptical about Paddock’s involvement with the group and officials have yet to confirm or deny any ties between ISIS and Paddock. Paddock’s brother, Eric, spoke to the Daily Mail about the shooting. He told the outlet that his brother didn’t have any political or religious affiliation. Eric also clearly stated his opinion on the shooting, saying it was not a terror arrack. Something happened, he snapped or something. We know absolutely nothing, this is just, we are dumbfounded, Eric Paddock explained. He has no political affiliation, no religious affiliation, as far as we know. This wasn’t a terror attack…He’s my brother, we don’t have a very close relationship but we talk occasionally. There’s no rhyme or reason here, it makes no sense, Eric added. The FBI is not currently investigating any ties between ISIS and Paddock.
Notre Dame Students Walk Out During Mike Pences Commencement Speech More Dozens of students walked out of Vice President Mike Pence’s commencement speech at the University of Notre Dame on Sunday. One student sported a rainbow cape, while a number of others who walked out in protest bore rainbow flags on their graduation caps. Pence, a former governor of Indiana, has a history of hostility toward the LGBTQ community. In his remarks at the Indiana university, the vice president criticized what he called campus safe spaces and urged students not to suppress free speech. While this institution has maintained an atmosphere of civility and open debate, far too many campuses across America have become characterized by speech codes, safe spaces, tone policing, administration-sanctioned political correctness ― all of which amounts to the suppression of free speech, he said. These practices are destructive of learning and the pursuit of knowledge. Pence is not the only political speaker who’s received a mixed welcome at the university. In 2009, then-President Barack Obama faced protests over his support for abortion rights, with some graduates choosing to skip the ceremony altogether.
Put on your tin foil hats, kids — we’ve got a conspiracy theory for you. Is the White House trying to pull a fast one on us by using a Melania Trump stunt double? See the ‘proof’ on Twitter that has voters convinced our FLOTUS is a fraud! There’s a lot to dissect here, but first things first: why would the White House need to deploy a Melania Trump stunt double? Nobody really knows the answer to that question, but it doesn’t have anyone less convinced that President Donald Trump had a Melania decoy by his side during a press conference on the White House lawn on October 13. The masterful conspiracy theory was posited by intrepid internet explorer Andrea Wagner Barber, who posted a video of the presser on Facebook. Andrea pointed out that Melania didn’t look exactly like herself, and thousands on Twitter agreed. Watch the video below, and scroll through this gallery of Melania Pics to see if you can spot the difference! To the casual viewer half-paying attention to another POTUS and FLOTUS appearance, there’s really nothing amiss about Melania. It’s when you look closer that you see some subtle differences. Melania — if that’s her real name — is wearing massive sunglasses that cover half her face. Her lips appear to be much bigger and differently shaped. As some have pointed out, her hair is a little frizzy and dry, far from the pristine condition she usually keeps it in. He says, My wife, Melania, who happens to be right here… Why would he need to point that out? Is he letting the world know that this isn’t Melania, and the real one’s chilling in Air Force One? Thinking about it, this isn’t the first time that he’s seemingly been confused about Melania’s whereabouts while they happen to be in the same room. During their trip to Texas to visit the victims of Hurricane Harvey, he said, Melania wanted to be here today during a press conference. Melania was standing directly beside him in her FLOTUS hat. Did Melania stay home and send out a decoy in her disaster heels? Of course, the most logical answer here is that Melania was simply having a bad hair day, wore a little too much lipliner, and on impulse bought a pair of sunglasses that her friends haven’t told her don’t work yet. Or…the conspiracy theorists have a valid point. Political decoys have been used throughout modern history to protect high-powered individuals from harm, or to attend to duties they cannot fulfill themselves. However, the technique’s been used very sparingly, and most likely wouldn’t work for someone like Melania. Let these voters tell you why they’re absolutely convinced we’ve got a bodysnatcher in the White House: HollywoodLifers, do you think the White House is using a Melania Trump stunt double?
JOHNSTON, Iowa — An Iowa woman faces multiple charges after police said she left her four children home alone while taking a trip to Europe. Erin Lee Macke, 30, of Johnston, is charged with four counts of child endangerment – substantial risk, and one count of transfer of pistol or revolver to a person under 21. Tyler Tompkins told KCCI that Macke left her children ages 12, 12, 7 and 6 alone at home Sept. 20 while she traveled to Germany. Tompkins said the children were left alone for 24 hours before the police department and Iowa Department of Human Services received a tip and visited the children. The children told police, Mom left them and left the country, police said. Tompkins told KCCI that police contacted Macke Sept. 21 and that Macke told officers she planned to be in Germany until Oct. 1. " All of her sitter options fell through, and she left the kids in the care of the two 12-year-olds," Tompkins said. He admitted that the case is well out of the ordinary. I’ve never heard of anything like this before, Tompkins said. We have situations where parents go next door or parents may go out for the night, and while that’s not advisable either depending on the age of the children, obviously leaving the country is a totally different situation. This, where a parent has left the country and left the kids home alone, I’ve never heard of it before. Authorities said they convinced Macke to return to the United States before Oct. 1. She arrived Wednesday evening and was arrested Thursday morning. Police said the 12-year-old children are staying with family and the seven- and six-year-old children are with their father. Macke is charged with one count of transfer of pistol or revolver to a person under 21 because there was a firearm within reach of the children in the home, according to police.
The Destruction of History (Image by YouTube, Channel: Lauren Southern) Permission Details DMCA As I predicted, the erasing of American history will not be limited to Confederate monuments. Last week a member of the board of trustees of the Dallas, Texas, school district recommended changing the name of James Madison High School. James Madison was the father of the US Constitution, considered by Identity Politics, the political ideology of the Democratic Party and the American /left, to be a "racist document." From a British reader comes the news that the various segments of Western society divided into victim groups by Identity Politics have divided very finely and have turned on one another. On September 13, the Trans-Exclusionary Radical Feminists (TERFs) and their bitter enemies, Trans Activists, clashed in a fist fight in Londons Hyde Park. 60-year-old Maria MacLachlan, who describes herself as a "gender critical feminist," was knocked to the ground. The presstitutes at the New York Times even use the crossword puzzle to spread their lies and disinformation. This morning one of the clues was "like the peninsula seized by Russia in 2014." The NYT is referring to Crimea, for 300 years a Russian province with a Russian population that voted by a 97% majority to rejoin Russia when the US overthrew the Ukrainian government in a coup. The NYT presstitutes treat this exercise in democracy as "Russian aggression." As the "newspaper of record," clearly the record is falsified. My northern acquaintances believe that the South, by definition, is racist even though the cities that were the heart of the Confederacy are ruled by black mayors. The mayor of Richmond, Virginia, the capital of the Confederacy, Levar Stoney, is black. The mayor of Atlanta, Kasim Reed, is black. The Mayor of Columbia, South Carolina, Stephen Benjamin, is black. Because of Identity Politics, these black mayors cannot prevent southern history from being cast down the Memory Hole. Any black mayor who stood up for historical truth would be branded an "Uncle Tom." There is no greater absurdity than moving history off its factual basis and substituting a fictional basis as dictated by Identity Politics. In the United States -- indeed, in the entirely of the Western world -- history has become a construction that serves not the truth but special interests. This is the reason that the Western World is doomed. Peoples whose history is destroyed are defenceless. How To Easily Kill 98% Of Mold In Your Home
Getty Images Hillary Clinton’s niece is turning her back on her selfish aunt — to endorse Donald Trump for president. I support Donald Trump 100 percent, Macy Smit, the daughter of Bill Clinton’s half-brother Roger Clinton, declared to RadarOnline. I have been a Democrat my entire life, but Trump is what we need right now — somebody who is going to stand up for us. I think at this point Hillary just wants it for the history books — to be the first woman president for selfish reasons, the Tampa hairstylist continued. Smit, 25, admitted she’s never met Hillary Clinton, and said that side of the family doesn’t think much of her. Something tells me the Clinton side looks at me and my mother as not good enough, but we’re hard-working, Smit told the gossip site. Roger Clinton was a deadbeat dad who dumped Smit’s mom, Martha Spivey, shortly after she became pregnant with his child, according to RadarOnline. Hillary says she’s all about family, but she’s got a niece she’s never met and never acknowledged. Hillary’s lost the trust of even more voters with her inconsistencies:
CNNs Don Lemon discusses a potential "whitelash" created by President Trump with network contributor Van Jones and his panel. From Fridays broadcast of CNN Tonight: DON LEMON, CNN: So were back now with my panel. Scott Jennings, Van Jones and David Swerdlick. Because it shows that -- I think that most people think that the players have the right to do it. They have the right, that theyre doing the right thing or that they had the right to do it, not that theyre doing the right thing. Van, Im not sure if that is what you wanted to comment on. LEMON: I see it differently because everyone, listen, when taking a knee, that is in reverence. What the issue is that -- in that poll, 60 percent of Americans think that President Trump did the wrong thing by criticizing the athletes. Of course they say you should stand up for the flag. JONES: I mean Donald Trump never misses an opportunity to miss an opportunity. Heres an issue where his concern is this line with public opinion, but the way he deals with it is actually, you know, puts him in a super minority in terms of people who are able to somehow bring himself to support his language and demeanor. I want to say this as clearly as I can say it. As time goes on, the Muhammad Alis and all the people that raised those issues, they then become heroes later. Theyre heroes later on when people reflect on the courage they showed and the issues that they raised. LEMON: Another message, David, from the President seems to be that he gets to define what patriotism is and who is patriotic. And I think he is made the mistake here kind of along the lines of what Van is saying by casting his view in the way that he did. There was a point just a week ago where the owners and management in the NFL were a lot closer to the position of the President by castigating the players in this way, he has driven the owners closer to the players because they -- I think been able to see that, ok, now when you have the players versus the President of the United States, you can see more clearly what the players are trying to do. LEMON: Not to rush you guys along but I want to get to two things. Were all Americans and were all in this experience together. But theres an important set of rituals we go through that sort of give us that every now and then reminder that, hey, were all Americans and what does it mean to be an American? Trump has a visceral reaction, a lot of his supporters do. Is that this President has had the chance to elevate and educate people to realize that just by draping yourself in the flag is not necessarily patriotism. That is just a ritual and rituals can be hollow. You saw that happening in Germany, very far right people who made it to parliament in Germany. I think that we have forgotten -- weve got of lost the plot here. Donald Trump is a rich celebrity -- LEMON: All the time. Apparently its ok to be a rich celebrity and complain. Theyre getting text messages from cousins. The street violence and the police violence. Theyre doing a good thing for American racist issues.
Hamburg police officers have received £3.9 million worth of equipment to battle ISIS Officers from the BFE, Germany’s special police unit, modelled their elaborate gear at a special press conference in the city. Haenel assault rifles, heavy-duty ballistic protection helmets and body armour are items amongst the long-list of equipment that at least 70 police officers received to use in the event of a terrorist attack. According to the German news website NDR.de, the decision to equip the police force with the expensive heavy-duty equipment was due to the ongoing threat posed by Islamic State. The Survivor 1 armoured personal carrier, which will be used for anti-terror police operations, can deal with chemical, nuclear and biological warfare agents in order to protect officers inside the vehicle from exposure. Mon, July 25, 2016 Ansbach explosion: Syrian asylum seeker killed by own bomb at German bar Police secure an area after an explosion in Ansbach, near Nuremberg The heavy-duty SK4 rated protection gear can even stop a round fired from an AK-47 rifle. Germany splashed the cash on the Hamburg’s police unit a few weeks after ISIS claimed responsibility for the stabbing of two people in Hamburg on October 16. A few days later, German police officers were called to raid refugee centres and homes in Hamburg, North Rhine-Westphalia, Bavaria, Saxony and Thuringia to find suspects who were involved in organised criminal actives such as bodily harm, blackmail, illegal restraint and harassment. The heavy-duty SK4 rated protection gear can even stop a round fired from an AK-47 rifle Germany splashed the cash on the Hamburg’s police unit a few weeks after ISIS claimed responsibility for the stabbing of two people in Hamburg on October 16. The armour can deal with chemical, nuclear and biological warfare agents A few days later, German police officers were called to raid refugee centres and homes in Hamburg, North Rhine-Westphalia, Bavaria, Saxony and Thuringia to find suspects who were involved in organised criminal actives such as bodily harm, blackmail, illegal restraint and harassment. Only 70 police officers from Hamburg will have access to the new equipment
brightcove.createExperiences(); Donald Trump is one step closer to securing the Republican nomination for president. Following Tuesday night’s primary in Indiana, the GOP front-runner was named the presumptive nominee after Texas Senator Ted Cruz announced that he was suspending his campaign. Donald Trump will be presumptive GOP nominee, we all need to unite and focus on defeating @HillaryClinton #NeverClinton, Republican Party chairman Reince Priebus tweeted. Although, Trump and Cruz were far from cordial opponents throughout the race, the billionaire businessman said what Cruz did was a brave thing to do because we want to bring unity. While Cruz revealed he was leaving the race as there no longer seemed to be a viable path to the White House, Ohio Governor John Kasich has not announced the end of his campaign. However, even with Kasich still in the race, Trump sits in a comfortable position to officially take the nomination if he secures the required 1,237 delegates needed to win his party. Tonight’s results are not going to alter Gov. Kasich’s campaign plans, Kasich’s chief strategist John Weaver said, according to CNN. Our strategy has been and continues to be one that involves winning the nomination at an open convention. While Kasich’s camp continues to be optimistic, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton‘s campaign – which also took a blow to her campaign when Senator Bernie Sanders won Indiana – released a statement, condemning the announcement that Trump is the Republican party’s presumptive nominee. Fundamentally, our next president will need to do two things: keep our nation safe in a dangerous world and help working families get ahead here at home, the statement, obtained by PEOPLE, read. Donald Trump is not prepared to do either. Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump has demonstrated that he’s too divisive and lacks the temperament to lead our nation and the free world. With so much as stake, Donald Trump is simply too big of a risk. Hillary Clinton has proven that she has the strength to keep us safe in an uncertain world and a lifelong record of fighting to break down the barriers – economic and social – that hold working families back. While Donald Trump seeks to bully and divide Americans, Hillary Clinton will unite us to create an economy that works for everyone. While Trump ignored any criticism, saying during his victory speech at Trump tower, We’re going to win in November, he faced backlash from another opponent in the form anti-Trump adds that the Progressive Change Campaign Committee has released in an accelerated campaign against Trump. According to a press release from the PC, the ads will highlight Trump’s hate-mongering, his disrespect for women, and his belief that American wages are ‘too high’. We have already begun running ads across the nation hitting Donald Trump – defining him early and moving the debate to our turf. WATCH: Voters React to Ted Cruz Dropping Out of the Presidential Race Other opponents of the real estate mogul quickly vocalized their opinions, including former adviser to Jeb Bush Tim Miller who currently serves as the spokesman for an anti-Trump super-PAC, Our Principles PAC. Simple as that, Miller tweeted Despite lots of criticism, the presidential hopeful did find support in Sarah Palin, who has endorsed the former reality star before, but also took to Facebook sharing a video in which she calls for unity on the road to making America great again. Trump also spoke about unity on Tuesday night, adding in his speech that his focus is on bringing the Republican Party together after and amazing evening.
Illegal aliens, paid Soros protesters, angry Black Lives Matter terrorists inspired by Obama’s race war and Bernie Sanders supporters who have absolutely no idea why they showed up, sent four innocent police officers to the hospital; prevented thousands of innocent Americans from exercising their First Amendment right. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. Where are all of these concerned citizens (especially the Black Lives Matter terrorists) to protest for a solution for the murder of 117 people in Chicago already this year? Stats via: heyjackass.com Trending: NEW MEXICO FIVE Planned Terror Attack At Atlanta Hospital…Judge Let Them Out On Bond! George Soros Moveon.org group takes responsiblity for Alinsky style violent protests against free speech at Trump rally: Moveon.org shows its support for Socialist, Bernie Sanders. Here they warn anyone who opposes his radical ideology: Four police officers were sent to hospital: Violence against police officers is not only acceptable with Bernie Sanders and Black Lives Matter terrorists, its necessary to create chaos and panic: What kind of violent protest would be complete without Barack Obama’s good friend, domestic terrorist Bill Ayers: Actual terrorist Bill Ayers is protesting against trump in Chicago. pic.twitter.com/7dqat4Dvmh It’s probably just a coincidence that on a day that Obama was too busy to attend Nancy Reagan’s funeral, he was able to address a crowd about his hate for Trump only hours before this organized chaos in Chicago: And finally, we’re wondering how much our Organizer In Chief had to do with this Alinsky style chaos in Chicago:
Apparently, condemning the NFLs kneeling protests of the national anthem is a step too far for CNN commentator Keith Boykin. He believes that, because of President Trumps tweeting, he sees an anti African-American trend -- that Trump is a racist puppet master, attempting to pull the strings on the black community. Boykin said, "We have a white supremacist president of the United States. And the CNN host even called him out for saying that, questioning whether he could back up that statement. But, then he said something even more radical: Its not about respect for the flag. Its about fanning the flames of racial hatred and this president is a master of that and thats the reason why he’s playing plantation politics. He thinks apparently that he is a slave master of black people in the NFL, of black people in the country.
Former chair of the House Democratic Caucus Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif. ( AP Harnik) A clearer picture is coming into focus on the Democrat IT scandal that may help explain why Democrats have been so reluctant to condemn the Awans or help the police with the investigation. It also might explain why former DNC chair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz has been so jumpy lately. New information about a massive cybersecurity breach, gleaned from a senior House official with direct knowledge of the investigation, implicates the former chair of the House Democratic Caucus, then-Rep. Xavier Becerra, who is now the attorney general of California and a rising star in Democratic politics. Xavier Becerra was told by cops his server had major cybersecurity issues re: Imran. A fake server was given to cops Hes remained silent.— Luke Rosiak (@lukerosiak) September 13, 2017 This scandal isnt about bank fraud, folks. Kudos to Luke Rosiak of The Daily Caller for chasing down this story, even as the Democratic media complex either poo-pooed or ignored the growing scandal. As Ace of Spades noted, at some point the legacy media is going to have the explain to their audiences why they didnt report on this major story all year long. A secret server is behind law enforcement’s decision to ban a former IT aide to Democratic Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz from the House network. Now-indicted former congressional IT aide Imran Awan allegedly routed data from numerous House Democrats to a secret server. Police grew suspicious and requested a copy of the server early this year, but they were provided with an elaborate falsified image designed to hide the massive violations. The falsified image is what ultimately triggered their ban from the House network Feb. 2, according to a senior House official with direct knowledge of the investigation. The secret server was connected to the House Democratic Caucus, an organization chaired by then-Rep. Police informed Becerra that the server was the subject of an investigation and requested a copy of it. Authorities considered the false image they received to be interference in a criminal investigation, the senior official said. Data was also backed up to Dropbox in huge quantities, the official said. Congressional offices are prohibited from using Dropbox, so an unofficial account was used, meaning Awan could have still had access to the data even though he was banned from the congressional network. Awan had access to all emails and office computer files of 45 members of Congress who are listed below. Fear among members that Awan could release embarrassing information if they cooperated with prosecutors could explain why the Democrats have refused to acknowledge the cybersecurity breach publicly or criticize the suspects. According to the DCNFs source, the Awans’ use of Dropbox went well beyond casual use. They were "funneling of huge quantities of data offsite where it could not be taken back by House authorities."
Donald Trump lit a fresh controversy this week with his suggestion that "Second Amendment people" could stop Hillary Clinton from naming her judicial picks, if she becomes president - a remark many interpreted as a suggestion that gun rights activists could violently target Clinton or her judicial nominees. "" If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks," Trump said at a rally on Tuesday. " Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I dont know. But Ill tell you what, that will be a horrible day." Trump and his defenders say critics misread the remark. They insist the GOP nominee was merely talking about Second Amendment supporters peacefully exercising their political power to prevent Clinton from appointing jurists to the federal bench. And some have pointed to a similar gaffe Clinton made in 2008 to argue that Trump deserves the benefit of the doubt. As the Democratic nomination was slipping from her grasp in May 2008, Clinton faced calls to drop out and endorse then-Illinois Sen. Barack Obama, whod at that point built a virtually insurmountable lead in the primary. When she was asked by a South Dakota newspaper at the end of that month why she was still running, Clinton replied, "You know, my husband did not wrap up the nomination in 1992 until he won the California primary somewhere in the middle of June, right? .We all remember Bobby Kennedy was assassinated in June in California." To some, Clintons response suggested she was staying in the race because there was a possibility Obama could be killed, as Bobby Kennedy had been during the 1968 Democratic primary. After an indignant eruption from Obamas team, Clinton quickly backtracked: "I regret that if my referencing that moment of trauma for our entire nation and in particular the Kennedy family was in any way offensive. I certainly had no intention of that whatsoever." It wasnt quite a pristine mea culpa - she apologized "if" her remark was "in any way offensive," not for the remark itself. But its worth noting that she was considerably more contrite than Trump has been in response to his own misstep. 66 Photos Best photos of campaign 2016 "Give me a break," Trump scoffed to Fox News when asked about the criticism. His campaign released a statement blaming the "dishonest media" for manufacturing the controversy. On May 25, 2008, days after Clintons remark on RFK, her spokesman, Howard Wolfson, appeared on "Face the Nation" to offer the campaigns version of events. " What she clearly said, and what she meant, was that, in previous election cycles--and she referenced first her husbands in 1992, and then 1968--weve had campaigns that have gone on into June and actually beyond," he said. " And so her reference to Senator Kennedy was a historical reference. The people in the room in South Dakota where she said this at the newspaper found nothing peculiar about it. She has said this before; there was no commentary or discussion about it when shed said it before. And I think, unfortunately, her remarks have been blown out of proportion. She very quickly made clear what she meant. If she caused anyone any discomfort or pain--because it is obviously a very sensitive topic--she apologized. But she was talking about it in a historical context." Still, Wolfson later added, he didnt believe Clinton owed Obama a personal apology. " Her remarks were not about Senator Obama," Wolfson explained. " They had nothing to do with Senator Obama. And so, you know, there would be no reason for her to apologize to Senator Obama."
On July 28 1982, President Ronald Reagan designated August 14 as Navajo Code Talkers Day. Reagan called it a day dedicated to "all members of the Navajo Nation and to all Native Americans who gave their special talents and their lives so that others might live." " When called upon to serve the United States, [the Navajo Nation] contributed a precious commodity never before used in this way. In the midst of the fighting in the Pacific during World War II, a gallant group of men from the Navajo Nation utilized their language in coded form to help speed the Allied victory." According to the U.S. Marine Corps, Code Talkers took part in every assault by Marines in the Pacific during the war from 1942 to 1945 serving in all Marine six divisions. The Code Talkers were a vital part to the Allied forces victory as the Navajo language is the only spoken code to have never been deciphered. " The dedication and unswerving devotion to duty shown by the men of the Navajo Nation," Reagan said the proclamation, "should serve as a fine example for all Americans."
DACA recipients have seized on American millennials ability to receive financial aid and college scholarships in multiple states. ( AP Luis Magana) Asking the wrong questions will yield the wrong answers. If you ask yourself, as President Trump did — Does anybody really want to throw out good, educated and accomplished young people who have jobs, some serving in the military? [.] They have been in our country for many years through no fault of their own — brought in by parents at a young age- you will surely find the answer is no. However, if you ask yourself if you should support the proposed resurgence of the flagrantly unconstitutional and unjust amnesty that greatly disadvantages American millennials, the answer is less clear. The resurgence of the debate over the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy would put all millennials in direct competition with illegal immigrants who were granted DACA permits, whether it be through college admissions, job opportunities, or wages. DACA creates competition in the higher education system that inherently favors illegal immigrants through policies such as affirmative action. Affirmative action mandates equal opportunities for, and often results in a larger presence of, minority groups in workplaces and, most notably, universities. Dreamers with permits qualify for affirmative action, giving young immigrants an advantage over not just the skilled worker, but also American college applicants. DACA recipients have seized on American millennials’ ability to receive financial aid and college scholarships in multiple states. Approximately one out of every four DACA recipients — about 200,0 individuals — live in California. California allows Dreamers to receive in-state college tuition and 19 other states have followed suit. The California Dream Act, embolden by DACA, has set a precedent for states to generously allocate funding to students who have entered or were brought into the country Illegally. California is merely one example of states diverting funding from the middle class to fund Dreamers. To fund the Cal Grant entitlement for the state’s neediest students, California has phased-out the Middle-Class Scholarship Program. Implementing the California Dream Act made certain that undocumented and nonresident students are eligible for state financial aid, and that alone accounts for $67 million of the increase in Cal Grant spending. California serves as an example of how scholarship and state-funded aid for the average DACA recipient creates a disadvantage for Americans of similar income classes. Middle-Class American students are less likely to receive financial aid from universities and institutions, due to the diverting funds, implemented in State Dream Acts, emboldened by DACA. Currently, over 10 percent of millennials remain unemployed. There are 800,0 millennials from other countries who are competing legally in the workplace for the same occupations where American millennials are looking for work. According to the Migration Policy Institute, there are an estimated 2.1 million illegal immigrants who are DACA-eligible in the United States in addition to the 800,0 already enrolled. However, the ultimate issue facing both millennials and Americans is that DACA allows for unjust amnesty. The United States admits approximately 1 million legal permanent immigrants every year, which is more than any other nation in the world. It is unjust to the millions of Americans and resident legal immigrants who followed the rules. Giving blanket amnesty to those who neglect to follow our laws is irresponsible and rewards those who fail to follow the rules. Refusing to enforce the law equally, by making special exceptions for favored groups, puts a burden on citizens and lawful residents in the states (especially border states) with the irresponsible federal abdication of immigration law. DACA also blatantly encourages more illegal immigrants to enter the United States in hopes of future amnesty. Granting legal status to Dreamers streamlines the pipeline of illegal immigration through extended family sponsorship. The narrative on DACA touts the promise of the American dream by advertising the many who have benefited from the system. Sydney Jacobs (@the_poli_chick), a Las Vegas, Nevada native, currently resides in Washington D.C and works in Republican politics.
By: Rachel Blevins/ The Free Thought Project President Trump issued his first official pardon on Friday, sparing former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was found guilty of criminal contempt after he violated a court order in a racial profiling case by continuing to target illegal immigrants. While both Trump and many of his supporters have applauded Arpaio, who refers to himself as America’s toughest sheriff, there is one thing he is not always tough on—pedophiles. In fact, according to a report from the Associated Press in December 2011, Airpaio’s office failed to investigatemore than 400 sex-crimes that were reported in Maricopa County from 2005 to 2007, including dozens of alleged child molestations—that were inadequately investigated and in some instances were not worked at all. The report cited current and former police officers familiar with the cases who claimed that victims of the horrific crimes were as young as 2 years old. In El Mirage, the city where Arpaio’s office was providing contract police services, officials reportedly discovered at least 32 reported child molestations, and even though suspects were known in all but six cases, Arpaio failed to follow through. While Arpaio made headlines for his infamous Tent City Jail, a camp in which nearly 1,0 illegal immigrants were forced to live outdoors in Arizona’s sweltering 120-degree heat, he did not make headlines for his treatment of the children of illegal immigrants. According to the officers who worked with him, many of those children were victims of sex crimes, which Arpaio ignored, as he let their American citizen predators run free. After Arpaio’s contract ended, and his office was no longer required to provide police services for El Mirage, Detective Jerry Laird told the AP he found that an overwhelming majority of the cases he received from the office hadn’t been worked, which meant that there were no follow-up reports, no collection of additional forensic evidence and zero effort made after the initial report of the crime was taken. While some of the cases Arpaio’s office neglected were turned over to prosecutors, the report noted that the El Mirage Police Department claimed most were no longer viable—evidence dating as far back as 2006 had grown cold or wasn’t collected in the first place, victims had either moved away or otherwise moved on. Arpaio held a news conference in response to the 2011 report, in which he said, If there were any victims, I apologize to those victims. As The Free Thought Project has reported, a number of cases involving pedophiles have come to light under the Trump Administration, such as a pedophile ring investigation that resulted over 900 arrests in May, and a sex-trafficking investigation that resulted in over 1,0 arrests earlier this month. This raises the question—why aren’t Arpaio and other members of his office being held to the same standards? Joe Arpaio’s harsh treatment towards illegal immigrants has stirred up controversy, but his outright neglect of children who are victims of sex crimes seems to have slipped under the radar. Children have no control over which country they are born in, and they are the most vulnerable to predators. If a child is a victim of a sex crime, the question of whether the predators are illegal aliens or legal American citizens should not keep officials like Sheriff Arpaio from holding them accountable for their actions, and he should be held accountable for his failure to do so.
There has been no shortage of talk recently about taking action to remove President Donald Trump from office, with Trump’s Charlottesville response proving to be a breaking point for many Republicans who had previously supported him. However, journalist Joan Walsh cautioned Americans to take a long, hard look at Trump’s would-be successor Mike Pence before we get excited about Pence being behind the Resolute desk in place of Trump. Wrote Walsh in an article bluntly titled Why Mike Pence is Worse than Donald Trump in The Nation, You probably have these debates with your friends, too: Do we want Donald Trump to resign, or be impeached, which would leave us with Vice President Mike Pence in charge?…Would the low-charisma Pence, who looks like a B-movie producer’s idea of a president, be easier to defeat, especially given the GOP fratricide that would commence with Trump’s departure, however it came about? She continued, I try never to care about the political implications of whether Trump should stay or go. He should go, because he’s a racist authoritarian who got help from a foreign adversary to become president. He should go, because he’s more likely to stumble into war than Pence is. But I never let that obscure the truth, either: Pence is a far worse person, because of his creepy Handmaid’s Tale patriarchal approach to women’s equality. But also because he usually knows he’s lying about Trump, and their administration’s agenda, and he lies anyway. Walsh then brought up disturbing comments the vice president made this past week during an appearance on the Today show. Said Pence, protesting the removal of Confederate monuments, When I walked, back in 2010, across the Edmund Pettus Bridge with John Lewis, arm in arm, and we remembered Bloody Sunday, and the extraordinary progress of the civil rights movement, I can’t help but think that rather than pulling down monuments, as some are wont to do, rather than tearing down monuments that have graced our cities all across this country for years, we ought to be building more monuments. Commented Joan about Pence, I don’t think he gives a damn about the folks who protest these shameful statues. What was most galling about Pence’s comment, though, was that he used his bond with Lewis to clean up Trump’s despicable equation of Nazis and white supremacists with their opponents, who are the modern-day incarnation of John Lewis.
MSNBC host Joe Scarborough expressed wariness on Thursday morning about the timing and source of the recent slew of sexual assault allegations against Donald Trump. The Morning Joe host speculated that allegations by multiple women in publications such as People magazine, The New York Times, BuzzFeed, and the Palm Beach Post may have been coordinated by Hillary Clinton’s campaign. He argued that sexual assault victims would have had months to come forward with allegations, and cited Trump’s inflammatory comments about Fox News host Megyn Kelly as a potential triggering event. . @JoeNBC on new accusations against Trump: I’m sceptical about the *timing*… Talk about an October surprise. 2gP5QD99 — Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) October 13, 2016 I’m talking about the timing of all of this dropping, talk about an October surprise, Scarborough said. There have been 1,0 triggering events that would have made sense. If I had been sexually harassed by this man, the Megyn Kelly story would have given me and opportunity. He added: There have been 1,0 reports of this already. I’m just asking why all the sudden this stuff is dropping in October. The allegations come after a 2005 video was released on Friday showing the Republican presidential nominee boasting about kissing and forcing himself on women without their permission. During the second presidential debate, Trump denied that he ever sexually assaulted women. The Trump campaign is already pushing back against the allegations. Trump’s attorneys sent a letter to the New York Times early Thursday morning denying the allegations and threatening to sue the paper for defamation if the paper didn’t issue a retraction. The real-estate magnate also took to Twitter to defend himself. The phoney story in the failing @nytimes is a TOTAL FABRICATION. Written by same people as last discredited story on woman. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2016 Why didn’t the writer of the twelve year old article in People Magazine mention the incident in her story. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2016 NOW WATCH: Briefing videos Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.
Souvenirs from this weeks Republican National Convention in Cleveland took no prisoners. From Trump bumper stickers that call Clinton the B-word (wow) to a poster depicting Clinton in dominatrix gear (double wow) to Trump- and Clinton-themed condoms (triple wow), the swag was as surreal and distasteful as this historic election has been — and thats saying something.
Billy &amp; Hells for TIME When dozens of women came forward with sexual assault and harassment allegations against Harvey Weinstein—who has continued to deny all allegations of non-consensual sex—actor Terry Crews noticed that some people on Twitter were skeptical. The agency said they suspended and demoted Venit, who declined to comment for this article. Crews is now suing Venit and the agency for sexual assault. Crews spoke to TIME about the reception to his story and why it’s imperative that men advocate for women’s rights. What was the moment you decided to speak out about what happened to you? I remember going to my phone and I started writing. What it became was this sixteen-tweet missive from me. Watch: Why the Silence Breakers Are the 2017 Person of the Year Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration Time 0:00 Loaded: 0% 0:00 Progress: 0% 0:00 Progress: 0% Stream TypeLIVE Remaining Time -0:00 Playback Rate 1 Chapters Chapters descriptions off, selected Descriptions subtitles off, selected Subtitles captions settings, opens captions settings dialog captions off, selected Captions Audio Track This is a modal window. Caption Settings Dialog Beginning of dialog window. In a matter of hours it had become the #1 trending topic on Twitter. Until men stand up and say, This harassment, this abuse, these assaults are wrong, nothing will change. I always have felt women have been able to take care of themselves, 100%. But men need to hold other men accountable. You’re in places and guys are saying the wildest thing. You need to be held accountable for the things you say, the things you do. What it came from is literally a belief that as a man you are more valuable than a woman. The reason I have the authority to say it is because I was like it. People were saying, You should have beat him up. If there are actual witches there, we need to stop them. All these people need to be disciplined into knowing what is acceptable and what isn’t. This is something that gives my life meaning. There’s no reason why—why should I be the guy to survive Flint, Michigan; survive forty-nine years on this Earth; married twenty-eight years with five kids, the whole thing—and then I just sit in my big house and relax. Is Hollywood a microcosm for how power is imbalanced in the rest of the world? It is in every field, in every business, in sports, in politics. The pimp culture, where guys are praised for having two or three girls. If you’re a Republican, you can’t gloss over those problems in your party. And sometimes you’ve got to be willing to walk alone. When I went through my trauma, she was right there with me. I’m very thankful to have a wise woman on my team. This interview has been edited and condensed.
Week of August 7: Monday August 7: Joey puts himself in harm’s way to save Kayla. Brady interrogates Victor, who finally comes clean. Gabi makes a difficult decision regarding Chad. Tuesday August 8: "Marlena" breaks up with John. Bradys jealousy threatens to push him over the edge. Nicole makes a risky move to be near Holly. Wednesday August 9: Hattie breaks Bonnie out of Statesville. Steve and Kayla clash over the situation with Tripp and Joey. Brady gets the wrong idea about Nicole and Eric. Thursday August 10: More: Days recap: Chad plays the martyr and turns himself in to the police More: Beloved, unforgettable soap characters who touch our hearts Tripp secretly decides to skip town. Anjelica meets with Bonnie for the first time and explains her first order of business. Chad and Abigails reunion takes a surprising turn. Friday August 11: More: Deconstructing DOOL: A well-rounded week showcased zaniness, drama and that Chabby reunion Bonnie breaks Lucass heart. Brady breaks into Erics room and makes a shocking discovery. Chad and Sonny compare notes about the night of Deimoss murder. Find late-breaking Days of our Lives news, and who is coming and going at Days of our Lives. Follow Soaps.com on Twitter, Days of our Lives on Twitter, Soaps.com on Facebook and Soaps.com on Instagram.
Sabrina Rubin Erdely An attorney for the former University of Virginia dean suing Rolling Stone for defamation alleged during closing arguments that the magazine’s campus rape story was reported with a reckless disregard for the truth. Attorney Tom Clare charged that Rolling Stone needed a villain for the Nov. 2014 feature piece — and the story’s author, Sabrina Erdely, decided former associate dean of students Nicole Eramo fit the bill. Every one of her stories has a victim, a villain and a vindicator … Ms. Erdely and Rolling Stone were intent on imposing that on this story, Clare said. It had all of the elements of a perfect story, but when something sounds too perfect to be true, it probably is. Eramo, who is seeking $7.5 million, claims the since-discredited story portrayed her as turning a blind eye to gang rape claims made by a former student identified as Jackie. Clare argued that the defamation case is not about rape, but about journalistic failure. The lawyer said Erdely left out important details in her piece on purpose, like the fact that Eramo took Jackie to the police on two separate occasions. ‘ Every one of her stories has a victim, a villain and a vindicator…’ They made a decision to remove [from the article] every reference to the police and that’s actual malice, he said. Clare also blasted Erdely for ignoring red flags, such as Jackie’s refusal to put her in touch with sources who could corroborate her alleged gang rape account. Jackie’s refusal to put Ms. Erdely in touch with people who could confirm or deny her story was a giant, waving red flag, he insisted. Once they decided what the article was going to be, it didn’t matter what the facts were, Clare added. Rolling Stone’s attorney Scott Sexton countered that Erdely put a tremendous amount of work into the article, but was ultimately fooled by Jackie. Sabrina was acting in good faith when she wrote the article with the information she had, he insisted. Our world would shut down if we walked out that court room door and expected everyone to lie to us. Sexton also said that because Eramo is a public figure, Erdely had every right to criticize her. She is a highly compensated public servant… we are entitled as citizens to criticize a public figure, he explained. Sexton argued that Eramo’s attorneys are intent on proving that the story was republished in Dec. 2014 — when the magazine added an editor’s note to the piece after Jackie’s rape account had been called into question — because they, have no case for actual malice before then. One of the questions jurors will be asked is whether they believe that Rolling Stone affirmatively reiterated the content of any false and defamatory statements.
— As a survivor of childhood sexual trauma, there are many misconceptions I live with on a daily basis. My pain is treated as fodder for jokes and people with backgrounds like mine are assumed to be abusers-in-the-making. It’s impossible for some of us to even understand what an innate gender or sexual identity would even feel like. Our entire perception of our true gender and orientation is mutilated by our experiences. It’s a well-established fact that child abuse does not cause homosexuality or gender fluidity, nor does gender fluidity or homosexuality cause people to become child abusers. This is an important truth that needs to be continually disseminated as too many people still think there is a causal link in one direction or both. It is unfortunate, however, that the well-intentioned desire to keep the LGBT community from being maligned has resulted in the experiences of many CSA victims being silenced because it confuses the narrative. It is a testimony that is actually quite simple: for many victims of CSA, especially repeated CSA, nothing about their identity can be fully separated from the early trauma. That includes sexual orientation and gender identity. Which means that many CSA survivors will tell you that they cannot say with a straight face that their perception of their gender identity or sexual orientation was not shunted down a different road by their experiences. Obviously not all, or even the majority if, gay CSA victims attribute their orientation to their abuse. What it does mean, however, is that men who do say their identity was affected by their trauma should not be dismissed out of hand. Such experiences can rewire the brain into seeking out similar situations as an adult for complex psychological reasons other than because of natural inclination. On its face, the term is benign and non-judgmental. In usage, however, it is a denial of orientation as an innate and non-changing element. That aspect of it, which when applied to homosexuals en masse is insulting and invalidating, is ironically exactly why some CSA survivors willingly apply it to themselves. Because they are not convinced that their sexual attraction to men was not the result of early trauma. In fact, they feel as if recognizing that attraction and their true orientation are at odds is actually a more authentic description of themselves. I’ve seen the term abuse reactive to label the difference between people who are able to know themselves apart from the abuse and people for whom the self before the trauma is a black hole difficult or even impossible to ever fully explore. One of the confusing aspects to this is that throughout history and even to this day, boys who showed effeminate characteristics were and are more likely to be denied a proper support system. They are more likely to be bullied and socially isolated and seen as unsatisfactory by both peers and adults. This puts them at a greater risk of abuse. No child is immune from the risk of being preyed upon, but many predators look for the outcast unlikely to be listened to or believed and desperate for ANY adult attention. Across his entire lifespan, a male is most in danger of being sexually assaulted between the ages of 4 and 13. Think about what you didn’t know about yourself at age 7. The correct lesson is to believe individuals. For those who say I was always this way, believe them. For those who say I can’t tell you for sure or I’m pretty sure my SSA was caused by my abuse, believe them too. Don’t silence their voice because some people might misinterpret it. Don’t assume you know their true selves better than they do. —
People are hungry to learn more about Hillary Clinton’s Wikileaks scandal, but you wouldn’t know it if you get your news from the mainstream media. The search term Wikileaks dwarfs the term Trump Women, according to an info graphic shown on Fox &amp; Friends on Saturday, but the network news coverage does not reflect the interest. ABC News devoted four minutes to discussing Trump’s sex scandals while NBC did 5 minutes and CBS did 3 minutes on the topic. By contrast, ABC spent a paltry one minute on Clinton’s Wikileaks scandal while CBS devoted two minutes to the email leaks. With precisely no coverage at all the peacock network simply pretended the scandal didn’t exist. trump-women-vs-wikileaksw Play Video Not many on social media were surprised. . @tuckercarlson: Here’s a breakdown [of coverage] for the three major networks. pic.twitter.com/9wY725Tipa — Fox News (@FoxNews) October 14, 2016 This the game Hillary is playing, The accusers come out of the woodwork and chew up the Air Time, all the Plan — OhReally (@OhReally22) October 15, 2016 @FoxNews @TuckerCarlson What hope do we have for a fair and prosperous future if the media insists on covering up corruption? 😪🙏🇺🇸🙏 — Deb (@ddefrankie) October 15, 2016 The MSM is so afraid of Hillary’s negatives they avoid — Hopper (@sofshoe) October 15, 2016 @FoxNews @TuckerCarlson Of course it is covered more. I am sick of her free and to run for president. — Frances Shelton (@FrancesShelto20) October 15, 2016 @FoxNews @TuckerCarlson this is a shame. Media is not supposed to be biased, but these outlets are bought by the Clintons. # clintonslaves — Tommy Mora (@TommyTommyjmora) October 15, 2016 @FoxNews @TuckerCarlson Of course they do not report news, they are a Dems PR outlets no journalists, come on! —
Harvey Weinstein may end up losing all his money and going to prison for life after his sexual assault accusations, HollywoodLife.com has EXCLUSIVELY learned. Harvey Weinstein, 65, could be in deep trouble regarding the sexual assault claims from the many women who have come forward. In order to go to prison, Harvey would have to be convicted of a felony, like rape, Darren Kavinoky, California Criminal Defense Attorney of 1.800.No. Cuffs shared EXCLUSIVELY with HollywoodLife.com. In order for him to go to prison, he would have to get sentenced for more than a year. What is dangerous about Harvey’s behavior, and crimes of a sexual nature, is that he could be subject to consecutive sentencing. When you are talking about sex offenses, you get mandatory consecutive sentencing where the punishments stack one on top of another. So you get these really insanely long sentences in sex based cases that you don’t see in other areas of law. If multiple women come forward and he is accused then convicted of many sex crimes, molestation, harassment and ultimately rape, he could easily be behind state prison bars for 10, 20, 30 years or even longer depending on how many women come forward and what he is ultimately convicted of, Darren continued. Furthermore, all of his alleged victims could, after criminal convictions, victims could then sue Harvey civilly for damages. With a net worth of an estimated $800 Million Dollars, depending on the number of victims, Harvey could easily lose his fortune in court, to his victims. He could be wiped out, and spend the rest of his life behind bars, broke, penniless and disgraced. In addition to the general sexual assault accusations, Harvey made headlines this week after it was reported that his company, The Weinstein Company, allowed him to sexually harass women as long as he paid all the money owed if he got sued. The controversial reports surrounding the film producer have caused a lot of backlash on social media with stars speaking out against him and there have been reports that he has recently checked into rehab for his issues. HollywoodLifers, do you think Harvey should lose his fortune?
Republicans in Congress have Hillary Clinton in their sights, and its all going to be different this time. What America obviously needs is a prosecutor with unlimited resources and subpoena power to get to the bottom of these matters, because . well because Hillary Damn Clinton, thats why! You may have noticed that Hillary Clinton is not actually the president, a fact that has left Republicans who were looking forward to four or eight years of rip-roaring investigations rather bereft. Maybe theyll get to lock her up after all. The answer is a bit complicated, but first lets quickly address the Republicans complaint. However, every bit of the previous sentence is false, other than that there is a person named "Hillary Clinton," a thing called "uranium," a place called "Russia," and an organization called the "Clinton Foundation." The sale of that company was approved in 2013 by a board that includes representatives of nine different federal agencies; though the State Department is one of the nine, Clinton had no personal role in the decision. The donations to the Clinton Foundation that supposedly were payback actually occurred in 2007, before she became secretary of state, from a man who no longer had any stake in the company by the time the sale took place (you can read more here or here). As for the Russian dossier, it was opposition research of the kind undertaken by candidates for every significant office in America. It contained some salacious rumors about Donald Trump, but the Clinton campaign didnt even make them public. In short, this isnt the kind of thing you appoint a special counsel to investigate. When this was brought up by far-right Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), whom retired Speaker of the House John Boehner recently referred to as a "legislative terrorist," at a Judiciary Committee hearing this week, even Attorney General Jeff Sessions seemed uninterested. If theres one thing Republicans know, its how to work a Clinton scandal. You start with wild charges, whether there are any facts behind them or not, then start to hold hearings, create a rising din in the conservative media, and before you know it, youve woven a scandal out of nothing. Of course, you have to pretend that you care very deeply about consular security or proper email management or whatever the ostensible topic of the scandal is, but they can manage that without too much trouble. This formula has to be understood as serving multiple goals. In the short run, it merely makes trouble for Democrats, putting them on the defensive and dominating the news. Now that Trump is president, it could also help distract attention from the administrations scandals. In the longer run, the investigation can act as a lever, producing something more consequential than whatever it set out to investigate. Republicans dont have to know what theyre fishing for at the outset; its enough to hope that there might be something waiting to be uncovered. The Benghazi investigation revealed the existence of Clintons private email server, so who knows what an investigation into the uranium company might produce? Investigating Hillary Clinton promises a return to a simpler time, when Republicans felt a sense of righteousness and purpose, and didnt have to worry about crafting complicated legislation that required difficult tradeoffs. The trouble with the project, however, to return to where we started, is that Hillary Clinton is not the president and is never going to be the president. There isnt anything to be gained by rooting around like pigs hoping to unearth a truffle of scandal buried somewhere in the woods of Chappaqua. All it does is make them look like sore winners. Which of course is exactly what they are. Nothing in the last year has turned out the way they thought it would, and they have no idea what to do about it. A good Clinton scandal would make everything make sense again. But they probably wont get it, so theyll just have to content themselves with defending the toddler in the Oval Office and worrying about which of their candidates are going to turn out to have a thing for teenage girls.
Google banned my channel with 80,0 people on it so join my Newsletter so they can’t stop us! A young man named Gio Rios just proved the FBI is lying scum about the Las Vegas shooting! Everything we’ve been told by the FBI and Fake News on TV is now officially a fraud! Listen to his riveting testimony as he talks about the multiple shooters he saw and the lies the FBI told about it all! Tell Trump to start firing people until the truth comes out! The FBI must be investigated for fraud and coverup! We cannot allow the FBI and the Fake News to get away with this any longer. Spread this patriot’s testimony to every person you know. Tell them the FBI are liars and our news is fake! Tweet to Trump @potus and @realdonaldtrump and tell him God told us in his Word to tell the truth! Tell him we all know the FBI is lying over Las Vegas! Tell him to do a press conference and stop the lies! We are not going to take the lies anymore! And Ye Shall Know the Truth, and the Truth Shall Make You Free John 8:32 How To Easily Kill All Indoor Odor, Mold, And Bacteria — Without Lifting A Finger
Defense Secretary James Mattis warned Monday that the US Army needs to stand ready for put into action its various options for attacking North Korea, saying neither you nor I can say what the future holds, and that it’s purely up to President Trump. Mattis presented the preparations to attack North Korea as necessary because of continued provocations by Pyongyang, despite North Korea not having said much of anything in recent weeks, other than being concerned that Trump has declared war during the many, many times he’s talked about destroying North Korea. While Trump has largely been driving the North Korea war hysteria for months on end, he’s been virtually the sole instigator of such talks lately, condemning diplomacy on a near-daily basis,and insisting that  only one thing will work against them, ominously threatening to show us all what that is pretty soon. Repeated threats to totally destroy North Korea have been among his most favored talking points on any subject since the UN General Assembly. Mattis’ talk of keeping the Army ready to carry out that threat only adds to concern that the US could start a massive war at any moment.
Roy Moore and Donald Trump ( grab) The current political alliance between President Trump and Roy Moore isn’t new – their collusion goes back at least to 2011. It was then that the two teamed up to promote the Birther Lie that President Obama was not born in the USA. They served as active and vocal leaders of this racist cause over the five-year period from 2011 to 2016. President Obama’s short form and long form birth certificates were released by the Dept. of Health of the State of Hawaii, in June 2008 and April 2011 respectively. The birth records show that Barack Hussein Obama II was born at 7:24 pm on August 4, 1961, in the Kapiolani Maternity &amp; Gynecological Hospital in Honolulu, to Stanley Ann Dunham Obama and Barack Hussein Obama. In the face of this documentary evidence, many early Birthers gave up the cause. They relentlessly promoted the lie, claiming in public speeches and interviews that they were privy to inside information that these birth certificates were forgeries. Moore, who began his involvement in the cause in 2008, declared to World Net Daily in 2010 that there was substantial evidence that Obama was not born in our country. Trump, who didn’t publicly join the cause until 2011, tweeted on August 6, 2012 that an ‘extremely credible source’ has called my office and told me that Barack Obama’s birth certificate is a fraud. Moore’s substantial evidence and Trump’s extremely credible source never, of course, materialized. Moore combined his birther claims with the Islamophobic lie that Obama was secretly a Muslim, while Trump cleverly used the lie in his Presidential campaigns of 2012 and 2016 to solidify the nationalist, racist, anti-Obama core of his base. The political effectiveness of the Birther Lie can be seen in the results of the NBC poll of September 2016. In the responses by registered Republicans only 28% agreed with the statement that Barack Obama was born in the United States. Another 41% disagreed, and 31% stated that they didn’t know one way or the other. The Birther Lie appears to have sowed doubt about the President being born in the U.S., and thus the legitimacy of his Presidency, among nearly three-quarters of registered Republicans. Trump officially gave up the Birther Lie on Sept. 16, 2016, with Moore doing so 3 months later. When Trump gave up the lie, however, he replaced it with another one – naming his opponent Hillary Clinton as the originator of the whole birther idea, again of course without any evidence. And now, in late 2017, Trump has apparently decided to revive the lie, letting people around him know that he still believes it. The Birther Lie shows us that Trump and Moore are inveterate liars. So why should we believe them when they completely deny the credible testimonies of the more than 21 women who accuse one or the other of these men of sexual molesting them? Once again, these birther buddies would like us to ignore credible evidence and believe more of their big fat lies. Guest author Tony Nugent is a symbologist, an expert in ancient symbols. He taught at Seattle University for fifteen years in the Department of Theology and Religious Studies and is an ordained Presbyterian minister.
The Dallas Cowboys will go back to their previous stance on the national anthem Sunday against the Los Angeles Rams, receiver Dez Bryant said. The team will stand with their hands over their heart for the anthem. There will be no pre-anthem kneel for unity as they did last Monday against the Arizona Cardinals. That show of solidarity was about joining the brethren across the league in responding to the expletive-filled attacks from President Donald Trump against the players who kneeled during the anthem in protest against racism and social injustice. We’re going to stand, we’re going to stand and going to put our hand over our heart and we’re going to do what we did before, Bryant said. You all know what that was, that was just a response to Trump and that’s all that that was. Todays top news by email The local news you need to start your day Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms Owner Jerry Jones said earlier Friday on his radio show that Bryant was absolutely torn about the decision and was getting a lot of pressure to kneel. The compromise of kneeling before the anthem and standing during it was one way of appeasing both sides, per Jones. Asked about the external pressures to protest and being torn on the issue, Byrant passed. Sports Highlights Up Next: Rapoport: Theres newfound optimism in Rams contract talks with Aaron Donald Your video will play in: 5 seconds Rapoport: Theres newfound optimism in Rams contract talks with Aaron Donald NFL Network insider Ian Rapoport reports that the Los Angeles Rams seem to be making progress on a new contract for Los Angeles Rams defensive end Aaron Donald. Play Video | 00:52 Your video will resume shortly. 00:52 Rapoport: Theres newfound optimism in Rams contract talks with Aaron Donald NFL Los Angeles Rams | 00:52 01:34 Patrick Peterson highlights | Preseason Week 3 NFL Arizona Cardinals | 01:34 02:50 How good will Dak and Zeke need to be for Cowboys to make playoffs? NFL Dallas Cowboys | 02:50 05:24 Texans vs. Rams highlights | Preseason Week 3 NFL Los Angeles Rams | 05:24 04:51 Cardinals vs. Cowboys highlights | Preseason Week 3 NFL Arizona Cardinals | 04:51 00:52 Cant-Miss Play: Muffed punt turns into wild scramble and Cardinals TD NFL Arizona Cardinals | 00:52 00:38 Cant-Miss Play: Patrick Peterson jumps in front of receiver for easy pick-six NFL Arizona Cardinals | 00:38 02:04 Sunday Ready: Dak Prescott NFL Dallas Cowboys | 02:04 02:06 What does Fredericks absence mean for Cowboys? NFL Dallas Cowboys | 02:06 01:19 How Elliott, Prescott are affected by o-line injuries DraftKings NFL | 01:19 Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration Time 0:00 Loaded: 0% Progress: 0% Stream TypeLIVE Remaining Time -0:00 Playback Rate 1 Chapters Chapters descriptions off, selected Descriptions subtitles off, selected Subtitles captions settings, opens captions settings dialog captions off, selected Captions Audio Track This is a modal window. No compatible source was found for this media. Advertisement X I’m going to leave that all in the past, Bryant said.
New York Police Officer Miosotis Familia was brutally gunned down in cold blood by Alexander Bonds early Monday morning in an unprovoked attack. Officer Miosotis Familia was rushed to the hospital where she was pronounced dead. According to Infowars Bonds encouraged people to vote for Hillary Clinton. Would you look at that we have another cop killer, and the cop killer is a Hillary Clinton supporter. Wednesday’s identified assassin of a New York Police Department (NYPD) officer was a Hillary Clinton supporter, according to the killer’s Facebook page. So there you have it America this cop killer was another radicalized American done in by Obamas war a cops which Hillary Clinton supported as well. This once again shows the danger that Obamas and Hillarys rhetoric have given cops nationwide, as the last Presidency of Obama in the last two years of his administration made the environment for LEOs a very dangerous one as both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama stated over and over again that police officers target blacks. Go figure though we have a cop killer again who is not only a Hillary advocate but an all out Democrat.
In a bizarre turn of events, NBC News reports Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock wired $100,0 to the Philippines one week before Sunday’s mass murder. Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock wired $100,0 to an account in his live-in girlfriend’s home country of the Philippines in the week before he unleashed the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history, according to multiple senior law enforcement officials. But while officials have confirmed that Marilou Danley was in the Philippines on Sunday when Paddock opened fire on a crowd attending a country music festival on the Vegas Strip, it was not known whether the money was for her, her family, or another purpose. Danley, 62, who had traveled to Hong Kong on Sept. 25, could fill in some of the blanks when she returns to the U.S. on Wednesday, the officials said. As Americans begin to pick up the pieces from Sunday’s mass shooting in Las Vegas, new details are emerging in connection to Stephen Paddock’s financial activities. A new report by ABC News says over 200 reports of suspicious activities were made to authorities. ABC News reports: As authorities pick apart the life of Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock, they have come across one major thread of suspicious behavior: how he handled his money. Paddock’s recent financial transactions have become a key focus for investigators looking to learn more about the Nevada man and why he launched the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. […] In the last three years alone, more than 200 reports about Paddock’s activities, particularly large transactions at casinos, have been filed with law enforcement authorities, ABC News was told.
We believe this is a great opportunity to contact people you have not heard from lately and surprise them with your text messages. Now is your time to say all that you want by sending free SMS to your friends and relatives in Europe. Check out the countries available in our list and have fun by sending free SMS to your loved ones for Free!
Fox News panel with Katie Pavlich and Adrienne Elrod (Photo: Screen capture) A Fox News host and panelist alleged that it was Hillary Clinton that colluded with Russia and thus should be taken to jail — not President Donald Trump. While Russian bots sowed division among Democratic voters, attacked people of color, attacked Hillary Clinton, worked to suppress voters of color then spread fake voter fraud claims, Fox News thinks this was a campaign in favor of Clinton’s 2016 bid. Well, if it’s really a big threat and we want to stop them from meddling in our elections, why is it that during a three-year time span the Obama administration really didn’t do much to stop this from happening, asked Town Hall editor Katie Pavlich. She referred to the 2012 election debate in which Mitt Romney cautioned that Russia was the greatest American foe over radical ISIS or Taliban extremists. However, 2016 was the first election Russia is known to have infiltrated. Pavlich and the host then turned to wonder why 300 elected officials didn’t show up for the classified briefing held at the FBI involving the Gang of 8. The 300 members likely didn’t have a high enough clearance level to view the classified documents. The Gang of 8 all have the proper security clearance level to have viewed the documents. The Fox host asked former Clinton staffer Adrienne Elrod if the entire Russia scandal could have been avoided if former President Barack Obama had stopped Russia before they even started. Elrod explained that there was a lot of work going on behind the scenes. Given the security level, it’s likely much of the information available at the time could not be made public. She noted she wished Obama had acted prior to the election but asked what Trump is doing today to stop Russia from acting in the 2018 election. The Fox host along with Pavlich went on to claim that Clinton was colluding with Russia because her campaign partially paid the law firm that bought the opposition research dossier from Christopher Steele. Another portion of the dossier was paid for by Republicans hoping to discredit Trump prior to the general election. For that reason, Fox News believes Clinton colluded with Russia more than Trump did. Fox News hosts have also alleged that Clinton is behind the meeting with the Russian lawyer at Trump Tower.
The NFL Players Association is making an attempt to open up the lines of communication between the camps of Richie Incognito and Jonathan Martin. NFL Medias Albert Breer reported that the NFLPA contacted the agents of Incognito and Martin on Wednesday morning to request a meeting, according to a source apprised of the plan. The proposal calls for the meeting to occur in Florida with union chief DeMaurice Smith present. Incognito was suspended indefinitely by the Miami Dolphins after the team was presented with evidence that Incognito sent abusive and racially insensitive messages to Martin via text message and voice mail. The suspension was handed down six days after Martin abruptly left the team after an incident at the Dolphins dining facility. NFL Medias Jeff Darlington reported last week that Martin sought treatment at a South Florida hospital immediately after leaving the team. He left the hospital a short time later and now is at home in California with his parents. A local news affiliate tracked down Incognito on Tuesday as he left a doctors appointment in Fort Lauderdale. " You know what, Im just trying to weather the storm right now," Incognito told WSVN-TV. "

The tropical storm that hit the southern Philippines on Friday and Saturday has left at least 200 people dead and many homeless. The island of Mindanao was the worst hit. The local administration there has been criticised for not doing enough to help. A survivor from Tubod town, where an entire neighbourhood was destroyed, told Al Jazeera that they have ‘never experienced a flood like it. Al Jazeera’s Rob McBride reports from Tubod Town, Southern Philippines.
CHAPPAQUA, N.Y. -- Hillary Clinton will be telling her side of the story. Clinton, a Chappaqua resident, is set to write "What Happened," her recounting of her loss to Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election. The book will be published on Sept. 12 by Simon and Schuster. In the past, for reasons I try to explain, I’ve often felt I had to be careful in public, like I was up on a wire without a net. Now I’m letting my guard down," Clinton, who previously served as Senator and Secretary of State, said. The book will discuss what it was like to face Trump, Russian interference and the experience Clinton had of being the first woman nominated for president by a major party. Simon and Schuster is calling it "her most personal memoir yet." Clinton had previously written the memoirs "Living History," and "Hard Choices." In November, Clinton is set to speak at the Business Council of Westchesters annual dinne r, where she will receive the Westchester Global Leadership Laureate Award Click here to sign up for Daily Voices free daily emails and news alerts.
While officially the White House is condemning the ISIS suicide attacks in Tehran today, in keeping with their policy of being against ISIS, President Trump’s own statement on the matter appeared less than wholly sympathetic, attributing the attacks to Iran  falling victim to the evil they promote. President Trump has made clear since the campaign that he does not like Iran, and spent much of his recent trip to the Middle East pushing hostility toward Iran, as well as portraying Iran as being to blame for most of the terrorism in the region. That ISIS is the world’s biggest terrorist organization, and that Iran has been heavily supporting both Iraq and Syria in fighting ISIS, doesn’t fit into Trump’s narrative, and the fact that ISIS just launched terrorist attacks in Tehran is particularly unwelcome to the US agenda of trying to spin everything wrong in the Middle East as being Iran’s fault. President Trump’s answer to this, then, is to remind everyone that Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism, an official designation by the US government which means effectively nothing, and only currently applies to three countries that the US doesn’t like, none of whom has anything to do with ISIS, al-Qaeda, or other major international terrorist groups.
Today’s breaking story of the DOJ surveilling the communications of POTUS Trump’s longtime personal attorney is just now filtering through news watchers across the country. Remember, the Cohen surveillance was referred to by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, (and signed off by the DOJ’s #2 Rod Rosenstein who was the one who originally pushed for President Trump to fire then FBI Director James Comey) meaning it was effectively Mueller’s operation. And what THAT means is Robert Mueller was wiretapping the Trump White House. Early reports indicate at least one direct phone call between President Trump and Cohen was . In a normal world, as soon as the President of the United States was on the line, the DOJ would have initiated an all stop on surveillance. That has been long-standing (albeit unofficial) protocol for decades. That didn’t happen which would indicate capturing the President’s communications to Cohen was the primary purpose of the Mueller-originating surveillance all along. Consider this that the Department of Justice is charged with upholding the powers of the Constitution but in this case (and likely many-many others) it has shredded those same Constitutional protections in order to bring down a duly-elected President of the United States. When will enough Americans finally stand up and say ENOUGH? This is no longer merely about President Trump. It isn’t about Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative. This is about America, our personal liberties, and the now-fractured foundation that was the Constitution. For if the government can go after a sitting president via such means it can come after any of us at any time.
A big pro-Trump rally called The Mother of All Rallies (or MOAR for short) is taking place today in Washington, D.C. These are photos from the event, to give you an idea of what is happening today. The MOAR rally began its opening ceremonies at the north end of the Mall, near the Washington monument, at 11 a.m. Eastern, according to their website. Keynote speakers will include author Hamody Jasim, Marco Gutierrez founder of Latinos for Trump, and congressional candidate for California Omar Navarro. The band Madison Rising is the featured performer. Panel discussions on a number of hot topics are also planned and much will be happening throughout the day and evening. Peter Boykin, president of Gays for Trump and a speaker at the rally, told the Washington Post that some topics discussed at the event will be more controversial, including transgender men and women in the military, Sharia law, and the dreamers immigration program. According to the event’s website, the rally is focused on freedom, putting America first, and uniting everyone under the American flag: …No confederate flags, communist flags, or foreign flags allowed. This is not a Democrat or Republican rally. We condemn racists of all colors and supremacy of all colors. Our patriots are of all colors and we are uniting under our constitutional rights. We are Americans and our color shouldn’t matter. The event’s Facebook page mentions that the event is in support of American values, American culture, American traditions, and of course President Donald Trump. About 2,0 people RSVP’d for the event on Facebook, and an additional 6,200 indicated that they were interested in the event. The organizers originally wanted one million people at the event. But both Jason Webber, an organizer of the Juggalo rally, and Peter Boykin, a speaker at the MOAR rally, told The Washington Post that their events don’t plan to interact with each other and they don’t expect any brawls. Supporters have also been posting on Twitter and other social media sites about the event. Some counter protesters showed up too: The website for the event took pains to set itself up as different from the Charlottesville rally, saying that they wanted American flags and Confederate flags would not be allowed.
Susan Montgomery / Shutterstock.com In many ways, money orders are safer than personal checks and cash. There’s no risk of a bounced check and associated fees when paying with a money order because the money order is prepaid in cash. In order to cash a money order, the recipient must appear in person and show identification. And, while cash can be lost, money orders come with a tracking number, so money orders can be replaced. Since Rite Aid has many locations, and its stores are often open 24/7, you can save yourself a trip to the bank and just buy a money order next time you pick something up at Rite Aid. In This Article What Are the Fees, Limits, and Accepted Payment Types? How Do I Purchase a Money Order at Rite Aid? Other Rite Aid Services Similar Stores That Sell and Cash Money Orders Purchasing a Money Order at Rite Aid Does Rite Aid have MoneyGram? Rite Aid sells money orders through Western Union. Money orders are available during store hours so that means Rite Aid Western Union hours are the same as store hours. You can find the nearest store and their hours using the Rite Aid store locator. Select search by agent, and filter your search for Rite Aid and money orders. What Are the Fees, Limits, and Accepted Payment Types? Rite Aid only accepts cash payment for money orders; you cannot pay with a debit card or credit card. While on the call with Rite Aid, we also confirmed that money orders are available for purchase during regular store hours. Remember, you can only buy a money order with cash. Rite Aid doesn’t cash money orders, even money orders sold at Rite Aid. Other Rite Aid Services Rite Aid also has a number of other services you may want to take advantage of while you’re there buying a money order. Though not all vaccines are available in all states. Select locations have RediClinics, which treat common conditions like strep throat, ear infections, UTIs, pink eye, and others. Special discounts for seniors through the wellness65+ program A free quit-for-you program to help people stop smoking Photo Printing Printable in-store coupons Can print photos onto special gift items including mugs, metal wall art, tote bags, and canvas Print from smartphone at the photo kiosk in store Similar Stores to Rite Aid That Sell and Cash Money Orders If you don’t have a Rite Aid near where you live or work but you still need to purchase a money order, there are plenty of other options. For a list of all the places to buy money orders, including stores similar to Rite Aid, convenience stores and grocery stores see our article Where Can I Get a Money Order. If you’re looking for a place to cash a money order, you have fewer options. Your best bet is to deposit the money order into your own bank account, wait for it to clear, and then withdraw the funds. If you want to cash a money order, again, your own bank is the best option. But, there are some other places to cash a money order. See the complete list in our article, Where Can I Cash a Money Order? In Summary For people who want to pay bills, purchase goods, or simply want to send guaranteed funds without the risk associated with exchanging cash, money orders are a trusted method of payment. Rite Aid money orders are convenient because of the low fees, numerous locations, and long hours. There are many similar convenience and pharmacy stores that also sell money orders.
About Hillary Clintons "What Happened" Book is an upcoming memoir written by Hillary Clinton discussing the contentious 2016 United States presidential election. The book title was widely mocked on Twitter following its announcement in late July 2017. On July 27th, 2017, Hillary Clinton unveiled the title of her upcoming book What Happened, a memoir discussing experiences during her 2016 presidential run against Donald Trump (shown below). [ 1] Book Cover Spread That day, Twitter user @Kno tweeted a photoshopped version of the book cover edited to read "What in the Entire Fuck Happened?" ( Meanwhile, Twitter user @ColeLedford11 posted a photoshopped picture of the inside of a book with a passage about Clinton getting "3 million more votes than Trump even with his collusion with the Russian government" (shown below, right). I got 3 million more votes than Trump even with his collusion with the Russian government" Also on July 27th, several Twitter users posted joke names for the book along with the hashtag "#BetterNamesForHillarysBook" [2] (shown below). Meanwhile, The Daily Dot [3] published an article about the online reaction to the book titled "Hillary Clinton’s new book title is getting laughed off of Twitter."
Please sign in with your WRAL.com account to comment on this story. You also will need a Facebook account to comment. Oldest First I think WRAL should be ashamed! How can you just assume this person is a man? What if that is not the pronoun they choose for themselves and here you are all over your story just, "Man", "his", "he". I mean what youve basically done is committed a terroristic act on trans-non-binary people everywhere. You should post a public apology because Im literally autistic and this makes me want to cry. I cannot believe how insensitive this story is!If this were California, youd be in jail right now! Just when I have a sliver of faith in humanity, I go and read WRAL story comments. So Democrats want their daughters to be okay with going to the restroom with this guy? Where does the story say anything about anyone using a female restroom? So.is it possible for them to assault each other and never trigger an "assault on a female" charge that often coincides with domestic disputes?
I was listening to a Christian radio show awhile back before I was scheduled to go on, and one of the guests before me was talking about the organization he formed to fight back against powerful liberals in the United States and the ideologies they are spending billions of dollars to advance. Similarly, I was watching a video the other day in which the Christian missionary called Islam the greatest threat to Christianity today. So many American Christians, evangelicals in particular, are paralyzed by fear. We talk about how political liberalism or Islam are threats to Christianity and make compelling cases for why our brothers and sisters in Christ should devote time, money and other resources to protect Christianity against these threats. Christianity is not threatened by modern political liberalism, any strand of Islam (violent or non-violent) or any other worldview on the entire planet. The idea that something could be a threat to Christianity implies that, somehow, Christianity could be put on a sort of endangered religions list, or that Christians could become extinct altogether. This is a lie fueled by hearts that have made an idol of power and influence. Christianity, defined by the gospel of Jesus Christ and the implications of that gospel, offers the world what other worldviews cannot. So, Christians who want the best for their communities and the world are right to work for Christianity’s spread around the world. But, particularly among conservative evangelicals in 21st-century America, there seems to be a feeling that Christianity is at risk of extinction. Christianity’s Dominance Is Threatened Is Christianity at risk of losing its powerful influence over America? Is Christianity at risk of becoming less and less socially acceptable in America and bordering on being considered hate? For some, these two truths are terrifying and are indicative of the impending demise of Christianity. It is right to be concerned for the millions of Christians around the world who are being threatened. This is a reality about which we should be praying regularly. But threatened Christians do not make a threatened Christianity. Christianity is dependent on the finished work of Christ. This means nothing is a threat to Christianity. Plenty of forces—worldviews, political ideologies and more—threaten Christianity’s dominance in America. For some, Christianity’s dominance in America and the Western world is what legitimizes it. It is these people who believe Christianity is threatened. Praise God that the Christian faith is not dependent on its 21st-century cultural dominance, but by the dominion of its eternal, glorious God. When you claim that ISIS or the Democrats or whomever else is threatening Christianity, you spit in the face of the God who conquered sin and death because you’re afraid he can’t conquer competing worldviews. Christianity doesn’t have to be the most popular worldview in America to be the right one. No terrorist attack, peaceful mosque or Supreme Court justice can knock down the house whose cornerstone is Christ. But it will demolish the house whose cornerstone is cultural favor. Romans 8:35 says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? Or liberals, or ISIS, or Supreme Court Justices, or car bombs? The foundation of our faith is seated on the throne because his work is finished.
| Photo Credit: US President Donald Trump on Thursday dismissed an upcoming book on his campaign and administration as "full of lies" and invented sources, after unsuccessfully attempting to block its release. I authorised Zero access to White House (actually turned him down many times) for author of phony book! Full of lies, misrepresentations and sources that dont exist, Mr. Trump tweeted in reference to Michael Wolffs Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House. Look at this guys past and watch what happens to him and Sloppy Steve! It was unclear to whom Mr. Trump was referring, with possibilities including Steve Bannon, his former chief strategist, and Steve Rubin, the president of Henry Holt and Company, which is publishing Wolffs book. The book quotes key Mr. Trump aides, including Mr. Bannon, expressing serious doubt about his fitness for office. Mr. Trump has been enraged by the betrayal by Mr. Bannon — a man who engineered the New York real estate moguls link to the nationalist far right and helped create a pro-Trump media ecosystem. After Mr. Trump instructed his lawyers to try to block the release of the book, the publishers responded by moving the release date up by four days to Friday.
Hotel Guard Opens Up Jesus Campos, the Mandalay Bay security guard who alerted police to the Las Vegas shooter, is speaking out for the first time about the violent encounter that left him with gunshot wounds. detailing the harrowing moments leading up to him discovering Stephen Paddock on the 32nd floor, just as he was starting to open fire on the crowd of concertgoers below. He thinks a loud slamming door during his routine check of the floor is what tipped off his location to Paddock, who then started shooting into the hallway -- and hit Campos in the leg. Miraculously, Campos says he was still able to somehow get on his radio and tell his team shots had been fired. You can hear his full story on Wednesdays episode of Ellen.
Modern (American) politics is essentially a game in which politicians say and do whatever they possibly can to persuade people that they are an ideal leader deserving of a vote. Specifically, I’ve heard many people expressing the belief that Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders are refreshingly different from typical political candidates. Don’t think for a second that they’re not. But people are viewing them as utterly genuine. I actually believe he sincerely cares about the things he wants to change, and so he exudes an earnestness while speaking that captivates many people, especially people in my generation. And whereas Bernie is trying to ride a wave of hope into the White House, Trump is trying to ride a wave of fear and anger. The planet is filled with nuclear warheads; environmental crises are ; the largest refugee crisis since World War II is taking place. Our critical thinking skills dip as we focus solely on protecting ourselves. This leaves many credulous viewers with one obvious response: to be an angry, aggressive, Trump-supporting American who views the rest of the world with suspicion and aggression! He presents himself as the most dominant and strongest-willed candidate — the only candidate capable of returning the US to its rightful position as Imminent, Dominant Global Superpower. Instinctively aggressive people respond favorably to Trump’s call for a return to an Ultra-Dominant America. Clearly, this arrangement was beneficial in our primal past, or we would not have evolved this way. In Trump’s story, America has been unambiguously losing in recent memory; America is becoming a perma-loser before our eyes, and we’re just getting used to it. Wiki Commons Of course, with Trump as president, America is going to start winning again in all regards. Donald Trump has found himself in this situation on a number of occasions. You can’t stay booing and upset and angry when somebody makes you uncontrollably laugh. By contrast, when Trump attacked Bush, Bush looked directly at Trump with an expression of distress and disconcertedness, playing perfectly into Trump’s game. In social dynamics, this is referred to as frame control. Combine this with his fear-mongering, anger-mongering, and presenting himself as the One Great Strong Solution to Loser America, and you’ve got a potent combination of factors coming together to make Donald Trump appear to be an untouchable, iron-willed leader in comparison to his opponents. Essentially, this means that he puts them in positions where it doesn’t matter what they say or how they react to him — however they respond, he will come out looking better and they will come out looking worse. There’s a reason large companies pour millions of dollars into ad campaigns with catchy taglines and jingles: through sheer repetition, certain associations become embedded in the mind, if only on an unconscious level. There is also a cognitive bias known as the Asch effect that is relevant here. Trump understands this and takes advantage of it at every turn. He also knows that there are certain methods of manipulating people’s emotions to get them to do what you want. Most all of the items on this list — from fear-/anger-mongering and deflection via humor to repetition, social proof, and appeal to authority — are effective methods of making people feel very confident about a position, despite the fact that they haven’t considered any statistical evidence or rational arguments. As I said before, Donald Trump isn’t the only one playing the manipulation game. Other candidates also understand that people are emotional creatures, and any candidate who wants to have a chance of winning must use some or all of these tactics. If he wins the race, it will be because he effectively encouraged and harnessed the fear, anger, and emotion-driven decision-making of a large portion of the American public. I would prefer not to find out if Trump’s hard-ass, violence-friendly approach to political problems is as dangerous for planet Earth as I think it is. Some argue that this is essentially what happened pre-World War II.
During the 1950s Red Scare, innocent Americans were smeared and sometimes blacklisted for being supposed Communists. Real subversives existed, including Alger Hiss, a traitor and Soviet spy whom liberals – to their misfortune – made into a poster boy of McCarthyism. But the actual number of Communists was tiny and utterly not commensurate with the fervent public witch hunt led by right-wingers. Today’s group hysteria comes from the left, as a fanatic political mob sees racists behind every door. Their paranoia is not harmless, as they use the racist bogeyman to intimidate political adversaries – and sometimes erstwhile friends – while seeking to silence political dialogue. As with the Red Scare, there’s some reason for vigilance regarding actual racists, as Charlottesville reminded us. But as with the hunt for Communists under every bed, the scare tactics far outweigh the actual problem. The New McCarthyism revealed its full absurdity this week via the ACLU’s Twitter stream, which had the temerity to post a picture of an adorable young toddler holding an American flag and a doll with the tag line This is the future that ACLU members want. Immediately the politically correct rage mob commenced a digital protest led by credentialed injustice professionals such as Professor Nyasha Junior of Temple University who posted, A white kid with a flag! In much of America outside of your faculty lounge, young American children waving Old Glory warms the heart and makes us smile rather than prompt thoughts of white supremacy lurking under the sheets. Did the ACLU, a group once known for taking brave and unpopular stands, hold its ground or, better yet, simply ignore the online rabble? This lovely young kid holding a flag equals white supremacy? This is not merely social-media silliness. It’s not even lunacy, although it certainly seems insane. This is a weapon used cynically and viciously -- little girls are apparently acceptable collateral damage -- by the left to isolate and demonize opponents, and particularly President Trump and his supporters. As MSNBC’s Donny Deutsch said of Trump: He is a racist -- can we just say it once and for all? If I had a dollar for every time the mainstream media accused Trump and his voters of racism, I’d be about as rich as the recent Powerball winner. As a Hispanic, I believe that people of color, for far too long, have been taken for granted by the Democratic Party. I also believe that the Trump movement represents real policy solutions for the woes of poverty and violence that burden too many African-American and Latino citizens. But the digital rage mob holds people like me in particular contempt, as I saw during the 2016 campaign in the form of a constant stream of online slurs. Yes, today’s liberals are quick to use racism’s terms when it suits their purposes, calling me a coconut (brown on the outside, white on the inside) and Tio Tomas (Uncle Tom in Spanish). One of the main reasons America has succeeded as a country lies is our rejection of the tribalism that afflicts and paralyzes so much of the world. America is an idea, and one open to all who embrace it, regardless of skin color, heritage, or religion. To be sure, America must own the racist sins of our history. Thankfully, such systemic racism is just that, history – as evidenced by electing twice to our highest office an African-American man with a decidedly un-European name. Instead of allowing a new scourge, this Racist Scare, to corrode our discourse, we must embrace our common American identity, rooted in our best traditions and elucidated in our founding documents. We should be difficult to offend and slow to accuse others of the disease of prejudice. As the incumbent president of the United States explained in his inaugural address seven months ago: When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for bigotry. Steve Cortes, a contributor to RealClearPolitics and Fox News, is the national spokesman for the Hispanic 100, an organization that promotes Latino leadership by advancing free enterprise principles. Secret Message from God Found in Human DNA (See What It Says)
Hillary Clinton Before Democrats burn James Comey in effigy, they should think about how the FBI director came to have an outsized influence in the election in the first place. It’s not something Comey sought or welcomed. A law enforcement official who prizes his reputation, he didn’t relish becoming a hate figure for half the country or more. No, the only reason that Comey figures in the election at all is that Democrats knowingly nominated someone under FBI investigation. Once upon a time — namely any presidential election prior to this one — this enormous political and legal vulnerability would have disqualified a candidate. Not this year, and not in the case of Hillary Clinton. The country has clearly lowered its standards in this election, and Donald Trump’s madcap candidacy provides evidence of that almost every day. But Hillary’s nomination was itself an offense against American political norms and an incredibly reckless act. And the Democrats were supposed to be the party acting rationally. Clinton effectively locked up the nomination in June and wasn’t cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the FBI until July. Would they have substituted in a 74-year-old socialist who had lost the nomination battle, or someone else who hadn’t even run? Any of these circumstances would have been unprecedented, but Democrats risked it. They did it, in part, because they could never bring themselves to fully acknowledge the seriousness of the email scandal and, relatedly, the ethical miasma around the Clinton Foundation. They considered it all another desperate trick of the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy. Clinton henchman David Brock demanded that the New York Times retract its initial report of Clinton’s exclusive use of a private email account in March 2015. A parade of Democratic operatives pooh-poohed the whole thing, from Clinton spokesman Karen Finney (a politically motivated series of attacks) to James Carville (not going to amount to a hill of beans) to Howard Dean (hooey). When they first got on a debate stage together last October, Bernie Sanders, the only man who had a chance to stop Clinton, pleased the crowd with a ringing denunciation of interest in her emails. Democrats bought the just-so stories offered up by the Clinton campaign. The FBI investigation was just a security review. The FBI wasn’t investigating Hillary, but only her server. Anything to deflect from the seriousness of the matter. While Democrats willfully looked the other way, they put Comey in an impossible position. An indictment would change the course of American history. But he also put on the record the recklessness of Clinton’s practices as secretary of state in an attempt to create public accountability. Comey’s conduct is open to criticism, but there’s no way to please everyone when handling a case with such high political stakes. His notification to Congress last weekend is another case in point. All that can be said is that if Democrats didn’t want the FBI to have any part in the election, they could’ve considered that before nominating Clinton. Trump may be a deeply flawed candidate, but he caught a wave of popular fervor; Hillary, with her astonishing vulnerabilities, is a production of the Democratic elites who did everything to get her over the finish line. The email scandal and Clinton Foundation will dog Hillary until Election Day and, should she win, into her presidency. For this, she has no one to blame but herself — and her irresponsible enablers.
Former Dawson’s Creek star James Van Der Beek is joining Terry Crews in admitting he has experienced sexual harassment as a man in Hollywood. Van Der Beek added his voice to the chorus of men and women condemning disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, in the wake of numerous sexual misconduct allegations. What Weinstein is being accused of is criminal. What he’s admitted to is unacceptable — in any industry. I applaud everybody speaking out, Van Der Beek wrote on Twitter before revealing his own experience with sexual harassment. I’ve had my ass grabbed by older, powerful men, I’ve had them corner me in inappropriate sexual conversations when I was much younger, he wrote. I understand the unwarranted shame, powerlessness &amp; inability to blow the whistle. There’s a power dynamic that feels impossible to overcome. This week, in the wake of the Weinstein scandal, Crews also revealed via Twitter that he was groped in the past by an unnamed Hollywood executive. This whole thing with Harvey Weinstein is giving me PTSD, Crews wrote before explaining he was targeted last year by a high-level Hollywood executive who groped my privates. I understand and empathize with those who have remained silent. But Harvey Weinstein is not the only perpetrator, Crews wrote. Hollywood is not the only business [where] this happens, and to the casualties of this behavior — you are not alone. Hopefully, me coming forward with my story will deter a predator and encourage someone who feels hopeless. Weinstein has been accused of sexual misconduct by numerous women, including Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie, Ashley Judd, Rosanna Arquette, Cara Delevingne, and more. In a statement to The New Yorker, which detailed numerous allegations — including claims made by actress and filmmaker Asia Argento that Weinstein raped her by forcibly performing oral sex on her — the producer unequivocally denied allegations of non-consensual sex. The statement, released by his representative, continued, Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances. Mr. Weinstein obviously can’t speak to anonymous allegations, but with respect to any women who have made allegations on the record, Mr. Weinstein believes that all of these relationships were consensual. Mr. Weinstein has begun counseling, has listened to the community and is pursuing a better path. Mr. Weinstein is hoping that, if he makes enough progress, he will be given a second chance.
In recent months, late-night talk show host Jimmy Kimmel has taken to scaremongering his audience with well-worn Democratic Party talking points regarding health care insurance policy. Between yuks, he occasionally accuses Republicans of being would-be baby killers, which is treated as an important political development because, well, Jimmy Kimmel is famous. This week, the comedian was back to explain why the new Graham-Cassidy Republican "repeal" bill is bad news. There were only two things wrong with his monologue: Almost everything he said was either completely untrue or highly misleading, and his simplistic emotional appeal was completely disconnected from the real world. The comedians interest in policy was sparked by the harrowing experience of having a newborn son who suffered from a rare health condition. If your baby is going to die and it doesnt have to, it shouldnt matter how much money you make," said an emotional Kimmel in May. "I think thats something that, whether youre a Republican or a Democrat or something else, we all agree on that, right?" As far as I know, there isnt a single politician in America who has ever supported allowing babies to die because they are born with birth defects, even if the parents cant pay. Not pre-Obamacare, and not post-Obamacare. In any event, after Kimmels May rant, Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy showed up on his show to explain his position. Kimmel claims that the new bill doesnt meet this threshold. " He went on to say, "And by the way, before you post a nasty Facebook message saying Im politicizing my sons health problems, I want you to know: I am politicizing my sons health problems." Fact, it will kick about 30 million Americans off insurance." Not a single person would be "kicked off" his or her insurance. Rather, the Congressional Budget Office review of the AHCA found that of the 24 million Americans who would no longer have health insurance after an Obamacare repeal, 14 million would choose not to buy insurance in 2018 in the absence of a penalty. And if Obamacare were not repealed, the CBO projects another 6 million people would voluntarily leave the Obamacare markets. Now, if you dont believe Americans should be afforded the choice to leave or not buy insurance, just say that. Moreover, if Kimmel supports the individual mandate, Graham-Cassidy allows California to institute it -- as I am sure it would. If the bill passes, individual states can let insurance companies charge more if you have a pre-existing condition." States would be allowed to apply for waivers to change what qualifies as an essential health benefit as long as they still preserve "adequate and affordable health insurance coverage" for people with pre-existing conditions. You may prefer price fixing to allowing states flexibility to try and fix these problems, but Graham-Cassidy does not break the "Jimmy Kimmel Test." Kimmel might not be aware that there is no plan in place that has government cutting checks after every surgery. Kimmel then implored his audience to call Cassidy to stop the imaginary bill he had just described. Is there no number available for those who are sick of being in exchanges that coerce them to buy plans they dont need that are sold by companies they dont like in fabricated, noncompetitive "markets" with dwindling choices? Anyway, so went a monologue that could have been written by any liberal activist. Which is to say it was all about cheap zero-sum emotionalism. Kimmel doesnt believe Americans deserve the chance to reduce the cost of health care with market-based reforms on the state level, or in giving states any flexibility in catering their plans to their own citizens. Kimmel believes California and New York should spend more per capita and smaller states should suffer. Kimmel doesnt believe that individuals and families should be allowed to contribute to health savings accounts or use them to help pay ever-growing insurance premiums. Kimmel wants average Americans to suffer. COPYRIGHT 2017 CREATORS.COM Stunning Video Will Make Any Atheists Jaw Drop
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks during an event in Scranton, Pennsylvania, August 15, 2016 and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump holds a rally in Roanoke, Virginia, September 24, 2016 in a combination of file photographs. Donald Trump reported raising $100 million for his presidential campaign and the Republican party in September, a number that trails far behind Hillary Clinton’s fundraising haul in the same month. Trump’s campaign sent a statement Saturday announcing its new fundraising record, which will fill the coffers for his presidential bid as well as the joint efforts of the Republican National Committee, and various state GOP parties. The campaign said Trump himself contributed $2 million of that total. In total, the campaign and its affiliated joint fundraising committees finished September with approximately $75 million cash on hand. These numbers show that Donald Trump continues to have incredible broad based support from across America, Steven Mnuchin, Trump’s finance chairman. But Trump’s campaign apparatus is playing a catch-up game compared to Hillary Clinton’s behemoth fundraising efforts, which drew in more than $154 million for her campaign and the Democratic Party in September alone. HFA, along with the campaign’s other joint fundraising committees, began the month of October with a combined $150 million cash on hand. And when it comes to advertising, the numbers in the final stretch of the campaign continue the election-cycle trend of Clinton outspending Trump. Bloomberg reports that Clinton and various super PACs supporting the Democratic nominee have booked ads through election day with buys totaling $78.3 million. The amount is more than twice what Trump and his super PAC backers have scheduled -- $50 million, according to Kantar Media.
The National Hurricane Centre (NHC) said the hurricane is bringing devastating storm surge, extreme winds and heavy rains to extensive parts of Florida. Extremely dangerous hurricane Matthew heading for Florida, the NHC warned last night. The latest map, from the NHC, shows that the eye of the hurricane is travelling along the coast of Florida towards Georgia and the Carolinas. It is not yet known if the hurricane will go back out to sea after passing Florida but before reaching the other states further north. The governors of Florida, Goergia the Carolinas have declared a state of emergency amid fears that the storm could wreak havoc on today. The NHC said that the hurricane is due to track run parallel along the coast of Florida and Georgia all the way to South Carolina. It added that just a small deviation off track could bring the major onshore with terrible consequences. A Hurricane Warning is in effect along the East Coast from Florida to South Carolina. It added: Although strong winds and heavy rain are being experienced, the eye and thus the strongest winds are currently remaining just offshore. Hurricane force winds are very close to the coast of Florida and the outer eyewall of Matthew is touching Cape Canaveral. A wind gust of 107 mph was recently recorded. When a hurricane is forecast to track roughly parallel to a coastline - as Matthew is forecast to go from Florida through South Carolina - it becomes very difficult to estimate the impacts this far in advance, the NHC added. However, this is the point at which uncertainty grows in forecasts. " It is looking increasingly likely that later in the weekend Matthew will turn out to sea, but the timing of this cannot be stated with certainty. " Thus it is unclear how far north along the US coast will see impacts from Matthew." Will Hurricane Matthew hit the Carolinas? A full evacuation has been announced in South Carolina after Hurricane Matthew tore its way through the Caribbean. South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley urged communities along to coast to evacuate at least 100 miles away and fill their cars full of gas before they set off on their journeys. A NHC spokesman said the eye of the hurricane looks "like its going to impact the Carolinas" at the end of the week or over the weekend. North Carolina’s Governor Pat McCrory has declared a state of emergency in 66 counties in central and eastern North Carolina. Parts of North Carolina have been evacuated. I’m hoping this is a false alarm but we can’t gamble - we won’t gamble - with people’s lives. Met Office Will Hurricane Matthew hit Georgia? Large swathes of Georgia have been evacuated and there is a state of emergency in place. But Georgia might be spared if the eye of the hurricane goes back out to sea before reaching the state. Mr Heming warned that the hurricane was approaching the US at an oblique angle which means that "small shifts can make a big difference". Even if the eye of the hurricane does not hit Georgia, there will be strong winds, rain, rip currents and dangerous conditions at sea. Matthew has been downgraded from category four to category three but it remains extremely powerful. Tue, October 4, 2016 At least 108 people have been killed by Hurricane Matthew in Haiti and the Dominican Republic as the United States braces itself for the worst storm in a decade. Tropical Storm Matthew, which has since gained hurricane strength, is seen in an image captured by NASA-NOAAs Suomi NPP satellite.
Paula Jones, Monica Lewinsky, Gennifer Flowers Early this year, Donald Trump made the seemingly audacious suggestion that Hillary Clinton was somehow responsible for Bill Clintons infidelities. In typical Trump fashion, the comment was designed to get attention. Mrs Clinton has been a champion of family issues and womens rights throughout her career, so the idea that she was the enabler of someone Mr Trump has called "the greatest abuser of women in the history of politics," appeared outrageous. And yet, something resonated in Mr Trumps description of Hillary. There was a kernel of truth to his claim and now it is hurting Mrs Clinton with young female voters. Its pretty damning, and for Clintons supporters it must make unpleasant reading. It was grim, and the image of Chelsea steadfastly holding both parents hands as they walked, heads slightly bowed, to the helicopter on their way to that summer holiday in Marthas Vineyard will stick with me as one of the more poignant family portraits ever taken. Dealing with a spouses unfaithfulness is traumatic in private. It must be an even deeper circle of Hell when splashed on the front of every newspaper. What is disconcerting now, however, is Hillarys role in pursuing the women themselves - Gennifer, Paula, Monica, they all, according to both the New York Times and previously published accounts, became the subject of brutal, organised discreditation campaigns. In 1992, Hillary told Esquire magazine that if she had the chance to cross examine Flowers, she would "crucify her." Taking such determined steps to destroy a womans reputation in order to protect her husbands political career smacks of depressingly cynical calculation. The Clintons hired a famous private investigator to dig up the womens pasts with the aim of destroying their reputations. It is not clear from the Times reporting to what degree Mrs Clinton favoured this tough approach. Did she drive it or just give it an accepting nod? Maybe the more relevant point is that she condoned it. Hillary also famously called Ms Lewinsky a "narcissistic loony toon," according to a friends testimony. A staff member who was close to Hillary said she referred to Mr Clintons affairs as "bimbo eruptions". And theres the problem for young women voters. Why should the character or the sexual past of these women be relevant to the truthfulness of their claims? By discrediting the women, the Clintons were spreading the subliminal message that it was somehow their fault more than Bills. What were they trying to prove - that he was led astray by sexual predators? How it all started for Hillary Clinton How it all started for Hillary Clinton Todays sexual mores are very different from the 1980s and 1990s. Younger women who have been through bruising college sexual abuse scandals across America have little tolerance for women who in any way cast blame on the victim. That empathy extends to consensual affairs - they just dont like women shaming other women. Which is exactly what Hillary Clinton was complicit in doing, according to the New York Times, and other previous accounts. Mrs Clintons supporters say this is all old news, and is part of a right-wing attempt to slime her. Many millennial voters werent even born when Monica and Bill were cavorting in the Oval Office. This is their first introduction to this sordid story. However the Clinton campaign tries to spin it, it just doesnt look great for their candidate.
With 11 days left in the presidential election, the FBI’s decision to launch another investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email system for government business threatens to upend an already volatile race. At a minimum, it could have a nominal effect on an electorate that already had doubts about her honesty, and has already started voting. FBI Director James Comey set off the late October furor with a letter to Congress on Friday saying the agency was launching another investigation into Clinton’s personal email server after obtaining additional information in an unrelated case Thursday. The FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation, Comey wrote in the letter. I agreed that the FBI should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to our investigation. Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. He called the inquiry bigger than Watergate. This is definitely going to influence me, said Democrat James Smythers, a warehouse manager from Princeton, North Carolina. A great day in our campaign just got even better. It may not make a big difference, it may not be in the millions, but every vote counts. Even if it doesn’t drive voters to Trump, it could stop any momentum to Clinton. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office. Clinton email scandal + Anthony Weiner = a volcanic news cycle that will serve as an 11 day negative ad worth millions.— Ron Bonjean (@RonBonjean) October 28, 2016 Trump will have to rely on news media coverage to drive much of that message, having made the tactical decision much earlier not to spend as much time as Clinton did raising money – money he now could use to buy ads on the FBI news. EDITORS: END OPTIONAL TRIM And he may have a bit of an uphill battle, given how many voters likely have already made up their minds about Clinton – or have already voted. Yes, but I don’t think it fundamentally alters the race. The truth is this is a story that’s been out there a long time, he said. Most people have reached a conclusion on it one way or the other. EDITORS: END OPTIONAL TRIM Both campaigns now agree Director Comey needs to put forward more information about what prompted this letter to GOP chairmen.— Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) October 28, 2016 Indeed, voters have already seen thousands of Clinton’s emails released by the State Department and thousands of her aides’ emails released, some illegally, by news organizations, conservative groups and the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. I don’t think this will do anything dramatic to the race. The Democratic and Republican parties are offering a choice between a candidate under FBI investigation, and Donald Trump. Gary Johnson, Libertarian candidate for president Another potential mitigating effect: The news comes after millions already have voted. An estimated 17.1 million people had voted as of Thursday, and the surge of early voting is giving Clinton an important boost in swing states. EDITORS: STORY CAN END HERE Nancy Gray, a retired high school counselor from Monterey Bay, Caliornia., for example, said she’d already voted for Clinton by mail and had tuned out politics until election night. Could it move the needle a couple of points? But I don’t think it’s going to be meaningful. I really feel Pennsylvania is comfortably blue. Vera Bergengruen and Lesley Clark contributed to this report.
Muslims pray in the streets of France A 2014 study in France found that one-third of French births were non-white. The was before the mass migrant invasion of Europe supported by French, German, EU and Vatican leaders. Today the numbers have risen dramatically. 73% of children born in Paris are African. The national rate in France of African births is 39% African births will outnumber French births in France in 3 to 5 years. By 2022, African births will outnumber French births in France. This type of multiculturalism will kill the entire country and culture. pic.twitter.com/57IydjhZP7 — /pol/ News Infinity (@polNewsInfinity) October 14, 2017 Sponsored Sponsored
A group of anti-fascists attacked and stabbed a man outside his home in Vermont for not condemning a local white nationalist. On 16 August 2017, the right-wing web site BigLeaguePolitics.com reported that a Vermont man was attacked by an antifa mob — a description the alleged victim said did not come from him. Sam Wormer, the subject of the story, told us that he was met by five men outside his home a night earlier. Two of the five men, he said, attacked him directly while the other three just kinda hung back, but he disputed the story’s premise blaming anti-fascist groups: I honestly dont think antifa had anything to do with this. I personally believe this was a false flag attack perpetrated by the far right to further their own agenda. Big League Politics interviewed Wormer after he posted a picture of himself on his Facebook page with a visible cut to his stomach, which he told us came from a box cutter blade. The caption read: This is social justice apparently. This is what i get for sticking up for someone. Wormer’s attackers have not been identified. He said that even though he was called a Nazi and a fascist, he did not describe them as being anti-fascists, either. He said there is a loosely organized antifa group in the area, which contacted him after the incident trying to figure out what happened [and] who’s responsible, and have been very very supportive. Wormer, who has not sought medical attention but filed a police report after the attack, first attracted media attention when he was interviewed in a Burlington Free Press story about Ryan Roy, a local man who was fired from his job after being identified as one of the participants in a white supremacist march held in Charlottesville, Virginia on 11 August 2017. Roy described himself as a white nationalist and supporter of President Donald Trump to the Free Press. He also said: Obviously I would advocate for racial separation and racial nationalism or repatriation or even a return to — our country was a white country up until the 1965 Hart-Celler Immigration Act. That legislation, which was signed into law by then-President Lyndon B. Johnson on 3 October 1965 and went into effect in June 1968, did away with quotas for immigrants to the U.S. based on their country of origin and instead gave priority to immigrants whose relatives already lived in the country, as well as those with specialized skills.. According to Wormer, he was completely shocked to see Roy in a Vice News report about the rally and did not agree with his beliefs, but still opposed subsequent demands online for him to be fired or lose custody of his child. Taking away somebody’s job and livelihood — I mean, that’s just adding fuel to the fire. I don’t think any good is going to come of this on anybody’s side. He said that he was attacked shortly after he made a separate comment about Roy on Facebook, which read: I believe he’s doing what he truly believes is right, and despite all the anger and hate pointed his way right now he stands by his choices. I respect him for that, and I won’t stand with those people who are trying to have Ryan’s child taken away or have him fired. I can’t, he and his family have done too much for me. Sorry but my allegiance is with Ryan no matter his choice, even if I can’t agree with him. You can hate me for it, but I stand with my decision and if any violence comes his way I will stand with him. I don’t agree with his actions but he has stuck up for me and other marginalized people when nobody else would. Wormer said besides the attack on him, his roommate and his roommate’s mother also received death threats, including a threatening call. Wormer also told us that Roy contacted him after the attack: He and his mother both reached out to me and made sure I was okay and safe, and thanked me for standing up for him. Police in Essex Junction, where Wormer lives, told us they have nothing currently to report on the matter. But Wormer said he would press charges if the people responsible were caught. I don’t want anyone else to get hurt, he said. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Drop 1: Bruno Balanta] Dont let them run you [Verse 2: Olly Simmons] Theyre gonna take it all away This is a war and the enemies engaging But you can see through their lies and decide for your life I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers Were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 2] [Verse 1: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] It doesnt matter what they say I wont accept it in any single way and-a Through the floors and-a through the cabling Theyre permeating in through every single day But I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers And were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you [Buildup: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] (Do what you wanna do) (Do what you wanna do) (Do what you wanna do) (Dont let em run you) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 3: Olly Simmons, Bruno Balanta] You! Dont let em run you [Verse 2: Olly Simmons] Theyre gonna take it all away This is a war and the enemies engaging But you can see through their lies and decide for your life I wont be confined by their regimented borders Weve got the strength of over fifty thousand soldiers Were not duty bound to anybodys orders (Come on everybody now) Dont let em run you! [ Drop 4] [Outro: Bruno Balanta] Dont let em run you
Former Dems Now Backing Trump: Our Countrys Going in the Wrong Direction Donald Trump joined Bill OReilly on "The Factor" tonight to discuss a wide range of topics, including his claims that the election is rigged against him. " The system is rigged," Trump said, arguing that the media has been "horrible" in their coverage of him, while giving Hillary Clinton a pass for her various scandals. He added that Clinton was also given a pass by the Justice Department and the FBI for her private email server and mishandling of state secrets. " She is so guilty in so many different ways that she shouldnt even be allowed to run for president," Trump stated. " So right there, the system is really rigged." The Republican nominee added that he also isnt ruling out the possibility of widespread election fraud, with votes being miscounted at locations around the country. OReilly pointed out that there arent any "hard facts" to back up such allegations. " Trump asserted that there are 1.8 million deceased people registered to vote and 2.8 million people registered to vote in two states. " There are things that are going on, Bill." Watch the "OReilly Factor" interview above, and let us know what you think in the comments. Clinton Aide in New WikiLeaks Email: We Need to Clean This Up.
Barack Obama increased the US national debt by nearly $10 trillion dollars and the liberal media SAID NOTHING! But now that President Trump is in office the liberal media had suddenly developed a new found interest in government spending. On Sunday Vice President Mike Pence attended the Indianapolis Colts game against the San Francisco 49ers. The VP had planned to attend the game for weeks. But after the NFL millionaires disrespected the US flag and military by kneeling during the national anthem, Vice President Pence and his wife walked out of the game. The liberal media is attacking the vice president for defending the flag and military. Several liberal hacks lashed out at the vice president after he left the game. Now this… CNN actually tabulated the cost of Mike Pence’s trip to the game. As if they give a damn about government spending! This is CNN: How much did Vice President Mike Pence’s trip to Indianapolis to watch — and then abruptly leave — a football game Sunday between the Indianapolis Colts and San Francisco 49ers cost? Here is an estimate of just the air costs (which does not include costs of advance personnel, Secret Service or support on the ground): According to the Air Force, flying a C-32, the model of plane used for Air Force 2, for one hour costs about $30,0. Pence’s flight from Las Vegas to Indianapolis Saturday took about three hours and 20 minutes, so it cost about $100,0 Pence then flew from Indianapolis to Los Angeles on Sunday, which took about four hours and 45 minutes, costing about $142,500.
Methinks she doth protest too much -- and too late. Those who condemned President Trump for not condemning white supremacist groups quickly and forcefully enough after Charlottesville have no problem with Hillary Clinton taking five full days to hypocritically condemn sexual predator Harvey Weinstein. So her recent expression of disgust over Weinstein’s activities ring hollow: At long last, the people who do the strategic planning for Hillary Clinton and tell her what emotions she should imitate in response to various stimuli have weighed in and they have decided that Harvey Weinstein is not a nice man: I was shocked and appalled by the revelations about Harvey Weinstein. The behavior described by the women coming forward cannot be tolerated. Their courage and the support of others is critical in helping to stop this kind of behavior. Hillary Clinton knew who and what Weinstein was as surely as she knew and knows what Bill Clinton is. she has benefited from as much as a quarter million dollars from Weinstein. In fact, Toobin said their association with Weinstein throughout the years is a dark mark on their record. The Obamas and the Clintons embraced him, did fundraisers with him, paid tribute to him, Toobin continued. I think it’s a dark mark on their record… The Obamas also finally said on record that they were disgusted by the recent reports about Harvey Weinstein. Michelle and I have been disgusted by the recent reports about Harvey Weinstein, the Obamas said in a statement. Any man who demeans and degrades women in such fashion needs to be condemned and held accountable, regardless of wealth or status. We should celebrate the courage of women who have come forward to tell these painful stories. Perhaps Weinstein wanted to see where Bill Clinton dropped his cigar in the Oval Office. Hillary, of course, should be all too familiar with Harvey Weinstein’s despicable behavior. Hillary famously said that all claims of rape, abuse, and harassment should be deemed credible and be believed until proven otherwise. And then there’s Juanita Broaddrick, who has accused President Clinton of rape. She destroyed women so that their stories never saw the light of day. At a Trump press conference in 2016, Broaddrick, tired of being accused of being part of that vast right-wing conspiracy, and afraid that her attacker would once again occupy the White House with the woman who orchestrated the attacks on Bill Clinton’s bimbo eruptions, repeated her accusation: Actions speak louder than words, Broaddrick said. Mr. Trump may have said some bad words but Bill Clinton raped me and Hillary Clinton threatened me. The three women, who say their lives were forever changed by their experiences with the Clintons, used words like terrified and frightened to describe their feelings about the prospects of a Hillary Clinton presidency… We were not willing participants, Broaddrick said. In a separate interview, Broaddrick shared her own story of brutal sexual assault which she says Bill Clinton perpetrated against her. Willey called out NBC News’ Andrea Mitchell and CNN’s Jake Tapper by name, challenging them: These are not infidelities. This is about a serial rapist, a predator, and his wife who has enabled his behavior all of these years. It terrifies me and it should terrify all women, Jones stated about Hillary’s presidential ambitions. It should terrify all men and women, Willey added. Across the board for I don’t know how many years. Hillary and Hollywood knew them and their activities full well and tolerated them for similar reasons. We should be appalled, if not shocked, at their craven hypocrisy as both have waged a sick and depraved and very real war on women. Daniel John Sobieskiis a freelance writer whose pieces have appeared in Investor’s Business Daily, Human Events, Reason Magazine and the Chicago Sun-Times among other publications.
Date: 3rd August 2017 at 11:23am Written by: James Forrest On the morning following an excellent Champions League game, what do you know? The Daily Record has yet another story linking Celtic fans to extremism, and this one is as bent looking as it’s possible to be. Today they are featuring a Celtic fan who sent a bomb threat to Ibrox with an ISIS twist. And it doesn’t take much to knock this story on its ass. This person joined Twitter in July this year. He or she has a grand total of 59 followers and follows a grand total of 125. This is the textbook definition of a complete non-story; if this person exists at all The Record has elevated them beyond utter irrelevance and used them to beat the rest of our support. I would suggest this story has been manufactured. I had a look at this Twitter twat’s timeline; he is a clown. He rants about various subjects in the kind of pre-school language Twitter is full of. The Record knows full well this is an idiot with a few fried brain cells, but I said the other day that an agenda is being pursued here and this is another demonstration of it. To have blown a tweet by a complete nobody off Twitter into a story that smears the Celtic support as a whole is an act of malevolence against our club, and as per usual with that arse-rag the story is so weak that no-one wants to stand their own name beside it. It carries the standard appellation for a story which is Utter Mince; Daily Record Online Reporter – or Daily Record Shit-Stirring Troll, a far more accurate description. Basically, a clown whose job is to scour Twitter and Facebook for any anti-Celtic angle they can find. I know nobody in our support still reads this gutter-rag … I still do not understand why anyone from our club is willing to talk to its journalists or entertain their presence at our ground. This publication does not wish us well, I cannot put it more bluntly than that. The paper claims to have reported this incident to Police Scotland. Hiding a blatant smear job behind civic virtue … a new low even for them.
Colin Kaepernick is one of the most divisive players to have ever played in the NFL, on the back of his stance against police brutality last year, and his refusal to stand during pre-game national anthems as a result. Criticism rained down on the former San Francisco 49ers Quarterback for his actions, but he also won support aplenty from fellow athletes and onlookers for his social justice stance. The 29-year-old is currently unemployed because of his actions, however, and NFL clubs are reluctant to touch him because of the publicity that his protests attract. Kaepernick is one of the most courageous sports stars in the world, and should be lauded for not accepting what others know is wrong, but keep their mouths shut anyway. Instead, despite being one of the best quarterbacks in the game, he doesnt have a club. US president Donald Trump was speaking at a rally in Alabama on Friday night when he took declining NFL TV ratings to task, going on to claim that the lack of physicality in the game was a reason for this. Then he turned his attention to the Milwaukee mans tendency to kneel during national anthems, and without mentioning by name, referred to him as a "son of a bitch." Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL Owners, when someone disrespects our flag to say, ‘get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he’s fired, he’s fired, Trump said to the crowd. . trump taking a veiled shot at colin kaepernick, says owner should say: "get that sonofabitch off the field right now. 0VrPG — fake nick ramsey (@nick_ramsey) September 23, 2017 You know, some owner is going to do that. He’s gonna say, ‘that guy disrespects our flag, he’s fired.’ They’ll be the most popular person for a week. They’ll be the most popular person in the country. It really is amazing just how brainwashed Trumps following is, and many of them were celebrating these comments like they were gospel, just like his own son was. Love this: @realDonaldTrump on NFL players disrespecting our : "get that son of a bitch off the field right now - YOURE FIRED!" — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 23, 2017 There are still sane people out there, and Kaepernicks mother Teresa spoke of her pride at her sons actions, as did many more. A protest for the eradication of racism that violates millions of those people is not disrespect. 4hAEz — Be A King (@BerniceKing) September 23, 2017 Smh &amp; all because @Kaepernick7 is exercising his right as an American citizen to protest. — Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017 Guess that makes me a proud bitch! — Teresa Kaepernick (@B4IleaveU) September 23, 2017 The war goes on.
General Election Presidential Primary Mrs. Clinton said Senator Bernie Sanders has been a largely very reliable supporter of the National Rifle Association. If you look back to Iowa, Ted did change his view and his stance on ethanol quite a bit." Marco Rubio said that the political and human-rights situation in Cuba had worsened since President Obama made his diplomatic opening to the island. Ted Cruz said Hillary Clinton, like Donald Trump, expresses a desire to be neutral between the Israelis and Palestinians. Mr. Rubio said two-thirds of the votes cast in the Republican primaries and caucuses to date have gone against Donald J. Trump. Mr. Trump says he has beaten Hillary Clinton in many general election polls. Mr. Trump said the Canadian border is about four times as long as the Mexican border. Democratic-appointed Supreme Court justices always stay Democratic; not so for Republicans. Donald J. Trump suggested he was not soliciting campaign contributions. Mr. Cruz said Marco Rubio told Univision that "he would not rescind President Obamas illegal executive amnesty on his first day in office." " The Constitution actually doesnt address that particular situation." Mr. Rubio said New Jerseys credit rating had been downgraded nine times during Gov. Chris Christies tenure. " When you ran against Senator Obama, you thought him naïve because he thought it was a good idea to talk to our enemies." " Almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent." Mrs. Clinton says that experts agree that her Wall Street reforms are the toughest. Cap-and-trade emissions regulations would "destroy our economy." Mrs. Clinton said legislation that Bernie Sanders supported in 2005 forbids all lawsuits against gun makers and sellers. Mr. Rubio accused Chris Christie of having a record similar to President Obamas on issues like education, gun control and abortion. Im one of the few of the candidates that actually shows up to vote. Mrs. Clinton said Donald J. Trump is becoming ISIS’ best recruiter. Senator Sanders voted to give immunity to gun dealers. Mr. Sanders said he voted against the Iraq war because of his opposition to unilateral action. They saw pipe bombs sitting all over the floor. Mr. Cruz’s characterizations of his vote on the USA Freedom Act, which expanded N.S.A. surveillance so we now have cellphones and other data. " A poll asserting that 25 percent of Muslim Americans condone acts of violence against other Americans was from a very highly respected group of people. I said Osama bin Laden is going to come and do damage to us. Mrs. Clinton said she introduced legislation to rein in executive compensation on Wall Street. Mrs. Clinton said that wages, when adjusted for inflation, have been stagnant since the end of the Clinton administration. If we were serious about it, we would raise the capital requirements. Mr. Trump said the United States was better off letting Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin, confront the Islamic State.
The line of Republican cowards attempting to curry favor with Donald Trump stretches out the door, around the building, down the block, through the next door overflow room, and extends up to space, where it circles around the moon like Dr Manhattan. Theres sniveling turdface Ted Cruz, who, among other things, listened to Trump call his wife ugly and his dad a traitor and a murderer. Theres J Crew crewneck used to wipe pig vomit off of a misspelled yield sign Paul Ryan, who Trump has basically played the one-way dozens with for three years. And of course theres Most Racist Cracker Barrel Manager Ever Jefferson Sessions, whos remained mute as a Nazi church mouse as Trump continues to drink his milkshake on Twitter every day. But none of these cowards compare to the cowardice standard exhibited by John McCain; whose cowardice is legion and legendary, massive and magnificent. Its been only two years since Darth Cheeto — who was then still just Anakin Skyrapist — doubted McCains war hero bonafides and added (quite humorously, I must admit) "I like people that weren’t captured." And now, heres McCain jumping out of his government-funded death futon to deny government-funded death futons to other sick people, all to support a President who disrespected the fuck out of him and whose only substantive agenda and platform is to erase everything the preceding President did. But what makes McCains cowardice special is that his whole entire personal and political brand is bravery. You expect people like Ted Cruz and Paul Ryan to be rats. But John McCain has created, attached himself to, and submerged himself in this maverick narrative; that hes somehow different from the rest of those craven motherfuckers. That he does what he does, but does what he does with integrity. And this story only exists and has been able to persist because he was a bad pilot. His "bravery" is to bravery what Arbys "roast beef" is to roast beef.
Officials familiar with the situation say that NATO has agreed to join the US-led anti-ISIS coalition on an alliance level, with indications that Germany and France were the last nations to agree to the formal move, which will be announced during the Brussels summit. All NATO members are already individually members of the anti-ISIS coalition, and diplomats say that the move will have no actual consequence, and seemingly is being done just for the sake of a purely symbolic gesture during President Trump’s visit. President Trump has always been keen to bring NATO deeper into the ISIS war, of course, and has made a big deal about NATO’s obsolescence because it wasn’t formed specifically to deal with terrorism, claiming in April that  back when they did NATO there was no such thing as terrorism. While shortly after his election most NATO officials were just attacking Trump for being too pro-Russia, recently they seem to be eager to please him, so long as it only requires symbolic actions that won’t amount to anything.
Surprisingly a lot of people are standing with Colin Kaepernick in his decision not to stand during the national anthem, "calling the Star Spangled Banner "weak" and saying that he doesnt truly love the song. Here is what he had to say on twitter: For those defending the current anthem, do you really truly love that song? Like, one of the best He continued to add: My vote is for America the Beautiful. Star spangled banner is a weak song anyway. 62FAbxj — John Legend (@johnlegend) August 30, 2016 John Legend linked to an article titled, "Colin Kaepernick Is Righter Than You Know: The National Anthem Is A Celebration Of Slavery" The article makes the arguement that an unsung verse of the Francis Scott Key poem is a moral "atrocity." The author claims the end of the rarely sung third verse "literally celebrated the murder of African-Americans." The verse reads: No refuge could save the hireling and slave From the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave, And the star-spangled banner in triumph doth wave O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave. @johnlegend not sure why its turned into a battle over the lyrics of our anthem. The lyrics were never Colins argument in the first place — Lindsey (@Lindsey50783746) August 30, 2016 All of John Legends tweets were made in support of the 49ers quarterback who refused to stand while the national anthem was being played during a preseason game. Kaepernick said that his sitd own was for "people that are being oppressed" and hell end the protest when "I feel like that flag represents what its supposed to represent."
From Israel’s prime minister down to the lowliest clerk, from the Commander in Chief down to the lowest ranking officer, from the Mossad down to the police by way of the Shabak – since 1994, everyone has been chanting the same mantra about peace with Jordan. The prevalent reasoning is that peace with Jordan is Israel’s most important strategic resource for the following reasons: 1.Security: The 500-kilometer border between Israel and Jordan is Israel’s longest border with another country, reaching from Hamat Gader and the Yarmouk River in the north down to Eilat in the south. Jordan makes sure the border is quiet along its entire length and prevents hostile forces from approaching it and continuing west into Israel. If not for the peace declared between the two states, Israel would have to keep large forces along the border to guard it against infiltration. Jordan is the second Arab nation to have signed a peace treaty with Israel, proving that Israel can find itself accepted in the Middle East as a sustainable country with whom former enemies can make peace by rethinking their previous positions. King Hussein of Jordan was a party to these decisions but carried on negotiations with Israel, recognized it and signed a peace treaty, as did Egypt before him. The obvious conclusion is that any Arab nation can do the same, making peace with Jordan a significant accomplishment, 3. This stamp of approval is especially important in granting much-needed legitimacy to the Hashemite Kingdom. The British gave the Transjordan Emirate to Abdullah I, great grandfather of today’s Abdullah. Another payment Israel took upon itself is the handing over of 50 million cubic meters of drinkable water to Jordan every year. Israel’s payment for this by handing over water and securing Jordan’s status in Jerusalem is one Israel can handle in exchange for the premise that peace with Jordan serves Israeli interests. There are several possible answers to that query, ranging from a military junta made up of local Bedouin ruling the various populations, on to a civil war that leads to the country splitting in two, with a Palestinian state rising in the northwestern part of the country where there is a Palestinian Arab majority. It is no secret that the Palestinian majority in Jordan is opposed to the peace treaty with Israel. That is the reason his armed bodyguards are not Arabs, but members of the Circassian ethnic minority who stem from the Caucasian Mountain region and do not have their eyes on the throne, meaning that they are not suspected of planning to murder the king or poison his food. There are several Palestinian Arabs in the government and parliament who serve as token representatives, but the majority of them know exactly what the Hashemites think of the majority of Jordan’s citizenry, those who define themselves as Palestinians – never calling themselves Jordanians because that is used for Bedouin, viewed as lower class by the Palestinians, who are farmers and city dwellers. The Palestinian Arabs in Jordan are the economic engine of the country. They make up most of the merchants, manufacturers, businessmen, lawyers, accountants, academics, journalists, arts and media personalities, and they generally avoid contact with Israel and Israelis. They conduct a consistent and strict boycott of Israel. The cost of the peace agreement with Israel is prohibitive. King Abdullah II has turned Jordanian policy around and is an ardent supporter of the establishment of a Palestinian state in Judea and Samaria., one that will be able to look over at Israel and threaten it with missiles and short range mortars that hit from Dimona and Beer Sheva in the south, up along the coastal plain from Ashkelon, the Ashdod port, greater Tel Aviv, Ben Gurion airport, to Haifa and its port and all the way to Afula and Beit She’an. Abdullah would like to see these scenarios repeat themselves, a most realistic possibility. King Abdullah displayed his hostility towards Israel poverty in two recent events. Jordan acts against Israel as a matter of course in international circles, especially UNESCO and the UN Human Rights Council, two places that constantly attempt to delegitimize Israel. Abdullah, like the Palestinian Arabs, thinks that if he succeeds in removing Jerusalem from the State of Israel, the resulting demoralization will send the Jews packing. A demographic pressure in the Palestinian state will become terrorist pressure that turns life in Israel into Hell – exactly what Abdullah wants. Jordan today, it must be concluded, is working non-stop on the cover of its peace treaty with Israel to destroy the Jewish State and create a Palestinian one instead. That is why politicians bolster up the temporary tactical quiet, ignoring the strategic threat to the very existence of the state posed by the peace agreement. That’s why peace with him was positive in general. Now that King Abdullah’s nefarious scheme has been revealed, Israel must rethink its Jordanian route and work to create a Palestinian Arab state in all or part of Jordan, since the majority of the people there are Palestinian Arabs.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, thinks much too much has been made of Hillary Clinton’s statement to the FBI that she did did not know that the (C) markings on her emails meant and speculated that they referred to paragraphs marked in alphabetical order. Pelosi was asked by CBS News’ Josh Elliott whether Americans should be concerned that Clinton said she didn’t know what the markings meant. I think they shouldn’t be that concerned, she said on CBS This Morning. I think that the secretary of state deals with a large number of issues -- 30,0 emails -- we’re talking about a few that may have been marked ‘confidential.’ ‘ and ‘secret’ and ‘highly sensitive’ is where it becomes more problematic. The fact is that whatever it was that Hillary Clinton dealt with in that manner had no threat to our security, Pelosi continued, and I think that too much has been made of this. The attention being paid to the issue, she called a distraction from Congress’ unfinished business. Congress returns this week for a brief session before the November elections. There are two things it must get done -- prevent the government from shutting down on Oct. 1 by passing a short-term spending bill and provide funding for the fight against the Zika virus. The House minority leader complained that the president had asked for the resources to fight Zika in February, but not one cent has been appropriated by Congress. Zika funding has been held up because Democrats and Republicans have been fighting over how much to allocate to stop the virus, whether the money should be taken from anti-Ebola efforts, and they’re also arguing about funding for contraceptive measures. Pelosi said Republicans were rejecting anything that has to do with reproduction in the bill. Zika, which has been linked to birth defects, is transmitted by mosquitoes, and by sexual contact.
Steve Bannon hired Bill Burck, a co-managing partner of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &amp; Sullivan LLPs Washington, D.C., office, who also represented Don McGahn and Reince Priebus. ( AP Brandon) Steve Bannon, the former White House chief strategist, has hired a lawyer as he prepares to appear before the House Intelligence Committee as part of its investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, according to a report. Bannon hired Bill Burck, a co-managing partner of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &amp; Sullivan LLP’s Washington, D.C., office, according to The Daily Beast. White House counsel Don McGahn and former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus hired Burck in September to represent them in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling and possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Bannon is scheduled to testify before the House Intelligence Committee next week. Sources told The Daily Beast the former chief strategist intends to fully cooperate. Bannon was hired as chief executive of the Trump campaign in August 2016 and was tapped by President Trump to serve as White House chief strategist. He left his post there in August 2017 and returned to Breitbart News as its executive chairman. But, Bannon and Breitbart parted ways earlier this week amid a spat between President Trump and his former chief strategist. Bannon made derogatory comments about the president and his family in a new tell-all book, prompting a fiery condemnation from Trump. Though Bannon had previously avoided being swept up in the Russia probe—until the House Intelligence Committee asked last month for him to appear before lawmakers—he had been discussing the probe with Trump behind the scenes.
Former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama have enlisted Chance the Rapper for their first-ever Obama Foundation Summit in Chicago. Taking place Oct. 31 and Nov. 1, the inaugural event is set to bring hundreds of leaders from around the world together to exchange ideas, explore creative solutions to common problems and experience civic art, technology and music from around the world, according to Billboard. In addition to performing, Chano will serve as curator alongside some all-star musical guests, including Gloria Estefan and the National, who will headline. I’m curating a concert on Nov. 1 for the #ObamaSummit. Follow @ObamaFoundation so you don’t miss it. Lil Chano From 79th (@chancetherapper) October 13, 2017 Chance has a rich history with the Obamas. His father once worked for President Obama, while Michelle has publicly praised his $1 million donation to Chicago Public Schools. Chance, I am grateful for everything you’ve done on behalf of our young people back home, said the former POTUS during a recent concert. I’m hopeful that everyone who is at the concert today, everybody who is getting involved, everybody who’s been part of the parade, all of you are of the mindset that you can do anything that you want to do, as long as you put your mind to it. Last year, Chance beamed while discussing his famous supporters, who still resided in the White House at the time. If you go up there, you’ll probably hear Coloring Book, he said. This is not a joke at all…Malia [Obama] listens to Coloring Book. And I send them stuff sometimes…Barack was talking about it. Or, uh, President Obama was talking about it.
Former President Barack Obama waves as he departs the East Front of the U.S. Capitol, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017 in Washington after the inauguration of President Donald Trump. ( AP Brandon) Dumbfounded that Donald Trump beat his hand-picked successor, Hillary Clinton, as president, former President Barack Obama and a top aide began plotting to destroy the president-elect around Christmas, according to a new book on Democrat efforts to undermine President Trump. What’s more, the goal was to not just damage the Trump presidency but set the Republican president up for impeachment, according to Ed Klein’s latest from Regnery Publishing, All Out War: The Plot to Destroy Trump. In an exclusive excerpt provided to Secrets, Klein described a "Christmastime" dinner during which national security adviser Susan Rice pushed plans to unmask, or disclose, the names of several Trump campaign associates who were mentioned or whose conversations were captured in intelligence intercepts of Russian officials. Klein, a former New York Times editor who has written several insider accounts critical of the Clintons and Obamas, said that Obama knew of Rice’s efforts to disclose the names in hopes they would leak to the media and spark an investigation. He knew Rice wanted to encourage leaks to the Washington Post and the New York Times accusing Trump and his campaign of colluding with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the American presidential election, Klein wrote. If Rice’s plot succeeded — that is, if it could be proved that Trump had colluded with Putin during the campaign or, later, if it could be proved that he had tried to prevent an investigation into such collusion — Trump would likely face charges of impeachment, said the new Klein book. But, he added, Obama didn’t know that his closest aide, Valerie Jarrett, was behind the plot. Rice eventually had to testify to Congress about her actions, and denied leaking Trump campaign and associate names. Klein does not reveal his source other than offering the source as Jarrett’s friend. During the dinner, wrote Klein, first lady Michelle Obama raised concerns that the effort was clearly a political plot to sandbag Trump. Rice, however, is quoted saying she was worried about national security and she referenced the leaks of Democratic National Committee emails, embarrassing to the Clinton campaign, by Russian sources. She wanted, said the book, to make sure that the alleged links to the Trump campaign and Russia became public before Trump came to office. She said she was afraid that once Trump got into the White House, the evidence of collusion would be covered up or destroyed, wrote Klein. At that point during the dinner, the former first lady, said the book, cautioned that the plot could bite us in the ass. As her husband mulled Rice’s plea to unmask the names by lowering security clearances, Jarrett’s friend told Klein, Most of the time he had to choose between the lesser of two evils. It was clearly unethical to use illegal leaks to sabotage Trump. But Barack could argue that it was his patriotic to duty to draw attention to the possibility that the Trump campaign had conspired with the Russians to influence the outcome of an American election. At point, his source said, Valerie piped up. ‘ Well,’ she said, ‘[FBI Director James] Comey thinks Susan’s on to something. He’s investigating whether the Trump campaign cooperated with the Russians. Klein concluded, Valerie has a sixth sense how to handle Barack and Michelle. She understood Michelle’s reservations and her desire to protect her husband, and she wanted to give Michelle a chance to vent. But Valerie left no doubt that she was in favor of Barack going along with Susan’s scheme. Paul Bedard, the Washington Examiners "Washington Secrets" columnist, can be contacted at pbedard@washingtonexaminer.com
Now the plan is for arch-Socialist Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren to win the presidency in 2020 for a slightly postponed takeover. ( AP Senne) "There’s something happening here." — Buffalo Springfield, 1967 Every major leftist movement the world has seen has been totalitarian by nature. Contemporary liberal Democrats reveal their totalitarian proclivities in many subtle ways, such as support for single-payer healthcare and all other forms of big government, and some that are not so subtle. Recent years have seen a surge in the latter variety. Shouting down conservative speakers on college campuses to silence their views has been ongoing, but now the practice has graduated to violent attacks on speakers and audiences. There is no record of comparable suppression of speech by conservatives. Of course, candidate Obama’s own personal history was deemed off-limits. Hypocrisy is a familiar trait of leftist totalitarians. ( Investigations by three different governmental commissions concluded that he did not lie about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The IRS campaign of terror against conservative groups was only one of the most obnoxious. Richard Nixon received an article of impeachment for much less. ( Hillary, in particular, was a disciple of leftist Saul Alinsky. ( Black Lives Matter extremists demand the murder of police, and the misnamed Antifa ironically lives the fascist ideal of causing mayhem whenever someone utters a thought contrary to liberal Democrat political correctness. For instance, dare to agree with the view on homosexual marriage held until a few years ago by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama and you become a target. ( Recall Alinsky’s isolate it, freeze it, personalize it.) Likewise, the revelations about leftist groups such as the Southern Poverty Law Center demonizing those they disagree with. The left decided long ago to downplay debate over ideas—their ideology having failed empirically all over the world—and to simply use neo-McCarthyist tactics instead. ( 7) In Animal Farm, some pigs really are more equal than others. They need to aggravate those relations so their side is better able to exploit the issue. Politics is everything to liberal Democrats, because government power is everything to them. ( 9) Perhaps the worst of the Big Lies was if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, designed to give liberal Democrat government absolute life-and-death power over all citizens through the enactment of Obamacare. What better way to achieve totalitarian rule than mortal power over all the ruled people? This outcome would establish their goal of a one-party dictatorship, in effect―if only it had happened. The dream scenario having been snatched away is what has driven the liberal Democrats over the edge. And if they tear the nation apart as they act out, so much the better, in their warped view. Now the plan is for arch-socialist Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren (who misrepresented her own race for financial gain), to win the presidency in 2020 for a slightly postponed takeover. John Gaski is an associate professor at the Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame. He is a long-time registered Democrat and long-time registered Republican—intermittently, not simultaneously. If you would like to write an op-ed for the Washington Examiner, please read our guidelines on submissions here.
U.S. President-elect Donald Trump speaks at his election night rally in New York early on Nov. 9, 2016. Trump stunned America and the world Wednesday, riding a wave of populist resentment to defeat Hillary Clinton in the race to become the 45th president of the United States.
Yet again we see more evidence that the media and leftist government officials are lying to the American public. Why are they risking violence when it is unnecessary? Watch this video posted on Facebook by Will Johnson, a common sense conservative, who intends to be a part of a free speech rally this weekend in San Francisco. As he states it is intended to be a pro Trump rally, however it is clearly being painted by politicians and the media as a white supremacist rally with a call for the presence of Antifa. How is it possible to have a white supremacy rally when the rally barely has any white people attending? /videos/1875854002678972/ 60 Celebrities Who Are Mega Trump Supporters - #20 Is Unbelievable!
Credit: YouTube Considering over 60 percent of United States citizens support going to war with North Korea, one would hope the majority would be able to, at the very least, locate the country on a map. The laughable discovery was made when Jimmy Kimmel and his team visited Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles, California, and asked passersby to locate North Korea on a map. Many citizens were upfront about their lack of geographic knowledge but guessed anyway. Their estimates ranged from Canada to the Middle East to Australia. Only the minority actually knew where North Korea is located. Though the political situation in the United States is less than ideal at present, at least the people interviewed aren’t in charge of firing any missiles. Please comment below and share this news!
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump on Friday called allegations of Russian election meddling a hoax, and insisted the media was the greatest influence on the 2016 campaign. Trump’s tweets early Friday appeared to respond to Facebook’s announcement that the social media giant will provide to congressional investigators the contents of 3,0 ads bought by a Russian agency. The Russia hoax continues, now it’s ads on Facebook. What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favour of Crooked Hillary? He later added: The greatest influence over our election was the Fake News Media ‘screaming’ for Crooked Hillary Clinton. The Russia hoax continues, now it’s ads on Facebook. What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 22, 2017 The greatest influence over our election was the Fake News Media "screaming" for Crooked Hillary Clinton. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 22, 2017 Facebook has faced growing pressure from members of Congress to release the content of the ads. The company has already handed over the ads to the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Facebook also says it will now require political ads to disclose both who is paying for them and all ad campaigns those individuals or groups are running on Facebook.
Frederick M. Images for BET The rapper was taken into custody Saturday morning. Nelly has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman, TMZ reports. According to Law enforcement sources, a woman has accused the rapper of raping her on his tour bus in Washington. The alleged rape is reported to have occurred at approximately 3:45 AM Saturday, with Nelly being arrested on second degree rape charges around 7:00 AM. Nelly is currently on tour with country act Florida Georgia Line. He was set to take the stage in Ridgefield, Washington Saturday night. Friday nights show took place at the White River Amphitheatre in Auburn, WA. Q13 FOX correspondent and anchor Brandi Kruse reports that Nelly met the alleged victim in Seattle after the show. There has been no official word from Nellys representatives at this time. Further coverage to come as information arrives. UPDATE: Nellys attorney has released a statement to Page Six, among other publications. Nelly is the victim of a completely fabricated allegation. Our initial investigation, clearly establishes, this allegation is devoid of credibility and is motivated by greed and vindictiveness. I am confident, once this scurrilous accusation is thoroughly investigated, there will be no charges. Nelly is prepared to address and pursue all legal avenues to redress any damage caused by this clearly false allegation. Nellys last tweet was at 3:23 AM EST or 12:23 AM PDT (local Washington time) Saturday. It reads, "Anytime you feel like the whole world is against you you need to scratch that shit its really you against the whole world because the whole world dont know you exist." TMZ has posted a video of the rapper that was reportedly filmed earlier in the night.
Some even say they’re not going to take it anymore. " It" is the result of November’s presidential election. Their movement is called Calexit, as in Brexit. Hillary Clinton outpolled Donald Trump by a two-to-one margin here. " The Golden State has a population of 39 million people, more than any other state in the union, and more people than in all of Canada. Metro Los Angeles alone is home to close to 19 million, a total greater than Ontario and Alberta combined. It’s home to Silicon Valley and companies such as Google, Apple, Cisco, Intel, Oracle, and SpaceX. California boasts the world’s sixth largest economy, greater than France, Italy, South Korea and India. California is also culturally distinct from much of the rest of the U.S. It’s synonymous with liberal causes, from environmental protection to gun control to health care, and that has other Americans judging Californians, and not in a flattering way. It’s a reality not lost on Marcus Ruiz Evans, one of the movers and shakers behind Calexit. " California," he admitted to the Washington Post, "(is) seen as weird." That weirdness extends to politics beyond the presidential variety. Gov. Jerry Brown has vowed to ensure Californians have health insurance coverage, offered through the state-run health exchange called Covered California, even if Trump Republicans repeal ObamaCare. But where the state most hears a different drummer is on immigration. Californians are decidedly in favour of it, and it’s easy to see why. California has the largest immigrant population in the union, approximately 10 million in total, a quarter of those undocumented. If you’re not an immigrant in California, you know one. In response to Trump’s ambitions to engage in large-scale deportation of illegal immigrants, the state legislature is considering a bill that would declare the state a "sanctuary." Lawmakers have even hired former Obama attorney general Eric Holder to battle the Trump administration on the issue. That step earned the enmity of the new president. " Trump claims California is ‘out of control,’ " writes columnist George Skelton in the Los Angeles Times, though the irony is undoubtedly lost on the president. Trump has threatened to cut off federal funds to California. " We give tremendous amounts of money to California." There has been much grousing about the Trump administration ever since the threats were levelled, fertile ground for Calexit. The secessionists even have the support of Silicon Valley billionaires Peter Thiel and Shervin Pishevar. In January, the group Yes California was given permission to circulate a petition with the intention of putting the sovereignty question on the 2018 ballot. If the petition is successful — close to 600,0 signatures are required — a special vote to decide the state’s future would follow in 2019. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said he believes secession is a bad idea. According to a new opinion poll taken in California, one-third of respondents support "peaceful withdrawal from the union." As one tweeter wrote: "We’ll just take our avocados and legal weed and go." Terry McConnell is a former Edmonton Journal columnist, editorial writer and copy editor now living in California
TAMPA BAY, Fla. - Americans around the country are being urged to donate blood at their local blood center in order to assist victims of Hurricane Irma. OneBlood, a Florida based blood center, resumed blood collections on Tuesday. All blood types are needed, however, there is an urgent need for platelet donors and people with O negative blood. Hurricane Irma forced OneBlood to suspend operations for three days and as a result, there is an urgent need to replenish the blood supply in Florida. Donors should visit for donor center hours and blood drive locations. OneBlood, in coordination with America’s Blood Centers and Blood Centers of America, has been actively arranging for shipments of blood to be brought in to Florida by blood centers from around the country. OneBlood is urging people living outside of Irma’s path to visit their local blood center and donate blood as soon as possible to assist those desperately in need in Florida. Those interested in donating blood may contact the following organizations to find a local blood drive and to schedule an appointment: AABB: +1.301.907.6977
Facebook has set up a crisis response page so people who are in Las Vegas can let people know they are safe. More than 50 people died in the shooting and at least 400 people have been injured in the shooting, according to Las Vegas police. The shooting started around 10:08 p.m. local time. Those numbers would make this the deadliest mass shooting in United States history. The suspect has been identified as local man Stephen Paddock, 64. Paddock was shooting from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay, Sheriff Joe Lombardo said. Police believe Paddock killed himself before law enforcement entered the room, Lombardo said. People can check in to let Facebook friends now they are in Las Vegas and that they are safe. Police also advise people to call 1-866-535-5654 to check in on loved ones.
Ninety-two percent of Muslims in the U.S. are proud to be American, even though 75 percent say there is "a lot" of discrimination against Muslims in the U.S. Nine-in-ten Muslims reported having a positive feeling about living in the U.S., even though 75 percent believe it has become harder to be Muslim in the U.S. in recent years. The survey found that Muslims feel that the main problems they face in the U.S. are negative media coverage about the religion (60 percent), misconceptions about Islam (9 percent) and President Trump’s attitudes policies towards Muslims (9 percent). The survey was conducted Jan. 23 to May 2, and 1,001 U.S. Muslim adults participated. Nearly 48 percent have experienced some type of discrimination. Researchers at the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) found that the number of hate groups specifically targeting Muslims in the U.S. has nearly tripled in the past year. SPLC reported that there were 34 hate groups in 2015 and the figure has risen to 101. The SPLC attributed the increase in hate groups in part to Trumps campaign rhetoric. " The growth has been accompanied by a rash of crimes targeting Muslims, including an arson that destroyed a mosque in Victoria, Texas, just hours after the Trump administration announced an executive order suspending travel from some predominantly Muslim countries," SPLC said in a statement. But despite the backlash Muslims have received from Trumps presidency, participants said they have experienced support in the past few months from non-Muslims
It is a rich if tragic irony that the same progressives denouncing Richard Spencer and demanding that municipal statues be torn down for their alleged white supremacist qualities are themselves closely aligned with a white supremacist-tied group. I am speaking, of course, of Planned Parenthood, which is to the abortion-loving Left what Adolf Hitler’s bunker would have become to fascists had Germany not demolished it in the late 1980s: a sort of holy shrine upon which adulation and adoration can be fixated.
Donald Trump ran on many braggadocios and largely unrealistic campaign promises. One of those promises was to be the best, the hugest, the most competent infrastructure president the United States has ever seen. Trump was going to fix every infrastructure problem in the country and Make America Great Again in the process. In that case, you’re on your own, even after a massive natural disaster like Hurricane Maria. Puerto Rico’s debt, which the Puerto Rican citizens not in government would have no responsibility for, has nothing to do with using federal emergency disaster funds to save the lives of American citizens there. The infrastructure is certainly a mess at this point after a Category 5 hurricane ripped through the island, and 84 percent of Puerto Rican people are currently without electricity. Emergency efforts after Hurricanes Irma and Harvey reportedly went very well and Trump praised himself as well and even saw his disastrous approval ratings tick up slightly as a result. However, the insufficient response in Puerto Rico has nothing to do with Trump, in his mind, and can only be blamed on the people there who do not live in a red state and have no electoral college votes to offer the new president for 2020. Twitter responded with sheer incredulity at Trump’s vicious attack on an already suffering people.
The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy. 0827 EDT] - Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch &amp; Release. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. 0956 EDT] - Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. 1025 EDT] - These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. 1028 EDT] -- Source link: ( ( (Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
Credit: Do It Wiser Plastic is plaguing the environment left and right and one of the single biggest contributors is the use of single-use plastic bottles. This includes water bottles and those used for other beverages, like sodas and sugary sports drinks, and the demand for them is only increasing despite global efforts to stem plastic usage in the bud. Plastic bags and bottles ravage the Earth from production to disposal, and yet humans buy approximately one million bottles per minute, according to Euromonitor, a market research group. Those numbers are expected to increase by another 20% by 2021, which will devastate climate, beaches, oceans, and all of the animals that reside in these areas. According to figures from Euromonitor, humans bought 480 billion plastic bottles in the year 2016, which is 300 billion more than the numbers from a decade ago. To make matters worse, less than half of those bottles was collected for recycling and only about 7% of those collected were turned into new bottles. Manufacturers complain that using recycled plastic ruins the appeal of the bottles and that it costs more to use these materials, which will fall on the consumer. Experts speculate that this demand for 20,0 bottles per second has been exacerbated by the on-the-go, urban culture that has taken over in cities in China and the Asia Pacific region. With an increased population comes a rise in the demand for PET (polyethylene terephthalate) bottles, which is why Chinese citizens bought 73.8 billion bottles last year, up more than 5 billion since the year before it. [ China] is a critical country to understand when examining global sales of plastic PET bottles, and China’s requirement for plastic bottles continues to expand, said Euromonitor’s head of packaging, Rosemary Downey. It’s not enough that reusable water bottles are trending right now because that doesn’t help the nations who can’t trust the cleanliness of their tap water. This surge in buying plastic bottles is also largely driven by developing countries, where disposability is more important than sustainability and being eco-friendly. This increase is being driven by increased urbanization, Downey said. There is a desire for healthy living and there are ongoing concerns about groundwater contamination and the quality of tap water, which all contribute to the increase in bottle water use. Credit: Bottle Ban If municipalities would clean up their water or work to provide safe drinking water to certain regions for the first time, it’s likely that plastic pollution, especially when it comes to bottles, would decline dramatically and slow the environmental health crisisthat is building every day. Sadly, it’s estimated that approximately 5 to 13 million tons of plastic leak into the ocean every single year, ultimately to be worn down into fragments that float in the water column and can sometimes become a part of one of the many garbage patches. Fish, sea birds, and other marine life will eat the specks of plastic or even consume larger pieces, which can eventually kill them. Since humans consume a variety of fish from the ocean, these plastics can also make their way onto our dinner plates. The plastic pollution crisis rivals the threat of climate change as it pollutes every natural system and an increasing number of organisms on planet Earth, said Hugo Tagholm, the CEO of Surfers Against Sewage. Current science shows that plastics cannot be usefully assimilated into the food chain. Where they are ingested they carry toxins that work their way on to our dinner plates. There are several solutions that groups and experts have suggested to reduce the number of plastic bottle usage, ranging from cutting bottles out cold turkey to encouraging a payment system to use plastic bottles. While some places, like San Francisco, banned the sale of plastic bottles, other groups advocate for what’s called a circular economy. In the circular economy, plastic bottles would be used, recycled, refilled, and reused, effectively reducing waste. Surfers Against Sewage is currently campaigning for a deposit return system to be implemented in the UK, which the equivalent of CRV that is collected in the U.S. that can be returned to people that recycle their bottles or cans. If you aren’t compelled by these reasons to stop using plastic bottles, consider what your beaches will look like once plastic dominates the world even more. Remote islands with little to no beach clean-ups have shown evidence of extreme pollution along their coast and upwards of 18 tons on their beaches, revealing what the future of even the nicest beaches will be. Consider purchasing a reusable water bottle today and making a huge difference for the environment.
In Washington, the ostensible story is rarely the real story. We know, for example, that former President Clinton engineered a meeting with President Obama’s attorney general, Loretta Lynch, on the tarmac of the Phoenix Airport on June 27, 2016. That’s the official story, replete with the charming and intentionally disarming detail that all they talked about was their grandchildren. It was just coincidental, don’t you know, that at the time the FBI was looking into Hillary Clinton’s use of a personal email server to send, receive and store classified information. And it was also simply coincidental that just a few days later, the director of the FBI – who served under Attorney General Lynch – announced that he wouldn’t recommend a prosecution of Hillary Clinton. Richard Nixon must be rolling over in his grave. What we haven’t known, until now, is that a frantic scramble erupted in the halls of the FBI to cover up this meeting. What we haven’t known, until now, is that a frantic scramble erupted in the halls of the FBI to cover up this meeting. In fact, the FBI turned its sharp light not on the scandalous meeting between the attorney general and Bill Clinton – but rather on one of the whistleblowers who got the word out. The organization I head, Judicial Watch, asked the FBI on July 7, 2016, for any records that might pertain to the infamous tarmac meeting. We had to sue after we were ignored by the agency. Then the FBI told us flat-out that it couldn’t find any records. And we now know that was flat-out untrue. Because, in responding to another one of our Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) lawsuits, the Justice Department gave us heavily redacted documents that showed there were additional documents tucked away at the FBI headquarters. If not for Judicial Watchs lawsuits these documents would still be hidden today. Because of the revelation in our other lawsuit, the FBI – without our knowledge—"reopened" our FOIA request. The agency supposedly found about 30 pages of information, which it needed six weeks to review. The FBI finally gave them to us late Thursday. Now we know why the FBI played shell games. The documents show that FBI officials were concerned solely about the leaking of details of the tarmac meeting. None of the documents show top agency officials cared one whit about the propriety of the meeting itself, but only about who blew the whistle on the covert tête-à-tête. In one email, an FBI official writes we need to find that guy. And in another we learn that the Phoenix FBI office was contacted in an attempt to stem any further damage. An FBI official working on Lynch’s security detail even goes so far as to suggest non-disclosure agreements to keep the full facts from coming forth. No wonder the FBI didn’t turn these documents over until we caught it red-handed, hiding and lying about them. Simply put, the FBI appears to be fully complicit in a cover-up that attempted to influence a presidential election for a favored candidate – Hillary Clinton. And the truth was trampled on a Phoenix tarmac. Tom Fitton is president of Judicial Watch. Founded in 1994, Judicial Watch Inc. is a constitutionally conservative, nonpartisan educational foundation that promotes transparency, accountability and integrity in government, politics and the law.
Ever since a 2015 poll revealed that a certain slice of Americana supported bombing Agrabah, the fictional city Disneys Aladdin calls home, its been interesting to consider what other fictional countries have actually messed with the United States and totally gotten a pass. Agrabah didnt actually damage its relations with the U.S., presumably because the U.S. either doesnt exist yet in that world, or because they dont have oil. Pottsylvania — "Rocky and Bullwinkle" These guys have been sending special agents to try and kill American heroes FOR YEARS. Pottsylvania is populated entirely by special agents and saboteurs. Their children are taught assassination techniques and espionage practices from an early age, their highest medal is the Double Cross and their mysterious dictator (known only as "Fearless Leader") makes Kim Jong-Un look like a teddy bear. Their two most active agents are skilled infiltrators and have never been captured. They are pictured on this surveillance photo, planting an IED. These guys had the balls to shoot down an American F-16, capture its pilot, and then sentence him to hang in a show trial. This is not the face of someone who is just going to let that happen. Luckily, the pilots 16-year-old son Doug (an Air Force Academy reject) and Chappie, an Air Force Reserve pilot, steal two F-16s of their own and fly off to Bilya to rescue him. What should have happened was America launching an all-out raid on Bilyan infrastructure and military targets. Then, after they released the American they took for no reason, the Bilyans would pay us back the $18 million they owe us for shooting down our F-16. Val Verde — "Commando," "Predator," and "Die Hard 2" This nondescript South American country has more coups than a flock of pigeons (say that sentence aloud for the full effect). For some reason, all of their worst representatives seem to end up in the United States, ready to coerce American heroes to do their bidding. Fortunately, John Matrix lives inside an unlimited ammo cheat code world. In "Commando," a deposed dictator named Arius kidnaps John Matrix daughter to force him to kill the current president (of Val Verde). Spoiler Alert: he doesnt even make it to Val Verde. Instead, he ices every single person who came near his daughter. I hope Val Verde at least has good veterans hospitals. In "Predator," Dutch Schaeffers commando team has to mount a hostage rescue from guerrillas in Val Verde. You might know what happens next (hint: it has something to do with an invisible alien). " Well, he has plenty of time to bleed now." ( 20th Century Fox) Seriously, how many times do they get to mess with America before we do something about this? Who is the President in this movie universe? And I am dying to know more about this place – what are the exports, other than terrorism and contras? Latveria – Marvel Comics Latveria: a perfectly normal country. Latveria is an Eastern European nation tucked back into the Carpathian Mountains, led by a guy whose name is freaking Dr. Victor von Doom. Dr. Doom is obviously a state sponsor of terrorism. Doom is responsible for the proliferation of chemical weapons, attempted assassinations of allied heads of state, and oh so many crimes against humanity. And like many 20th century dictators, Dr. Doom got the Henry Kissinger seal of approval.
Donald Trump has responded to the emotional speech given by the father of a fallen Muslim U.S. Army soldier at the Democratic National Convention this week. In an interview with ABC News‘ George Stephanopoulos on Saturday, Trump fired back at Khizr Khan’s statement that he has sacrificed nothing for his country. I’ve made a lot of sacrifices, Trump said. I’ve created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures. Khan addressed Trump directly in his Thursday speech at the DNC, challenging the Republican presidential nominee’s proposed ban on Muslim immigrants to the U.S. Have you ever been to Arlington Cemetery? Go look at the graves of brave patriots who died defending the United States of America. You will see all faiths, genders and ethnicities, Khan said. In his interview with Stephanopoulos, Trump also took a jab at Khan’s wife Ghazala, who stood silently next to her husband at the DNC as he spoke about their son Capt. Humayun Khan, who was killed by a car bomb in Iraq in 2004 and posthumously awarded the Purple Heart and Bronze Star for his heroism. If you look at his wife, she was standing there, Trump said. She probably, maybe she wasn’t allowed to have anything to say. Trump echoed this sentiment in an interview Friday with the New York Times‘ Maureen Dowd. When Dowd asked him about Khan’s heartfelt speech, Trump’s only response was, I’d like to hear his wife say something. Ghazala told MSNBC in an interview on Friday that she was too emotional to speak about her son at the DNC, but opened up to MSNBC’s Lawrence O’Donnell about her son’s bravery.
You cannot vote for Donald Trump and pretend that this is just another election, and he is just another candidate. It’s not so easy to contemplate what makes so many people think America’s greatness is in desperate need of reformation, or what would make them turn to someone like Donald Trump to make it a reality. It isn’t just economic anxiety or trade deals or the opioid epidemic driving the mostly white, mostly male movement behind Trump’s campaign. It is the existential fear of displacement from a world that has slowly – too slowly, for too long – been chipping away at white male supremacy. The grab ’em by the pussy moment was disastrous for Trump’s campaign; it reinforced the defining narrative of his sexism. But it drew his strongest supporters even closer to him, because it reminded them of the world they’re losing. They want to live in an America where they can grab women by the pussy and brag about it to their friends. They want what’s coming to them, what’s owed them. And they are willing to burn down the world to get it. Donald Trump is the worst major-party candidate for president in American history. It’s breathtaking how incapable he is of forming a single coherent thought. The expectations for him were so low that there was little to no coverage of his failure over four-and-a-half hours to say anything intelligent about any issue important to the American people. He meanders, he interrupts, and he whines. Trump’s values are, in a word, deplorable. He stokes anger and fear and even violence among his supporters. He brags he has the best temperament, but that’s nonsense. He’s lashed out and punched down, attacking the parents of a dead soldier, a former beauty pageant winner who gained weight, countless reporters and anyone he perceives as insulting him. Think how much we still don’t know about Trump – how he hasn’t released his taxes, how many women there likely are who haven’t come forward – and you can imagine the scandals and corruption that lie in wait. Donald Trump cannot be president of the United States. Maybe they’re deeply conservative Republicans who despise what they believe Clinton would do to the country. Maybe they’re independents who see constant stories about her emails and have genuine fears about her judgment. But now is the moment for every last American to decide what it truly means to be a citizen. You can be reluctant about Hillary Clinton. You don’t even have to vote for her (though I did, without doubt or hesitation). What you cannot do is vote for Donald Trump and pretend that this is just another election, and he is just another candidate. It is your minimum duty as a citizen not to support a racist, sexist, unqualified, dishonest, corrupt manchild who celebrates everything that’s ugly about America and not a single thing that’s great about it. No matter how left out or left behind you feel, voting for Trump is nothing short of a moral failure. It’s an act of violence against America itself, whose greatness has always been about progressing from more oppression to less – slowly, sometimes haltingly, but forward. The promise on those red hats is to turn back in the other direction. Watch Donald Trump’s acceptance speech after becoming the new President-elect of the United States.
The NFL plans to allow the FBI and IRS investigations into the businesses run by new Cleveland Browns owner Jimmy Haslam to sort itself out before it decides whether it will take any action. NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said a report that Haslam might be asked to step down as the investigation into Pilot Flying J continues is inaccurate. " Haslam told the Associated Press on Friday that he will continue to run the Browns. " Haslam said earlier Friday he wont resign from his position as CEO of Pilot Flying J. "Why would I step down? I havent done anything wrong," Haslam said Friday while speaking at his companys headquarters in Knoxville, Tenn. "It still appears to us that this investigation is focused on a very narrow band of a very large company -- questions about how rebates were handled to a very small percentage of our trucking company customers." An FBI agents affidavit, which was unsealed Thursday alleges that Pilot Flying J -- the truck stop operator owned by the Haslam family -- engaged in a fraud scheme designed to keep money owed to its customers. According to the documents, multiple current and former employees of the company told authorities that Haslam, who purchased the Browns for $1.05 billion last October, knew of the fraud and was present at meetings where it was discussed. The NFL declined to comment on the matter. Haslam released the following statement Thursday: "Ive read the affidavits. I now understand more clearly the questions the federal investigators are exploring. I maintain that the foundation of this company is built on its integrity and that any willful wrongdoing by any employee of this company at any time is intolerable. We will continue to cooperate with the federal investigation and continue our own investigation in these allegations. I value the relationships we have with our customers, our vendors and our team members across this country and regret that they have to go through this with us, but I trust and believe their faith in this company and its principles has never been misplaced." According to The Associated Press, Haslam arrived in Cleveland on Thursday, three days after FBI and IRS agents executed four search warrants at Pilot Flying J company headquarters. The AP reported that at a Tuesday news conference in Knoxville, Haslam revealed the government is investigating rebates offered by the truck stop chain, but said, "We believe we did nothing wrong." His family -- including his brother, Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam -- owns 59 percent of the business. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Earlier this morning, President Trump took to Twitter to announce his decision to ban transgender individuals from serving in the U.S. military. After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow…… — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017 ….Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017 ….victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017 After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military, Trump announced via Twitter. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. The announcement drew swift responses on the social media platform. No American, no matter their sexual orientation or gender identity, should be prohibited from honor + privilege of serving our nation #LGBT, tweeted Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Pleased to hear that @realDonaldTrump shares my readiness and cost concerns, &amp; will be changing this costly and damaging policy #readiness, tweeted Rep. Vicky Jo Hartzler (R-MO). Just spoke to a Trump administration official about the transgender military decision. Jonathan Swan (@jonathanvswan) July 26, 2017 Trump’s decision will roll back military policy after the Obama administration lifted the ban last year, allowing transgender soldiers to openly serve in the United States Military. The Department of Defense policy drew sharp criticism, as it supported service members looking to change their gender, making them eligible to receive coverage for medically necessary care and treatment. This is the right thing to do for our people and for the force, former Defense Secretary Ash Carter said in announcing the policy. We’re talking about talented Americans who are serving with distinction or who want the opportunity to serve. We can’t allow barriers unrelated to a person’s qualifications prevent us from recruiting and retaining those who can best accomplish the mission. It is not yet clear what effect this decision will have on the roughly 250 transgender individuals currently serving openly in the armed forces. SOUND OFF: Do you support Trump’s decision to ban transgender citizens from serving in our armed forces?
As the New Year 5778 begins, 88% of Israeli Jews say that they are happy and satisfied with their lives. In Western Europe, Jewish communities that just a generation ago were considered safe and prosperous are now besieged. For where they are absent, as they were at the Hyper Cacher Jewish supermarket in Paris in 2015, assailants strike. Western European Jewry’s crisis is exogenous to the Jewish communities. This is not the situation among American Jewry, which at the dawn of 5778 also finds itself steeped in an ever-deepening crisis. But in large part, they have chosen not to. And they have chosen not to fight the anti-Semites because they are in the midst of a self-induced identity crisis. Based on the Pew data, the Jewish People Policy Institute published a report in June that noted that not only are 60% of American Jews who get married marrying non-Jews, only half of American Jews are getting married at all. Earlier this month, a study of American Jews was published by the Public Religion Research Institute. In 2013, 32% of American Jews under 30 said that they were not Jews by religion. Today the proportion of Jews under 30 who say they have no relation to the Jewish faith has ballooned to 47%. Whereas in 2013, 35% of American Jews identified as Reform, today, a mere four years later, only 28% identify as Reform. Among Jews, under 30 the situation is even starker. In 19 the Reform movement tried to deal with the problem by strengthening the movement’s religious practices. American Jews who seek spiritual and religious meaning likely want more than a sermon about Tikkun Olam. Unable to compete for Jews seeking religious fulfillment, the Reform and Conservative movements have struck out for new means of rallying their bases and attracting members. Take for instance the case of Davis, California, imam Amman Shahin. They appeared with him at a public apology ceremony, where he failed to apologize for calling for his Jewish colleagues, and every other Jew, to be murdered. All Shahin did express regret that his call for genocide caused offense. On the other hand, the same leaders stand as one against allegations of antisemitic violence stemming from the political Right. When it worked out that all of the threats were carried out by a mentally ill Israeli Jew, they never issued an apology. Moreover, the more radicalized Jews become politically, the more outlets they have for their political activism both as Jews and as leftists. Prospects for success of the second strategy are arguably even lower. And yet, rather than acknowledge that the decision was a setback but it didn’t harm the status of egalitarian prayer at the Wall, the Reform and Conservative movements declared war against the government and dragged much of the organized Jewish establishment behind them. Six hundred Conservative rabbis signed a letter to Netanyahu accusing him of betraying Diaspora Jewry and announcing they would be forced to reconsider their support for Israel. Friedman said, Yesterday, I heard something that I thought I’d never heard before. That’s something unthinkable in my lifetime, up until yesterday. But in the intervening months, the Conservative and Reform movements have not relented in their attacks. The problem with this is that just as they cannot outdo the Democratic Party in their hostility toward Trump, so the Conservative and Reform movements cannot be more anti-Israel than Jewish Voices for Peace and other anti-Israel Jewish groups. And the key to strengthening and supporting the community is to bypass its failed leadership and speak and interact directly with American Jews.
We have made great strides in the policing of thought in this country. Just ask Brendan Eich, one of the founders of Mozilla, developers of the web browser Firefox. Eich had just landed a promotion to the big chair as Mozilla’s CEO. Back in 2008 Eich donated a thousand dollars to support Proposition 8, the California ballot initiative to ban same-sex marriage. The unearthing of this donation led to protests from gay rights activists and the h igh profile call for a boycott of Firefox by dating site OkCupid.com. Eich, as many people in circumstances such as his, was stricken with the sudden desire to spend more time with his family and quietly resigned. Regardless of your position on same sex marriage, those activists who led to Eich’s resignation should be ashamed. Or else we will show you a display of true tolerance. In fact, it is no longer enough to be tolerant. Prior to his resignation, Eich told tech site CNET [i]f Mozilla cannot continue to operate according to its principles of inclusiveness, where you can work on the mission no matter what your background or other beliefs, I think we’ll probably fail. I saw that in friends’ eyes, [friends] who are LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgendered]. He sounds like a dedicated and thoughtful professional who was able to separate his work and personal lives–as well he should have been. But to the activist crowd, it’s not enough that people are tolerant. They must offer affirmation of the LGBT agenda or pay the price. Their much vaunted toleration doesn’t extend to those who might have opposing viewpoints, like Eich. Of course, gay rights activists claim that Eich’s views are not deserving of toleration because he sought to strip them of their rights. President Obama himself was opposed to same sex marriage in 2008. It’s about ramming through the right outcomes. An Associated Press piece about Eich’s resignation asks whether the episode undercuts the well-groomed image of Silicon Valley as a marketplace of ideas and diversity of thought, and whether, in this case, the tech world surrendered to political correctness enforced through a public shaming on social media. Andrew Sullivan, the unreliably conservative columnist had this to say: Will [Eich] now be forced to walk through the streets in shame? The whole episode disgusts me – as it should disgust anyone interested in a tolerant and diverse society. If this is the gay rights movement today – hounding our opponents with a fanaticism more like the religious right than anyone else – then count me out. If we are about intimidating the free speech of others, we are no better than the anti-gay bullies who came before us. The trite knock at the religious right is to be expected from a regular guest on Bill Maher’s show, but Sullivan is right to call the gay rights activists out on their bullying tactics. And the man has skin in the game, as an openly gay man who has long supported same sex marriage. Liberals like to mock those who speak of the gay agenda. The real agenda, they claim, is for homosexuals to be able to live out their lives in dignity with their loved ones. Such efforts at destroying opposition unfortunately make that more difficult to believe. And activists forget that perhaps next time, they won’t be the ones to define which thought crimes should be prosecuted. In a society which encourages the personal destruction of dissenters, any one of us can develop the desire to spend more time with family at any time.
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** Earlier this week, CNN published a story titled  White supremacists by default’: How ordinary people made Charlottesville possible, which basically said that every single person that voted for Donald Trump to be president was a White Supremacist by Default. Blake blamed Trump voters for helping to advance white supremacy. Because even the ordinary, non-racist Trump supporter was giving space for white supremacists to operate and are ultimately the reason for what took place in Charlottesville, Virginia. It’s easy to focus on the angry white men in paramilitary gear who looked like they were mobilizing for a race war in the Virginia college town, Blake wrote. Blake was not alone in putting this piece together. He cited Mark Naison, a political activist and history professor at Fordham University in New York City, who compared Trump supporters to the nice people in Nazi Germany and Rwanda. That was the twisted formula that made the Holocaust and Rwanda possible and allowed Jim Crow segregation to survive: Nice people looked the other way while those with an appetite for violence did the dirty work, Naison said. Blake then went on to say that there are four groups of people who play a part in racial divisions in the country, based on Ms. Naison and others. Many of the white racists who marched in Charlottesville were condemned because they openly said they don’t believe in integration or racial equality, Blake wrote about Trump supporters. But millions of ordinary white Americans have been sending that message to black and brown people for at least a half a century. They send it with their actions: They don’t want to live next to or send their children to school with black or brown people, historians say. Then there are those who thought Trump’s comments about both sides having issues when it comes to racial hatred. Trump’s ‘many sides’ response, though, wasn’t that abnormal in the context of US history, wrote Blake. It used to be the norm for white political leaders to draw a moral equivalence between racists and those who suffered from their acts of brutality, historians say. Trump’s comments were spot on for anyone paying attention. Obama had stirred up racial tensions in America to the point that even Black people were saying he was doing it. Then Blake decided to list a third group. Many voted for Trump because they liked the persona he cultivated as the star of ‘The Apprentice, he continued. Reality TV rewards characters who say rude and reprehensible things, characters are often cast as racial stereotypes, and those who provoke the most chaos get the most attention, says Joy Lanzendorfer, author of the Vice article, ‘How Reality TV Made Donald Trump President. To do that would demonstrate the hypocrisy of his article. Finally, there are those that Blake says look the other way. If you want to know why those white racists now feel so emboldened, it may help to look at all the ordinary people around you, your neighbors, your family members, your leaders, Blake wrote. Mr. Blake might also wonder how he is emboldening the racism of those in his own community. Courtesy of Freedom Outpost Tim Brown is an author and Editor at FreedomOutpost.com, SonsOfLibertyMedia.com, GunsInTheNews.com and TheWashingtonStandard.com. He is husband to his more precious than rubies wife, father of 10 mighty arrows, jack of all trades, Christian and lover of liberty. He resides in the U.S. occupied Great State of South Carolina. Tim is also an affiliate for the Joshua Mark 5 hybrid semi-automatic rifle.
President Donald Trump once left his son, Donald Trump Jr., stranded on a tarmac after he was five minutes late for a flight, the presidents first wife Ivana Trump wrote in her new book "Raising Trump." Ivana referenced the anecdote when describing a key feature of Donald and the rest of the Trump family that she learned when she and the future president first began dating. " The entire Trump clan arrived exactly on time," she wrote. " I learned early on that they were punctual to an extreme. For them, on time meant five minutes early." " When Donald arrived in a boardroom, or took his seat on an airplane and the door closed, that was that," she continued. " If you werent on the inside, the meeting or the flight would start without you. Donald once left Don Jr. standing on the tarmac for being five minutes late to the airport." Join the conversation about this story » NOW WATCH: Roger Stone explains what Trump has in common with Richard Nixon See Also: SEE ALSO: McConnell gives strongest hint yet that GOP should gut the biggest weapon Democrats have to halt Trumps judicial nominees
Vice President Biden defended Hillary Clinton’s decision to use a private email server as secretary of state in an interview Thursday with Face the Nation moderator John Dickerson. Dickerson asked Biden about a lesson from his Grandfather Finnegan: Public servants are obliged to level with everybody, whether or not they’ll like what he, the public servant, has to say. He asked the vice president, Do you think that applies to Hillary Clinton’s dealing with this private server that she set up? Well, I think it’s a combination of a couple of things, Biden replied. One, I don’t think she understood the gravity of setting it up. She thought it was, ‘This is okay to do.’ Clinton has said she set up her private server for the sake of convenience, but she has since acknowledged that it was a mistake and that she would use the government system if she had to do it over again. Biden further suggested that Clinton may be a bit battle-scarred from her long time in the public eye, and he said that may have contributed to her initial clumsy response to the email controversy. This woman has been so battered over 30 years, Biden explained. I think then when faced with, ‘This is a problem,’ I think instead of just cutting it and dealing with it immediately, there’s always an inclination to overthink it. The vice president also weighed in on his own future after his time in the Obama administration. Everything from this issue of violence against women, to income inequality, to the cancer ‘moonshot,’ I’m gonna devote the rest of my life to this. I have been so proud of being involved in public service that I’m not sure exactly how I’m gonna do it, he added, other than the structure of [the] American political system. When Dickerson asked Biden what he’ll do on his final day in office, the vice president replied, What I’m going to do is go home and begin to figure out what I do for the rest of my life. More of Dickerson’s interview with the vice president will air Sunday.
and his wife, Jane Sanders have hired prominent defense attorneys amid an FBI investigation concerning possible bank fraud, according to CBS News and Politico Magazine. The investigation centers on a loan that Jane Sanders secured to expand Burlington College when she was its president. Jane Sanders allegedly distorted school donor levels in a 2010 loan application for $10 million from Peoples United Bank to buy 33 acres of land for the school, which shut down in 2016. Bernie Sanders told the Washington Post that the investigation would clear his wife of any wrongdoing. Rich Cassidy has reportedly been hired to represent Bernie Sanders, while high-profile Washington defense attorney Larry Robbins is reportedly representing Jane Sanders.
Hillary Clinton was boring and exceptionally well-prepared. Donald Trump was exciting but embarrassingly undisciplined. He began with his strongest argument — that the political class represented by her has failed us and it’s time to look to a successful dealmaker for leadership — and kept to it pretty well for the first 20 minutes. Then due to the vanity and laziness that led him to think he could wing the most important 95 minutes of his life, he lost the thread of his argument, he lost control of his temper and he lost the perspective necessary to correct these mistakes as he went. Methodically and carefully, Hillary Clinton took over. Her purpose was to show she was rational and policy-driven, the kind of person who could be trusted to handle a careful and delicate job with prudence and sobriety — and that he was none of these things. By the end of the 95 minutes, Trump was reduced to a sputtering mess blathering about Rosie O’Donnell and about how he hasn’t yet said the mean things about Hillary that he is thinking. Most important, he set ticking time bombs for himself over the next six weeks. As she hammered him on his tax returns, he handed her an inestimable gift by basically saying he pays no federal taxes despite his billions — and moreover, that if he had done so, it would have been squandered anyway. By the end of the 95 minutes, Trump was reduced to a sputtering mess blathering about Rosie O’Donnell and about how he hasn’t yet said the mean things about Hillary that he is thinking. That’s not going to go away, nor is her suggestion that his refusal to release his returns is the result of his either not being as rich as he says or not being as charitable as he claims. Clinton quoted him saying in 2006 that he hoped for a housing meltdown because it would provide buying opportunities and thereby goaded him into saying that’s called business, by the way. To which she quickly replied that 9 million people lost their jobs and 5 million lost their homes in the housing meltdown he was so excited about. His reply to Hillary’s recitation of the fact he’d begun his career settling a Justice Department lawsuit about racial discrimination in Trump housing was that there was no admission of guilt, which is the sort of thing the villain said at the end of LA Law and sounded no better in real life. Even when he could have taken her down, he was so incompetent he didn’t go for it. A question about cybersecurity was the perfect opportunity to hammer Clinton on her outrageous mishandling of classified information. Instead, he went into a bizarre digression in which he alternately wondered whether his son Barron might grow up to become a hacker and defended Vladimir Putin from the accusation Russia had tapped into the Democratic National Committee’s emails (which the FBI says almost certainly happened). That has to count as the biggest choke of his political life. By the time the last 15 minutes rolled around, he was reduced to yammering about Rosie O’Donnell being mean to him and Hillary running mean commercials about him and praising himself because there are some really terrible things he could have said about Hillary but hasn’t. By this point, even his smart closing zinger — she has experience but it’s bad experience — was buried inside a weird word salad that reduced its effectiveness to almost nil. His supporters should be furious with him, and so should the public in general. By performing this incompetently, by refusing to prepare properly for this exchange, by not learning enough to put meat on the bones of his populist case against Clinton, he displayed nothing but contempt for the people who have brought him this far — and for the American people who are going to make this momentous decision on Nov. 8.
Medical science is constantly making cancer breakthroughs, however there’s an extensive process to bring treatments to the public. After making a discovery in the lab and performing tests, there are human clinical trials that require oversight by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) before approval. That being said, there are some promising new treatments (with some currently still in the investigational stages) targeting cancer, and they could prove valuable to millions of patients in the U.S. and beyond in the future. Here are six experimental cancer treatments that are catching attention from the medical world… 1. Hyperthermia Therapy BestMedicalDegrees.com outlines this experimental use of heat to target tumors. This technique can zero in on specific areas or heat the whole body, which will break down protein cells within a tumor and cause them to die, notes the source. While the treatment can potentially blast away existing cells, it could also help prevent new ones from forming. Hyperthermia Therapy is very exciting because, if it turns out to be a viable treatment, this will destroy the cancerous tumors from the inside out and hinder its ability to infect more healthy cells, adds the source. Cellular Adoptive Immunotherapy Also called adoptive cell transfer, the experimental technique aims to improve the ability of a patient’s natural T-cells (lymphocytes for immunity) to fight cancer, according to the National Cancer Institute. There are variations of this treatment, and the first use of it targeted metastatic melanoma, which can spread quickly through the body. Modified T-cells are also being looked at to treat other solid tumors as well as hematologic cancers (cancers of the blood), it adds. Molecularly Targeted Therapy ABC News says in an article that this therapy consists of drugs that are aimed at destroying only specific cancer cells, without negatively affecting healthy cells as many existing treatments do. Thus, people taking the drugs too often suffer horrible side effects on top of whatever havoc the cancer itself is already wreaking, notes the source. ABC says the leading drug in this new therapy is called Glivec (or STI571). It is designed to treat a specific form a leukemia called chronic myeloid leukemia, which has about 7,0 new cases per year in the U.S., adds the source. Doctors are extremely hopeful that the drug could provide a model for similar drugs to treat cancers affecting many thousands more people, it notes. TNFR2-targeting Antibodies The National Cancer Institute detailed a potential new cancer therapy in early 2017, which looks to target ovarian cancer cells. The basics are that tumor cells express a protein called TNFR2, which can prevent a patient’s natural immune system from attacking a tumor. Researchers have developed new antibodies that target TNFR2, as well as having the ability to kill ovarian cancer cells, thus killing two birds with one stone, notes the source. The team found that ovarian cancer cells express an abnormal level of TNFR2 that can promote tumor growth – and the source points out other types of cancers, such as colon and kidney cancer, also show unusual TNFR2 production. Tumor Treating Fields This therapy, which the American Brain Tumor Association said was recently approved by the FDA for glioblastoma (an aggressive brain cancer), usually follows surgery and radiation therapy, adds the source. It involves ceramic discs called transducer arrays to deliver electromagnetic energy to the scalp. These electrical fields exert selective toxicity in proliferating cells thereby halting cell division and destroying the cancer cells, notes the source. While the treatment is used in conjunction with oral chemotherapy drugs for glioblastoma (GBM), it can be used on its own to target recurrent (returning) GBM when other options have been exhausted, according to the source. Virus Therapy Usually, having a virus is a bad thing. However, this therapy essentially involves introducing a virus to cancer cells that leave healthy cells alone, notes StandUp2Cancer.org. The virus only seeks out cancer cells due to their genetic mutation that normal cells don’t have, it explains. One treatment in particular is called Reolysin, developed by a Canadian biotechnology company, notes the source. The site notes that almost 300-patients with various forms of cancer in Canada, the U.S. and the U.K. have been treated with this therapy, which infects cancer cells and causes them to explode. Apparently, side effects (such as a low-grade fever) are a lot milder than those associated with chemotherapy and radiation, it adds.
Metal Man is the easiest second easiest third easiest Robot Master from Mega Man 2, AKA the Best Mega Man game ever. Dr. Wily made Metal Man for combat purposes. But since Wily is stupid enough to model Metal Man after Cut Man, Metal Man is weak to the Mega Buster. He is now figuring out his revenge alongside Quick Man against Mega Man (And Air Man). Metal Mans real name was Harper Jose, a Hispanic dentist. Metal Man, although the coolest ever Robot Master, literally cant beat Air Man, due to Air Man being immune to uber weapons. Interestingly, Metal Man and Shadow Man are very similar, as they are the coolest Robot Masters in their respective games (although Metal Man is arguable, given the majority of RMs in 2 are awesome), weak to their own weapons, which are cutter weapons made of metal, and neither of their weapons can touch Air Man and are strong against Bubble Man.
Writing in the Yorkshire Post, Sir Bernard Ingham warned Donald Trump that Russian President Vladimir Putin would not be contained by sweet talk. He also told the President-elect he was America’s people’s idea of the best of a bad job. Donald Trump was asked to show some humility by Sir Bernard Ingham The president-elect has a chance to bring about world peace Sir Bernard, who was the former Prime Minister’s press secretary from 1979 to 1990 warned Mr Trump could not succeed by ignoring US debt and hoping to bomb Islamic terrorism out of existence. He wrote: You need to convince people that what is good for Americans would be good for them, too. Sir Ingham was an aide to PM Thatcher You will only do that if America becomes happier with itself. You will be considered a great president if, at the end of your first term, the world is more stable and prosperous than you found it on taking the oath.
President Obama wont just be handing over the keys to the Oval Office in January — he will also be relinquishing the all-important @POTUS Twitter account. Obama is the first sitting president to join Twitter, making this transition unprecedented. However, theres already a plan for what happens next. On January 20, 2017, when either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton takes office, theyll gain access to the @POTUS account and its 11 million followers, according to Twitter. The National Archives and Records Administration will also archive other Twitter handles, including @WhiteHouse, @VP, and @PressSec, according to Twitter. One big question mark is what will happen to the @FLOTUS Twitter account. While its also included in the transition, its possible Twitter may need to change that to @FMOTUS come January 20 if we elect our first female president.
News Modal Trigger Getty Images Alex Jones and his conspiracy-obsessed website InfoWars prompted a series of disruptions at pro-Clinton rallies this week by offering $5,0 to anyone who can be heard shouting Bill Clinton is a rapist. During an event in Greensboro, NC, on Tuesday night, President Obama was bombarded by protesters who donned shirts with slogans accusing the ex-president of rape. Those folks are auditioning for a reality show, Obama joked at the hecklers. If you can’t get your own rally, don’t come mess up somebody else’s rally. Jones, an avid Donald Trump supporter, has been offering up the bounty to Bill-bashers for about a week now. His supporters have since been spotted at Hillary events in Miami and Wisconsin, where the former president was targeted during an appearance in Milwaukee Saturday. The typically-jovial Arkansan looked visibly rattled when a protester shouted rapist at him during a discussion about the billionaire candidate’s position on global warming. No one can dispute the fact, Clinton said about climate change, after which the person in the audience added: That you’re a rapist! After several uncomfortable seconds, the former commander-in-chief began laughing and smiling. They had a bad day yesterday, he said, in reference to Friday’s video leak in which Trump was caught speaking crudely about women. It was not clear if Jones has actually made good on his $5,0 offer. An InfoWars spokesman told The Post on Wednesday night that at least 13 successful participants had so far come forward to claim their $5,0 prize. However, many people who participated had still not contacted the site for their payouts as of 9:30 p.m. The spokesman added that none of the protesters had been paid yet and that checks were set to be mailed at the end of the week. According to the website, the Bill Clinton Rape offer will be running through the election, or until $100,0 in prizes have been given out.
President Donald Trump walks across the South Lawn as he arrives at the White House in Washington, Sunday, Jan. 7, 2018, after traveling from Camp David, Md. (AP Harnik) President Trump fired back at North Korea’s taunt, claiming that his nuclear button is bigger and better than Kim Jong Un’s. The administration also cut aid to Pakistan, citing its protection of terrorists, and Trump took aim at former White House strategist Steve Bannon, after the release of a bombshell book.
As seen on Watters World More Scandalous Than We Can Fathom: Huckabee Goes Off on Clinton Foundation RPT: Aggressive Protesters Push, Spit on Trump Supporters at Fundraiser Trump: Obama Ought to Get Off the Golf Course and Go to Louisiana Flood Zone On last nights "Watters World" special, Jesse Watters dropped by New York Citys Dominican Day Parade to learn about Dominican culture and to ask revelers about Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and the 2016 race. " Are you guys out here celebrating or are you just looking for girls?" My vote is for Hillary Clinton, because I think she represents women. " To be honest, Trump doesnt know how to make up his mind. " Watch more the "Watters World" clip above. Low-Level Simpleton: Thief Leaves Nasty Note After Stealing Mans Trump Sign
The hotel security guard wounded in the Las Vegas mass shooting has been arrested as an accomplice to that event. Fake news web sites capitalized on the tragedy of the 1 October 2017 mass shooting event in Las Vegas by proffering various unfounded conspiracy theories as news, particularly those positing that a second shooter took part in the carnage in additional to the one who rained bullets onto a concert crowd from a room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel. In particular, fake news sites focused on Jesus Campos, the Mandalay Bay security guard who reportedly went to investigate a door alarm on the 32nd floor and was wounded in the leg when the shooter fired an estimated 200 bullets through his hotel room door. Those sites initially reported (without any evidence) that Campos was not an innocent victim wounded in the course of his duties, but was actually suspected of being an accomplice in the mass shooting. Jesus Campos had originally been praised for his apparent heroics on October 1st, as he supposedly rushed to Paddock’s suite, was shot in the upper thigh through the door, and continued to help get people to safety despite his wounds. However, FBI officials involved in the investigation now believe he was an accomplice of Paddock’s, and was involved in the initial shooting as a second gunman from the other broken window in Paddock’s 32nd-floor room. According to a senior FBI official, authorities became suspicions by the extreme amount of gunpowder residue found on Campos’ hands and inconsistencies in his timeline of events. We believe he killed [the shooter], shot holes through the door and his own arm to produce physical evidence for his cover story, then went and lay next to the elevator, the FBI official told CNN. Although some confusion remains, as of this writing, about the precise timing of when Campos was wounded relative to the onset of the larger mass shooting rampage, law enforcement has not at any time suggested that Campos was an accomplice to that mass shooting, much less taken him into custody on that basis. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Here’s one thing we can all say for certain regarding the latest twist of the Hillary Clinton email scandal: James Comey, who was once regarded as the Eliot Ness of law enforcement, a modern day straight-shooter impenetrable to political pressure, will instead leave the office of FBI chief as something closer to Inspector Clouseau. It was bizarre, these people tell me, because the whole sordid Hillary Clinton email saga should never have gotten this far; Comey launched an investigation that developed far more evidence than anyone in law enforcement ever believed existed that Hillary Clinton broke the laws involving the receipt of sensitive government documents over an easily hacked private email server while she was President Obama’s secretary of state. My sources in law enforcement were pretty convinced Comey would do the right thing and recommend charges to the Obama Justice Department, despite its political consequence, because the evidence was there and Comey was supposed to be so non political. He was a Republican appointed by Democrat Barack Obama to run a quasi independent investigative arm of the DOJ because he had a fierce independent streak. He famously brought white-collar cases during the pro-business Bush Administration as the US Attorney for the Southern District. Later in a senior position in the Bush DOJ, he refused to approve aspects of the governments domestic surveillance program. But there appears to be limits to Comeys independence, these same people now concede. In July, Comey came up with an odd excuse for not recommending criminal charges against Clinton: He couldn’t develop enough evidence that Clinton intended to break the law under the standard of gross negligence. It was such an odd set rationale that Comey laid out for not bringing that case that most people listening to him at first thought he was laying out his reasoning to bring charges, as he explained one reckless move after another from Clinton in establishing the private server and private emails for handing all her government business. Indeed he initially laid out such a convincingly damning case against Clinton that markets began to crash for much of Comey’s tortured remarks as investors initially came to the conclusion that Hillary Clinton would be indicted and someone as crazy as Donald Trump could become president. That didn’t happen, of course, as Comey would explain -- and the markets that day recovered as he announced how Hillary Clinton may have done something criminal even if she never intended to do it and as a result he was giving her pass. Note to reader: Markets will take criminal over crazy any day of the week. Recall, Attorney General Loretta Lynch just had a private meeting with former president and possible first husband Bill Clinton just days before Comey handed in his verdict, which added to the fetid smell of the FBI chiefs decision. Then there was the evidence: Remember, Clinton has never given much of a rationale for using only a private email account via her own server to send and receive state department related emails other than its convenience, which should never outweigh national security. Meanwhile, career agents argued her intent was inherent in simple creation of the private email server and exclusive use of a private email is supposed to be verboten under various laws including the Espionage Act. Her supporters point out that others like Bush Administration Secretary of State Colin Powell used a private email account, but that omits the fact that Powell’s email was from a computer he kept at the state department and he used it before the document laws were beefed up post 9-11. He also didn’t go through the process of creating his own easily hacked private server. Another difference: Clinton used her private account exclusively, and Powell didn’t. That’s probably because Powell didn’t have a reason to have a private server that he could control and erase its contents; He didn’t have a private charity that would do business with the federal government and would become a private enrichment vehicle, as Hillary and her former-president husband Bill have in the form of the Clinton Foundation. Now we have Comey possibly looking to make amends with his troops, possibly looking to cover his rear end, definitely looking incompetent, because of all people Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former Congressman, and soon-to-be ex husband of Hillary Clinton confident, Huma Abedin. FBI agents, investigating Weiner’s alleged depravity with an underage girl, stumbled across some more Hillary-related emails from Abedin, and as we learned Friday an investigation that was "closed" is now suddenly open. I say closed in quotes to underscore the murkiness of FBI investigative procedures. Cases are rarely officially closed and even when they are the bureau will leave the door open that additional information would re-ignite their efforts. If you think this story could get any more surreal consider the following: law enforcement sources tell Fox Business that Weiner could soon cooperate with the Feds, and that can’t be good news for his wife or her boss. ( Now facing a possible prison term for alleged dealings with an underage girl he has even more incentive to cooperate against his soon-to-be ex-wife and the Clintons. I cant tell you whether the new emails will reach Comeys standard for gross negligence, but thats really besides the point. The country could have been spared this spectacle if he had just done the right thing in July and recommended a charge against Clinton. Then the Democrats could have regrouped and given the nomination to Bernie Sanders or Joe Biden or someone who doesnt stand a chance of being indicted or impeached if elected. Yes if Hillary Clinton manages to win, she will be a sitting duck for every GOP investigative committee, particularly as the odds grow the Republicans will now keep the House and possibly the Senate. If you thought the last eight years were contentious, you aint seen nothing yet.
The problem is that the Democrats have something going for them that those on the other side simply don’t seem to be able to do. They know how to manipulate the Republicans in office to give the left everything they want. The military taught me at an early age that one must know their enemy. This adage does not simply pertain to combat either. Not only does this allow you to empathize with them, but it also shows you the way to gain the tactical advantage. This book is one of the best books on strategy ever written. It is not intentional at this point, just something that has been ingrained into me. I try very hard to be honest regardless of which side of the political aisle you may be on. When someone does something wrong, I will call them out for it. Typically, this is very easy to do with the Democrats, as virtually everything about their platform goes against what I believe the Constitution stands for. With that being said, I must also recognize when my enemy is gaining the advantage through manipulation; while I may not agree with their methods, I have to respect and be impressed with their results. Things didn’t improve at the state level, with the number of Democratic governors going from 28 to 16 and a total loss of 958 legislative seats. No compatible source was found for this video. A great example is when Sally Brown, DNC Chair hopeful, stated that, My job is to listen and be a voice and shut other white people down when they want to interrupt…We have to teach [others] how to communicate, how to be sensitive and how to shut their mouths if they are white. Or even when Howard Dean said that hate speech wasn’t protected speech. However, what was originally funny to me quickly curdled into shock. I would never have believed that this was possible. The Republicans own both houses of Congress and had the overwhelming support of the American people. Now, in a continuing show of their exceptional ability to control the government even when not in power, they have managed to have special council appointed to look into the Russian involvement in the election cycle. I hate to say it, but my hat is off to you, Democratic party. The answer is simply that they actually believe in their cause. Wanting an America with less freedom and constricted liberties does not sell well. This is not true for the Republicans, who clearly covet power over the interest of the country. They are so worried about keeping their control that they would turn on their own principals to protect themselves. They are sitting by and watching out of fear that they will be blamed. The sad thing is that in this case, this was the banner that the American people elected their officials to turn into reality. They are looking at a complete shakeup of their party. I remember right before retiring telling my son that there comes a point in every career when you are no longer able to bend and adapt. You have grown too complacent in your ways and view new ideas and thoughts as a threat to your existence. I am pretty sure that at this point, what the party needs is an extinction-level event, and the Democrats are more than willing to lead us to that well.
Appearing on NBC’s Meet the Press, former Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway called on President Obama and Secretary Hillary Clinton to calm protests that have broken out in opposition to Donald Trump’s election as president. Referencing thousands of protesters outside Trump Tower in Manhattan, chanting Not my president, Conway said I think it’s time for them to give this man a chance, too. According to Conway, President-Elect Trump has already addressed the protesters and he will continue to address them. He’s going to be the president of all people. But, she added, This is a two-way street. It’s time really for President Obama and Secretary Clinton to say to these protesters: ‘This man is our president,’ Conway continued. Conway cited what she claimed was media hypocrisy, saying that if Hillary Clinton had won and if there were two Donald Trump protesters somewhere, people would be freaking out that his supporters were not accepting the election results. Speculation has already begun about what President-Elect Trump’s administration will look like, especially who will serve as his Chief of Staff in the White House. Conway commented on reports RNC Chair Reince Priebus and Trump Campaign CEO Steve Bannon are the top candidates being considered for the post. While she said both will have big roles in a Trump administration, she particularly highlighted what she sees as Bannon’s qualifications for the job. I think having worked with him and known him, Steve Bannon, in this particular campaign, was the general. And he is much more the Goldman Sachs managing partner and much more the naval officer, I think, than people realize. Conway denied that Bannon, who also served as editor of conservative site Breitbart, would come to Washington to proverbially burn it down. Finally, Conway commented on recent reports that Hillary Clinton partially blamed her loss in the election on FBI Director James Comey. While calling Secretary Clinton a woman of enormous gifts and talents, Conway said I just can’t believe it’s always somebody else’s fault. Sometimes you just have to take a look in the mirror and reflect on what went wrong.
Seal poses before signing copies of his album "7" at Barnes &amp; Noble at The Grove on November 18, 2015 in Los Angeles, California. ( Matt Images) Singer Seal is calling out critics for suggesting he attacked Oprah Winfrey over her relationship with Harvey Weinstein, insisting he was speaking out against hypocrisy in Hollywood. The Kiss From a Rose star came under fire earlier this week after he took to Instagram to question Oprah’s friendship with the disgraced producer, writing. Oh I forgot, that’s right… you’d heard the rumours but you had no idea he was actually serially assaulting young stary-eyed (sic) actresses who in turn had no idea what they were getting into. My bad, he snapped, adding a meme featuring Oprah and Harvey at events together. But now the singer insists he wasn’t trying to discredit Winfrey. Now let’s get straight to it, he says in a new video posted on Facebook. Let me start by saying that I have an enormous amount of respect for everything that Oprah has achieved and contributed in her life. What I re-posted was not an attack on Oprah at all, he adds. She just happened to be the person photographed with the pig (Weinstein) in the picture. No, what I re-posted was commentary on the hypocritical and double standard nature and behaviour of Hollywood… In his message, Seal also slams actress Stacey Dash for tweeting a link to an article about Seal’s original post and writing, Ouch, he does make a good point though. And Stacey Dash, keep my name out of your mouth, he continues. Do not re-tweet, re-quote anything I have said in order to reinforce your self-hating agenda… Again, this was not an attack against Oprah. This was an observation of the toxic nature of Hollywood and I believe that a conscious people are a progressive people… Oprah addressed the Weinstein sex scandal on her Facebook account late last year, writing: I’ve been processing the accounts of Harvey Weinstein’s hideous behavior and haven’t been able to find the words to articulate the magnitude of the situation. More than 80 women, including Mira Sorvino, Rose McGowan, Ashley Judd, and Gwyneth Paltrow, have now accused the disgraced studio boss of inappropriate behaviour, assault, rape, and misconduct. Weinstein maintains that while he may have behaved badly in the past he has never forced a woman to have sex with him.
It is painfully obvious that the communism lovers in our institutions of higher education have had the run of the asylum and wreaked havoc. Many liberal talking heads have made a big deal out of the supposed demographic wave facing Republicans and conservatives as the nation morphs into a more diverse population. Growth rates amongst minorities have begun to exceed those of whites. While the demographic trend may be true, the pre-conceived outcome is anything but. First of all, many minority groups have historically held conservative values. Although this trend has diminished to some extent, due to the brainwashing and self-imposed victimization of minority youth, it has not gone away entirely. Hispanics go to church; they believe in hard work. No compatible source was found for this video. Many minorities are starting to see this. The election of President Donald J. Trump has been a game changer when considering the political support for one side of the spectrum. The white, working-class, middle-American will be missing for a long time in the Democratic Party. The overt racism of Black Lives Matter and other minority hate groups has further cemented this condition. Trump sure has delivered, on his promises that is. Jobs are being created; economic optimism is soaring; plants are opening; coal mines are being dug; and business investment is growing again. The business climate is only going to get better. Americans have seen the results of a decade of socialist, liberal, culturally Marxist policies, and they don’t like it. But most of all, the policies don’t work. The younger generation, who is now moving to college age and called Generation Z, have seen all of this happen. They have seen their parents lose their dignity. There will be no where else to attribute this change in circumstances except to Trump and conservative policies. America is becoming one big learning lab for its younger citizens. It is not okay for speech to be restricted anywhere in our educational process. The pendulum is slowly starting to swing the other way. There was a study released recently which delved into the political beliefs and tendencies of Generation Z as they move to take the place of the Millennial generation. This is a stunning revelation and I believe it is due to the factors I have outlined above. Perhaps it is deeper and more simple than that. Perhaps they have seen that the Democratic Party — the Left, the ‘progressives,’ the cultural Marxists, the racists, whatever you want to call this rag-tag opposition to President Trump and Make America Great Again — have nothing to offer that will make their lives more successful or fulfilling. Yes, I believe that America is about to experience a generation of success and prosperity, driven by a reawakening of conservative principles. The young manager of the place was an Indian man. The conversation quickly turned to politics and he guardedly asked me my opinions on Trump and Hillary — I gave them to him.
President Trump gives a thumbs-up after speaking to reporters before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House. ( AP Walsh) (Newser) – President Trump defended Michael Flynn on Monday by invoking Hillary Clinton. While speaking to reporters, the president said he felt "very badly for Flynn" and declared that the FBI treated the former national security adviser much more harshly than it did Clinton. " Hillary Clinton lied many times to the FBI," said Trump, per Politico. " He specifically referenced Clintons grilling by the FBI over her email server in July 2015. " It was the most incredible thing anyones ever seen," said Trump. " She lied many times, nothing happened to her. Flynn lied and its like they ruined his life. As USA Today points out, former FBI chief James Comey testified to the contrary before Congress. " We have no basis to conclude she lied to the FBI," Comey said in July 2016, when he still ran the agency. Theres no such gray area on Flynn: He admitted lying to the FBI in his plea agreement. ( Controversy over a presidential tweet on the subject continues.)
Not too long ago we wrote about KFC following 11 people on Twitter: The five Spice Girls and six guys named Herb (including UFC referee Herb Dean). If you missed the article, check it out here. Well the gentleman that noticed this (@edgette22 on Twitter) has now been rewarded. You might think that the obvious choice would be a life supply of KFC right? What do you know, that’s Edge being given a piggyback ride by the Colnel himself! A work of art yes, a strange gift… also yes. But wow KFC’s marketing team are inventive. People on Twitter went mad for this of course! Edge had also been the victim of some controversy surrounding the whole debacle, so this will come as a welcome treat.
Shoutout To This Father-Son Duo Who Avenged Their ’s Death By Kidnapping And Kicking The Shit Out Of Her Heroin Hookup Until He Named Names Want to advertise with Turtleboy? Email us at Turtleboysports@gmail.com for more information. Trashlive: Hours after a 32-year-old woman from Western Massachusetts fatally overdosed in Rhode Island on Monday, her father and brother were arrested in what police are calling a kidnapping and attack on her suspected heroin hookup. The man was able to escape the slow-moving van on Baldwin Hill Road, whereupon both Lombardis allegedly followed him out and continued the attack, which residents of the street observed and reported to police, who intervened in a quick response. I don’t normally condone vigilantism, but at the same time, we’re living in a state filled to the brim with Deval Patrick judges that let scumbags out onto the street time and time again. Some times you just gotta do what you gotta do. Big shoutout to this father and son duo who realized that this was the only way they were going to receive any sort of satisfaction. There’s no way the idiot they kidnapped ever saw it coming either. There’s a reason it was just the son that was supposed to show up. The Dad looks like he done killed 4-5 people before. I don’t fuck with guys named Ralph who wear shirts like that. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again – there is no one more gutless than a heroin dealer. Pot dealers are great, and coke dealers I don’t have strong opinions on. If you can’t stand by your product then you’re a piece of shit. There has never, ever, ever been a positive affect of heroin. You are selling poison to stupid and vulnerable people who don’t know any better. Granted the guy they kicked the shit out of wasn’t the actual dealer. But he knew who the dealer was and it was time to name names. This is the only way to get that information. Big props for doing it mafia style too by using a van, and telling the idiot they picked up that they were gonna magically fix his debt problems. The only surprising part about this story is that they got caught in Egremont. Egremont is easily top 5 places to dump a body in Massachusetts. Nestled next to Alford, Mount Washington (there’s a town called Mount Washington), New York state, and the metropolis of Great Barrington, there’s no reason for anyone to ever go to Egremont. The fact that this nudnik jumped out of the van and people were actually there to see it is nothing less than a statistical miracle. I don’t wanna say that father and son are heroes, but they kind of just revolutionized the opiate epidemic. If you sell heroin, you no longer get a free pass from some SJW judge. You get old school punishment from the family. At least that might present a detriment for potential dealers down the road. We urge you to support the following local businesses. They provide terrific services for the community!
Published March 12, 2015 BREAKING: Two police officers reportedly were shot early Thursday outside the police department in Ferguson, Mo. amid protests that followed the resignation of the town’s police chief. The shooting was first reported by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Al Eickhoff told the paper that he did not believe the officers were from his department and had no information on the extend of their injuries. The Post-Dispatch reported, citing a police source, that one of the officers was from St. Louis County, while the other was from Webster Groves, another St. Louis suburb located south of Ferguson. KTVI reported that as many as 200 protesters had gathered outside the police station to demand more changes in the city’s government after the resignation of Police Chief Tom Jackson Wednesday afternoon. The station reported that at least one person had been arrested and that protesters were blocking traffic on nearby Florissant Road. The Associated Press reported that the crowd had appeared to be dwindling when the shots were heard. The Missouri Highway Patrol told the AP that troopers were heading to the scene. Jackson was the sixth Ferguson employee to resign or be fired after a Justice Department report cleared white former officer Darren Wilson of civil rights charges in the shooting of black 18-year-old Michael Brown this past August, but found a profit-driven court system and widespread racial bias in the city police department. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Department of Homeland Security and counter-terrorism officials are in contact with Spanish authorities in the aftermath of the terrorist attack that killed at least 13 people and left more than 80 injured on Thursday at a busy tourist area in Barcelona, Spain, according to DHS officials who spoke with Circa. DHS spokeswoman Anna Franko, said that the acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke has been briefed on the situation in Barcelona, Spain and remains in contact with U.S. allies in Europe in lieu of the ongoing investigation. A van slammed its way through crowds of people in the well-known area of Las Ramblas avenue. The area was reportedly crowded with locals and tourists who frequent the restaurants and shops in the historic district. The above message in Spanish was posted on a confirmed ISIS media page on the secure Telegram app. Islamic State praised the attack on their official Telegram account and have claimed responsibility in statement carried on its Aamaq news agency. Some U.S. Law enforcement officials say the attack bears similar hallmarks of past attacks and the groups of has reportedly called for using vehicles as primary weapons against civilians, followed by secondary attacks using weapons against bystanders. Catalan Interior Minster Joaquim Forn confirmed at a press conference that 13 people were killed and more than 50 injured. Catalan police are treating the incident as a terror attack and have sealed off the area, according to reports. Metro and train stations are also closed at the request of city officials and emergency services. Police at the scene in Barcelona after the van crash. The situation is being closely monitored by Duke, who is being kept apprised of developments, Franko said. " DHS has reached out to Spanish authorities, and the Department is standing by to support our allies as they respond to and recover from this horrendous attack," Franko added. " Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and those affected. We will not let terrorism become the new normal. Instead, such acts of violence only harden our resolve to fight back against violent extremists, bring them to justice, and dismantle their networks. DHS will continue its efforts to raise the baseline of our security across the board and to work with foreign partners to help them do the same." FBI is not currently commenting on the situation as it is fluid and the Spanish authorities are leading the investigation. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson weighs in on the attack in Spain. State Department officials did not immediately respond for comment, as to whether or not Spanish authorities have asked for assistance from the United States to help with the terror investigation. Spanish authorities continue to remain vigilant and local authorities have asked people in the Las Ramblas area of the city, where the attack took place to remain on alert, according to reports. RELATED STORIES: 13 are dead and more than 50 injured in the Barcelona attack a government official said Sen. Grassley says partisan lawsuits against President Trump should also implicate Hillary Clinton U.S. Ambassador to Israel asks organization to reconsider its opposition to McMaster and Tillerson
Eminem ignited a social media firestorm at the BET awards Tuesday with the release of a blistering rap on President Donald Trump. The recorded video shows the rapper in a parking garage freestyling on political controversies like the NFLs national anthem protests, Trumps proposed border wall and his international diplomacy. Warning: Explicit language in video below In one verse he rapped: "This is his form of , he gets an enormous he attacks the NFL, so we focus on of talking about Puerto Rico or gun reform for of these horrible tragedies and hes bored and would rather cause a Twitter storm with the Packers." In another: "But we better give Obama what we got in the office nows a kamikaze thatll probably cause a nuclear holocaust." Soon after "The Storm" was released, the video became a top trending topic on Twitter, racked up hundreds of thousands of views on YouTube and sparked reactions from multiple celebrities. LeBron James quoted his lyrics in a tweet: "Racism is the only thing hes Fantastic 4(fantastic for), cause thats how he gets his rock off, hes orange. Racism is the only thing hes Fantastic 4(fantastic for), cause thats how he gets his rock off, hes orange. 28BCWpy— LeBron James (@KingJames) October 11, 2017 In the video, Eminem also raised a fist in support of NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, whose decision to kneel during the anthem sparked the current controversy. In response, Kaepernick tweeted: "I appreciate you @Eminem." Ellen DeGeneres also tweeted her praise: "I (heart) @Eminem." There was no immediate reaction Tuesday from Trump or the White House press office.
Pentagon officials are used to looking for ISIS everywhere they can nowadays, and have found a security threat from them in the Caribbean, where ISIS obviously isn’t a huge thing, but where growing numbers of people trying to join ISIS are seen as a concerning trend. Marine General John Kelly, set to retire later this month, says that these small numbers of ISIS supporters are a particular risk, because in small nations like Trinidad and Tobago, they don’t have anything comparable to the US military or the TSA to combat ISIS. Gen. Kelly declared that just a few of these nuts can cause an awful lot of trouble down in the Caribbean, complaining many of the islands don’t even have proper militaries, let alone something like the US military, a leviathan that intervenes globally and rivals the scope off any in human history. ISIS issued a video for Trinidadian recruitment way back in 2015, showing a recruit from the island and his three young children calling on the island’s Muslim population to join the fight. About 5% of the island’s population is Muslim, or about 60,0 people. The indications are that Caribbean-wide ISIS recruitment was around 150 people, up from 100 the prior year. In reality, the threat here is much less about Trinidad not having a globe-hopping military, than that ISIS isn’t making such a big deal about recruits coming to Syria anymore, and is instead pressing them to launch attacks at home. This is particularly problematic for the US because many Caribbean islands are popular tourist destinations, and American tourists are a likely target.
Joel Angel Juarez Las Vegas Review-Journal @jajuarezphoto The readers of my column are well aware I’m not a fan of MGM CEO Jim Murren. I actually felt bad for MGM when this tragedy first happened. But could it have happened to any Vegas resort? Or were there factors at play that led to this property being chosen for this terrible mass murder? Murren was appointed by Barack Obama to the Homeland Security Council. From that perch, Murren had insider access to the detailed threats aimed at Vegas. What did he do to prepare and adequately safeguard his guests? Several MGM security guards and ex-security guards have called my radio show in recent days. One ex-MGM security guard called to say Murren’s first act in taking over Luxor and Mandalay Bay was to disarm most of the guards and declare MGM hotels gun-free zones. Maybe that’s why the shooter chose Mandalay Bay. Why has the timeline involving Mandalay Bay guard Jesus Campos changed so many times? Did he approach the shooter’s room before or after the mass murder started? Did the shooter choose a MGM property because VIP high roller clients were free to use service elevators, thereby avoiding scrutiny? Finally, was the CEO of MGM focused on his properties? Was the security of his customers a main priority? SEC records for September reveal more than $200 million in stock selloffs from MGM officers and directors. From July 31 to early September, Murren sold more than 80 percent of his MGM stock. This certainly paints the picture of a CEO with a lack of faith in his own company. Or did Murren have one foot out the door? Was he distracted and uninterested, perhaps making plans to leave? Was Murren focused on MGM security as a major terror attack was being planned at his property? Or was he too busy selling off his shares, at the right price, into the open market, without Wall Street noticing? MGM’s top executives and key board members also sold huge amounts of stock in September. In the past three months, according to SEC Form 4, MGM insiders sold off 6,387,163 shares. Guess how many those same insiders bought? Also in September, while MGM’s CEO and insiders were selling off huge amounts of their own company stock, MGM announced a billion-dollar stock buyback program. Talk about the world’s worst conflict of interest. Question: What if MGM had used that same $1 billion to upgrade security or hire twice as many security staff instead of to prop up its stock price while the CEO was selling? Contact Wayne Allyn Root at Wayne@ROOTforAmerica.com. Hear or watch the nationally syndicated WAR Now: The Wayne Allyn Root Show from 3 to 6 p.m. daily at 790 Talk Now and at 5 p.m. on Newsmax TV.
Chris Brown, 27, was stopped from a potential physical altercation by police at a charity basketball game on the anniversary of 9/11 (video below). The singer got into such a heated argument with someone in the stands that the cops were called in to intervene before the situation escalated any further. The incident occurred at the Power 106 Celebrity Basketball Game at USC, reports TMZ. Video footage shows Brown becoming visibly upset as he leans over the bench seats to argue with a spectator. The music was too loud to make out exactly what words were exchanged, but USC cops can be heard saying,  I don’t care who’s here, get it straight. Brown walked away twice but came back moments later each time to continue the quarrel, according to the Daily Mail. At one point, the R&amp;B singer was encircled by cops as he tried to explain the situation. Brown has become the latest high-profile star to join Colin Kaepernick’s national anthem protest against police brutality and racial inequality in America. Before the basketball game, Brown did not observe the anthem. Instead, Brown laughed with friends as he sat during the song’s performance. The anthem was sung by R&amp;B singer Tank, who asked the audience to stand in the wake of 9/11 and in respect for those who lost their lives in the September 2011 terrorist attacks. However, Brown applauded Tank at the end for his effort. Brown was arrested just last week after a standoff with police officers at his Tarzana home over allegations he threatened a woman with a gun. During the event, Brown posted videos on social media in which he denounced the police and said he was being unfairly demonized.
Barack Obama has shortened the sentence of whistleblower Chelsea Manning, She will be released on May 17, instead of remaining in military custody until 2045 as originally sentenced.
The German public have, as predicted, kept ahold of nurse. But it is the breakthrough of the AfD into the German Parliament that is causing headlines around the world. Of course the four-year old party’s electoral success is also unsurprising. Nevertheless, yesterday’s electoral breakthrough is stunning and the success of this four-year-old party is among other things now causing a predictable rash of 1930s analogies. Firstly by the fact that the mainstream political class has done something mad in recent years. As I recently explained at book-length, it is inevitable that things will get complicated when the people in charge of Europe make decisions as appalling as those Angela Merkel made in 2015. What she occasioned in unilaterally opening the continent’s doors to the world may have been humanitarian and may have had some good intentions. But it was also reckless, short-sighted and will cause severe issues for German society for generations to come. Most of that impact – including the daily reports of crime and sexual assault – never make it further than the German-language press, and often not even there. What are the public to do when their leaders and media behave like this? One idea is that the public shouldn’t have any choice and should be forced to keep voting for the same old parties anyway. This obviously suits the incumbents, and is best achieved by depicting any and all parties concerned about immigration – including the mass immigration which people across the political spectrum now say they acknowledge to have been an unrepeatable disaster – as Nazis, fascists and racists. The incumbent politicians and parties acknowledge they have made mistakes, promise not to repeat those mistakes but insist that anyone wishing to make them pay any political price must recognise that they are voting for a Fourth Reich. It’s a clever, cynical ploy, employed by politicians and much of the media across Germany even more than the UK. Their problem is that at some point the public recognise the ploy. And in particular a moment arrives when the spell-words used by the political mainstream begin to fail. Already terms like ‘racist’, ‘Nazi’, ‘far-right’ have been worn down almost everywhere in Europe. The few people who continue to claim that the public’s concerns are all racist are themselves the ones who now look ridiculous. All they do is ensure that the public care less and less about the words they are called. This has a follow-on problem which is especially worth pondering in Germany. This is among the problems that Merkel and co have now set up. The AfD’s platform and pronouncements require close and unbiased attention. This should include having their words and actions reported accurately. To her credit, Merkel – the great absorber of political difference – has said that she will work to bring back the people who voted AfD this weekend. This suggests that she might – just might – take what is essentially the second broad option for Europe’s political mainstream. That is to stop pretending that anything from a quarter to three-quarters of the general public across Europe are Nazi, fascist, racists who need to be reprogrammed, fought, denounced or ignored. Instead it is to recognise that the concerns of the public are concerns that should be addressed and remedied by the political mainstream. Which isn’t, surely, such a radical idea. We’ll see which path Germany now goes down. More than Germany’s politics will depend on it.
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** While North Korea dominated much of the news of late and the recent events in Charlottesville, VA have been the talk of the internet over the last couple of days, the recent revelation of the Memo that rocked Washington, which exposes the deep state subversion against President Trump and explaining the tactics being utilized, is being spun as crazy with the writer of the memo being labeled a nutcase by the MSM, who has converged on a narrative in a weak attempt at damage control. Not only was Higgins the the former director of strategic planning for the NSC, before being fired by Lt. Department of Defense defines Irregular Warfare in a 100 page document from 2007, in the following manner: Irregular warfare (IW) is defined as a violent struggle among state and nonstate actors for legitimacy and influence over the relevant populations. Meeting these challenges and combating this approach will require the concerted efforts of all available instruments of US national power. Influencing foreign governments and populations is a complex and inherently political activity. The USG will have to develop Whole of Government approaches to waging IW at the political, strategic, operational, and tactical levels. Other government agencies must build their capacity to operate in unstable or hostile environments. Revolutionary Hearing Aid Is Now Giving Free Fit &amp; Feel Samples Irregular warfare is about people, not platforms. IW depends not just on our military prowess, but also our understanding of such social dynamics as tribal politics, social networks, religious influences, and cultural mores. People, not platforms and advanced technology, will be the key to IW success. The joint force will need patient, persistent, and culturally savvy people to build the local relationships and partnerships essential to executing IW. MEMO THAT ROCKED THE NSC &amp; SENT THE MSM INTO DAMAGE CONTROL MODE The memo is titled POTUS &amp; Political Warfare, and starts off detail some background on the information campaigns designed to first undermine, then delegitimize and ultimately remove the President, calling it political warfare at an unprecedented level that is openly engaged in the direct targeting of a seated president through manipulation of the news cycle. Political Warfare has been described as propaganda in battledress. The effort directed at President Trump is executed along one overt, as well as two covert, lines of effort: • The overt line of effort is PUBLICITY. There are two covert lines of effort: PROPOGANDA and . o Propaganda is the deliberate direction, even manipulation, of information to secure a definite outcome. It is an attempt to direct the thinking of the recipient, without his conscious collaboration, into predetermined channels that are established in the Publicity line of effort. o Infiltration and subversion operate internal to the targeted organization in order to inform, target, coordinate, and amplifythe effects of the publicity and propaganda. Both operate to gather intelligence, obstruct legitimate courses of action, provide inside information, and leak sensitive information that undermines the leadership and suppresses the morale of friendly elements. The endgame is concealed and may involve illicit activities. As thcounter-state forms, a counter-elite of influential individual and key leaders within the target state will later facilitate the legitimacy and permanency of the new regime. On page #6 we see Political Warfare Executive – The Meaning, Techniques and Methods of Political Warfare, which accurately captures what we at ANP have been documenting and reporting on for years, including how the media is being used to deliberately push pseudo-realities, in a campaign to delegitimize President Trump, with preferred narratives including the Russia hacked the election, Obstruction of Justice, Hiding Collusion, and Putin Puppet. Meta-narratives are supported by an ongoing series of supporting-narratives that can be swapped out as circumstances warrant. It is important to recognize that these stories do not have to be true, valid or accurate to serve their purpose. The entire memo is embedded below, read it and decide for yourself. On July 21, he was fired by McMaster’s deputy, but not explicitly given a reason why. That is a question President Trump should be asking.
Examples of freedom in a Sentence Or Bugs would do the impossible by jumping out of the frame and landing on the drawing board of the cartoonist who was at work creating him. This freedom to transcend the laws of basic physics, to hop around in time and space, and to skip from one dimension to another has long been a crucial aspect of imaginative poetry. — Billy Collins, Wall Street Journal, 28-29 June 2008 I can see that my choices were never truly mine alone—and that that is how it should be, that to assert otherwise is to chase after a sorry sort of freedom. — Barack Obama, Dreams from My Father, (1995) 2004 Its the beginning of summer. … For many adults who are really closet kids, this means that their blood hums with a hint of freedom … —Anna Quindlen, Newsweek, 18 June 2001 He thinks children these days have too much freedom. a political prisoner struggling to win his freedom Recent Examples of freedom from the Web These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word freedom. Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors.
Martin Truex Jr. stands during the national anthem before opening race of the NASCAR Cup Series. More than 100 NFL players took a knee during "The Star Spangled Banner" on Sunday in response to President Trumps fiery comments slamming players who kneeled during the National Anthem. But during Sundays NASCAR Cup Series opener in Loudon, New Hampshire, seemingly all drivers, crew and team members stood with their hands on their hearts before the race after multiple team owners threatened to fire drivers who refused to do so. AP has further details: Several team owners and executives had said they wouldn’t want anyone in their organizations to protest. Richard Childress, who was Dale Earnhardt’s longtime team owner, said of protesting, It’ll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus. Childress says he told his team that anybody that works for me should respect the country we live in." " Dale Earnhardt Jr.—whos set to retire with a staggering 26 wins at the end of this season—disagreed with his late fathers former colleague. The racing legend came out in support of Americans "granted rights" to conduct "peaceful protests" and quoted President Kennedy in a tweet. Seven-time NASCAR champion and team owner Richard Petty took the strongest stance on the issue. The 72-year-old Hall of Fame driver said that anybody who takes a knee should be thrown "out of the country. Period" Richard Petty’s sentiments took it a step further, saying: Anybody that don’t stand up for the anthem oughta be out of the country. When asked if a protester at Richard Petty Motorsports would be fired, he said, You’re right. NASCARS organization-wide refusal to protest garnered praise from President Trump, who tweeted that he was "proud" of supporters and fans who "wont put up with disrespecting" the flag. As the final game of NFL Week 3 commences Monday night, many are wondering if the Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones—who contributed $1 million to Trumps inauguration fund—will protest alongside his players before taking on the Arizona Cardinals in Phoenix.
Let it be the pioneer on the plain Seeking a home where he himself is free. ( Let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed-- Let it be that great strong land of love Where never kings connive nor tyrants scheme That any man be crushed by one above. ( O, let my land be a land where Liberty Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath, But opportunity is real, and life is free, Equality is in the air we breathe. ( Theres never been equality for me, Nor freedom in this "homeland of the free.") Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? And who are you that draws your veil across the stars? I am the poor white, fooled and pushed apart, I am the Negro bearing slaverys scars. I am the red man driven from the land, I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek-- And finding only the same old stupid plan Of dog eat dog, of mighty crush the weak. I am the young man, full of strength and hope, Tangled in that ancient endless chain Of profit, power, gain, of grab the land! I am the people, humble, hungry, mean-- Hungry yet today despite the dream. I am the man who never got ahead, The poorest worker bartered through the years. Yet Im the one who dreamt our basic dream In the Old World while still a serf of kings, Who dreamt a dream so strong, so brave, so true, That even yet its mighty daring sings In every brick and stone, in every furrow turned Thats made America the land it has become. O, Im the man who sailed those early seas In search of what I meant to be my home-- For Im the one who left dark Irelands shore, And Polands plain, and Englands grassy lea, And torn from Black Africas strand I came To build a "homeland of the free." The millions who have nothing for our pay? For all the dreams weve dreamed And all the songs weve sung And all the hopes weve held And all the flags weve hung, The millions who have nothing for our pay-- Except the dream thats almost dead today. O, let America be America again-- The land that never has been yet-- And yet must be--the land where every man is free. The land thats mine--the poor mans, Indians, Negros, ME-- Who made America, Whose sweat and blood, whose faith and pain, Whose hand at the foundry, whose plow in the rain, Must bring back our mighty dream again. Sure, call me any ugly name you choose-- The steel of freedom does not stain. From those who live like leeches on the peoples lives, We must take back our land again, America! O, yes, I say it plain, America never was America to me, And yet I swear this oath-- America will be! Out of the rack and ruin of our gangster death, The rape and rot of graft, and stealth, and lies, We, the people, must redeem The land, the mines, the plants, the rivers. The mountains and the endless plain-- All, all the stretch of these great green states-- And make America again!
Jimmy Kimmel addressed crestfallen Clinton supporters on Wednesday night in the hopes of helping them cope with Trump’s election victory. A lot of voters woke up this morning happy that Donald Trump had won the election, but the other half of them, especially here in California, were very upset, Kimmel noted. People were shocked, despondent, some were even crying. As a result, the late-night host decided to walk his viewers through the five stages of grief. The first stage in the process is denial, which Kimmel summarized as no, the host of Celebrity Apprentice can’t possibly be our president, CNN must have the math wrong. After that comes the anger stage: Who do I blame for this? How is it possible that half the country is too busy to even vote? After getting that out of his system, Kimmel moved on to the third stage: bargaining. Maybe this needed to happen to wake up everyone up, he reasoned. Maybe he’ll only build the wall waist high, to keep short people out. This rationalization period was quickly followed by depression, where you get a spoon and you just eat peanut butter out of the jar. Finally, many jars of peanut butter later, Kimmel suggested that tearful voters will eventually reach acceptance – possibly with the aid of some narcotics. No matter how you feel about it, Donald Trump is the president of the United States of America, Kimmel said. So thank god we legalized marijuana yesterday. California passed Proposition 64, a law legalizing recreational marijuana.
Brits travelling to America could be subject to Muslim Labour MP Tulip Siddiq has called on Trump to clarify whether to not Brits travelling to the US will be subject to ideological tests in order to gain entry. Back in August, Trump spoke about introducing extreme vetting, which would involve would-be immigrants being questioned on subjects such as their religious freedom, gender equality and gay rights. But his campaign team were not clear on whether this process would apply to the millions of tourists who visit the country each year. Trump did state that if he was elected, those excluded from visiting the country would include people who didn’t believe in the U.S Constitution, support bigotry and hatred, believe Shariah law is more important than US law, or would not flourish in the country. Trump spoke about bringing in the vetting process back in August Tulip, the Labour MP for Hampstead and Kilburn, told the Telegraph: With the stark reality of the American election now beginning to settle in, Mr Trump needs to clarify immediately whether or not British tourists will have to take these so-called ‘ideological tests’ before being able to continue on their holidays in the US. Millions of British Muslims will feel feel despair at the possibility of being singled out for this sort of prejudiced scapegoating, which will only encourage division and hatred in society. Jack Dromey, a shadow Labour business minister, added: Is Donald Trump really saying that a proud British Muslim mum and dad travelling to America to their daughter’s wedding will have to undergo extreme vetting first? He needs to clarify whether or not he will treat a million Muslims in Britain as second class citizens, potentially a risk to American security? Tue, October 18, 2016 The smartest travel hacks that everyone should know. The best hacks for smart travellers Muslim Labour MP Tulip Saddiq is now calling on Trump to clarify whether the screenings will happen It is foolish and irresponsible behaviour which can only feed fundamentalism. Those planning to travel to the US soon may find immigration changes will have passengers speeding through customs. Anyone who has travelled to the US will know the queues in the airport for their passports to be inspected are long. It is the last thing people want to be doing after a long-haul flight and a dose of jet lag. If it does come into force, immigrants would have to believe in US law, not Shariah law But now, travellers will find this process has just got a lot faster. The Department of Homeland Security has announced plans to expands pre-clearance programme. The pre-clearance programme will see passengers going through the immigration and customs inspection before they board the flight to the US. This in turn will mean that once they arrive, they can move swiftly on to collect their baggage.
Ever since Kimmel became a DNC talking head, he’s become America’s moral conscience. — He claims he isn’t — and therefore need not crack jokes about Harvey Weinstein. First of all, the Harvey Weinstein thing, people like this false equivalence of that’s somehow equivalent to what happened in Las Vegas, Kimmel added, arguing that the alleged assault of dozens of women does not deserve the same reaction as the killing of nearly 60 people. He said that Weinstein is not a friend of mine, adding, I’m not in the movie business. As a once and future Oscar host who is friends with many of the movie stars in Weinstein’s orbit, that claim is a hard one to buy. On GMA, Kimmel went on to accuse gun nuts of trying take any comedy bit I did out of context and use it as some kind of proof that he is not an ally for women, including some pretty gross moments from The Man Show. […] They’re saying that I’m calling myself the moral conscience of America, which I most certainly never did and most certainly never would, he declared. Kimmel doesn’t seem at all bothered that conservatives want nothing to do with him and his show now. Washington Examiner reports: Critics like conservative commentator Ben Shapiro have slammed Kimmel for parading as a moral arbiter. I’m nobody’s moral arbiter, Kimmel told CBS. A defiant Kimmel added that he doesn’t say I don’t mind because he preferred everyone with a television to watch the show. But if they’re so turned off by my opinion on healthcare and gun violence then, I don’t know, I probably wouldn’t want to have a conversation with them anyway, he continued. The last place you want to be is on the receiving end of Ben Shapiro’s laser sharp tongue. Almost two weeks after demolishing Jimmy Kimmel over his asinine health-care tirades, conservative star and podcast host Ben Shapiro obliterating the ABC late-night host on Tuesday for an abhorrent, gross, and nasty gun control rant touting confiscation and mauling those against his views as monstrous. Jimmy Kimmel should not cheered for what he did last night. Jimmy Kimmel should be asked to provide the evidence for his suppositions rather than the evidence for his emotions. Shapiro noted at the onset that Kimmel did something last night that I find truly abhorrent which was discard any and all facts as part of his effort to become the social justice king of late-night television and all-heart representation of all leftist causes. Key highlights below: Shapiro on leftists dividing America: Last night, he did a long shitck about gun control that was entirely based on emotion and it was really nasty. I don’t think it was nasty because he doesn’t care. It’s really nasty because he’s suggesting that you and I don’t care. It doesn’t matter that you lost sleep last night and I lost sleep because of what happened. It doesn’t matter that we’re all heartbroken over what happened. We don’t agree with Jimmy Kimmel’s evidence-less suggestions about gun control. You want to know why the country is not unified? We’ve been disagreeing about policy forever. It’s because there are certain people in the American public discourse who feel it necessary to impute bad motives to people who disagree and that’s what Kimmel’s doing here. Now, AR-15s aren’t military grade…Civilian guns are very different from military-issued guns. For him to say the Second Amendment doesn’t cover things like AR-15s — a semi-automatic rifle, is akin to me saying the First Amendment doesn’t cover TV because the Founders hadn’t seen a TV, would never know what it’d look like, and don’t understand how it works. As far as the idea that ARs aren’t used for home defense, again, asinine. I have a bunch of friends who use ARs for home defense.
Pamela Engel Deputy Editor, Politics and Military &amp; Defense Pamela Engel Pamela is the deputy editor overseeing the Politics and Military &amp; Defense sections of Business Insider. She was previously the politics editor, and before that was a senior reporter covering domestic politics, foreign policy, and national security. Before BI, she worked for the Associated Press in Indianapolis. She has also written for The Columbus Dispatch, the Scripps Howard news wire, and the New York Observer.
President Obama Male voters must break their sexist inclinations so the country can get over the hump and elect its first female president, President Obama said Tuesday. In a message directed to the guys out there at a campaign rally at Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, Obama said, [T]here’s a reason why we haven’t had a woman president before… And we have to ask ourselves, as men — because I hope my daughters are going to be able to achieve anything they want to achieve — and I know that my wife is not just my equal but my superior, he continued. I want every man out there who’s voting to kind of look inside yourself and ask yourself, if you’re having problems with this stuff, how much of it is that we’re just not used to it. So that, like, when a guy is ambitious and out in the public arena and working hard, well, that’s okay; but when a woman suddenly does it, suddenly you’re all like, well, why is she doing that? Obama’s closing argument for his possible successor comes as GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump has a slight edge over Hillary Clinton in the Buckeye State. The RealClearPolitics average of Ohio pollsshows the mogul with a 2.5-percentage-point lead, with Trump getting 46.8 percent of the vote and Clinton 44.3 percent.
Body camera video released after verdict. ( Screenshot) On Friday, a day after former Mesa, Arizona police officer Philip Brailsford was acquitted of second-degree murder charges, state officials released a graphic video of the shooting, showing the victim begging for his life. In the video, another officer, now-retired Sgt. Charles Langley, orders seemingly-terrified Daniel Shaver to cross his legs, crawl and keep his hands raised straight up in the air prior to the fatal shooting. The officers were responding to a call alleging a man was pointing a gun out of a window, The Washington Post reports: "After the officer involved was acquitted of second-degree murder charges, officials in Arizona released graphic video showing Daniel Shaver crawling on his hands and knees and begging for his life in the moments before he was shot and killed by police in January 2016." …. " The shooting, by Philip Mitch Brailsford, then an officer with the Mesa Police Department, occurred after officers responded to a call about a man allegedly pointing a rifle out of a fifth-floor window at a La Quinta Inn. Inside the room, Shaver, 26, had been doing rum shots with a woman he had met earlier that day and showing off a pellet gun he used in his job in pest control." Wrongful-death lawsuits against the city of Mesa have been filed by Shavers family members. WARNING: Video contains graphic, disturbing content. test test Please support CNSNews today! ( a 501c3 non-profit production of the Media Research Center) DONATE
Modal Trigger Tom Arnold Comedian Tom Arnold is claiming Hillary Clinton begged him to release footage of President Trump using racial slurs just days before the November election. The 57-year-old alleged last year he had video of Trump repeatedly saying n—– and every bad thing ever, every offensive, racist thing ever, but is now saying Clinton called him just two days before Americans went to the polls to plead for its release, the Telegraph reported. I had all the outtakes from Trump saying the N-word on ‘The Apprentice,’ said Arnold, who was just voted off Australia’s I’m A Celebrity … Get Me Out Of Here! [ Clinton] called me two days before the election and said, ‘Please release that, Arnold claimed, alleging that the Democratic nominee said, The weight of the free world is on your shoulders. I’d love to be a hero, but I can’t hurt these families, he claimed to have responded. Arnold says he might still release the reel with their permission, thought it remains unclear if he was referring to the targets of Trump’s vitriol or The Apprentice producers. In an interview before going on the British sitcom, Arnold told a radio host he didn’t want to release the hate speech out of respect for those involved. Well, now, these people — two editors and an associate producer — are scared to death. They’re scared of his people, they’re scared they’ll never work again, he said on Dori Monson’s radio show. The American actor and comic, who starred alongside Arnold Schwarzenegger in the 1994 film classic True Lies, also said he didn’t think releasing the racist rant would work. I don’t think people would care, he said. Trump still managed to cinch the electoral vote despite national outrage surrounding the October release of the notorious grab them by the p—- video.
According to the latest damning snippet from Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury, President Donald Trump tried to rationalize why people would join the K. From the New York Times review: There are lots of arresting details in the book. We learn that the administration holds special animus for what it calls D.O.J. women, or women who work in the Justice Department. Wolff writes that after the white supremacist mayhem in Charlottesville, Va., Trump privately rationalized why someone would be a member of the K.K.K. Many believe the anecdotes and quotes from Wolff’s book should be treated with a healthy dose of skepticism, but this one is not implausible. Trump went on the record in the wake of the Charlottesville white supremacy march that left Heather Heyer dead, saying he believed there were  good people on both sides of the protest, one side of which was rife with Neo-Nazis and white supremacists. Trump was widely criticized for the response, which many considered a tacit endorsement of white supremacy. During his presidential campaign, an old New York Times story was unearthed that reported Trump’s father, Fred, back in 1927, was arrested at a rally in 1927 where K members were present. It was never proven whether he was participating in the rally or a member of the group. David Covucci is the Layer 8 editor at the Daily Dot, covering the intersection of politics and the web. His work has appeared in Vice, the Huffington Post, Jezebel, Gothamist, and other publications. He is particularly interested in hearing any tips you have.
INDIANAPOLIS (WTHR) - Former Colts head coach Tony Dungy announced on Twitter Thursday morning that hes donating money to help a city near Tampa Bay remove a Confederate statue. Dungy tweeted a picture of the front page of the Tampa Bay Times saying Hillsborough would need $140,0 in private funds in the next 30 days to move the statue. He said he and his wife "are in for $5K" and then challenged Tampas sports teams to pitch in as well. Since Charlottesville, there has been a surge in efforts to move or outright destroy statues of Confederate war leaders from Gainesville, Florida to Baltimore, Maryland. There has also been a renewal of efforts to protect the monuments. President Donald Trump tweeted that its "Sad to see the history and culture of our great country being ripped apart" with the removal of such statues around the country. Maines Republican governor Paul LePage went so far as to say removing Confederate statues is "just like" removing a monument to victims of the 9/11 attacks.
Gupta Patel Slams New Bill Passed To Teach Your Kids Anal Sex In Public School And He’s Fired Up Like A Samosa Fresh Out The Pan! He’s never blogged for us before but something caught his eye in the news that sent him reeling. Let’s give him a warm welcome as he has a meltdown about the statehouse deciding to teach kids as young as 12 how to safely take it in the back door! This amendment would gut the bill, DiDomenico claimed, noting that the legislation already features an opt-out amendment for both parents and school districts. We do not have opt-in for science, math, English — we don’t have any opt-in initiative for any other subjects in our schools — this subject in particular could save lives. Other Democrats who spoke out in opposition to Tarr’s amendment included state Senator John Keenan of Quincy, Worcester’s Harriet Chandler, and Boston’s Sonia Chang-Diaz. Chandler claimed that an opt-in provision would result in a very limited number of people who would be taking advantage of it. The alternative of what we’re talking about is our children learning about these behaviors from what they hear on the school bus or read on the Internet, she added. It suggests that somehow we ought to subordinate the role of the parent to the role of the state. In some respects I’d put it ahead of those subjects, DiDomenico added. State Senator Barbara L’Italien (D-Andover) also spoke, mentioning an incident in which her older sister became pregnant during high school. Getting married at age 17 locked her into a life of virtual poverty, L’Italien said. There are times when government needs to be proactive, and protective, and this is one of those situations. And I say Yes my little one, I have been preparing for this conversation long time. Uncle Gupta think the biggest sticking point probably gonna be the anal sex. finish your English homeworks so you can be excellent writer someday. Make sure you don’t miss any of the Massachusetts mandated sex education class so you can be great wide receiver some day! In the name of heavenly teacher Guru Deva please reincarnate these people as pimples on Kim Kardashian’s face at bukake session after Black Lives Matter rally. Going to work up her Lincoln Log Factory probably sound like punching a fist into the open jar of Miracle Whip! ( She so old her dunghole probably look like the hopper on a meat grinder after Porketta night. You know what going to happen in the class full of 12 years old kids when teacher start talking about the anal and oral sex? One lesson teaches the childrens that A dental dam is placed over the vulva or anus during oral sex. This handsome Indian TurtleBoy don’t think Saran Wrap company be too happy knowing sex education class teaching the children to use their product to cover the chocolate cannoli. I had to call my cousin the Gastroenterologist about this one. He say to me Gupta, you been lighting up the porn hub again? The inner ring can be removed after inserted if desired. You might remember him from such blogs as these. This bhenchod one real professional turtle poking man! In my former country he would not have been problem because we would have already kill him already. Anyway, this Hindu try hard to reach these senators on Twitter but they not responding.
Save Photo by Franco Images On Thursday, President Trump signed an executive order that will begin to deplete the Affordable Care Act, and allow companies to offer cheaper healthcare plans with fewer benefits. Or, as he put it, he is saving the American people from the nightmare of Obamacare. Just a few hours later, the Trump administration announced its ending federal subsidies for health insurance companies that help millions of low-income people pay deductibles and out-of-pocket costs. These subsidies were projected to cost about $9 billion this year, according to the New York Times, and nearly $100 billion in the coming decade. The new decision will go into effect immediately, the Health and Human Services Department announced on Thursday. According to the Times, without the subsidies, "insurance markets could quickly unravel." Insurers have already threatened to pull out of the insurance exchanges created under Obamacare if subsidies are cut off, because they said they will need much higher premiums. The government cannot lawfully make the cost-sharing reduction payments, the White House said in a statement. Congress needs to repeal and replace the disastrous Obamacare law and provide real relief to the American people. In a joint statement, Senate and House Minority Leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi said Trump has apparently decided to punish the American people for his inability to improve our health care system. They consider Trumps decision "a spiteful act of vast, pointless sabotage leveled at working families and the middle class in every corner of America."
Flooded homes are shown near Lake Houston following Hurricane Harvey on Aug. 30 in Texas (Win Images). ( GMG) - The question is going to be asked many times, by many people: Did global warming cause or have any impact on Hurricane Irma? Heres the truth about the relationship between global warming and hurricanes Irma and Harvey. Scientists are uncertain about whether global warming will cause more hurricanes. In fact, some scientists say that a warmer planet will actually result in fewer hurricanes. A warming world means that ocean temperatures increase, too. And we all know that warm ocean water is the fuel that power hurricanes. Fewer hurricanes mean a lower chance that one hits Florida. But a hurricane that does form and heads our way will likely be stronger, with a more severe storm surge and higher winds. Something else to consider is that, as the world warms, more ocean water evaporates into the atmosphere (which has been documented.its happening). This water vapor is what hurricanes turn into rainfall. Our warmer world with higher atmospheric humidity means that tropical weather systems have more moisture to tap into, which means greater potential for increased rainfall. Statistics show that extreme precipitation events nationwide are increasing, and this also applies to tropical systems. So, hurricanes are necessary to balance the planets water budget. The only problem is that people get in the way, and hurricanes of the future likely will have higher rainfall and increased potential for catastrophic flooding events -- also due to higher storm surges, resulting from higher sea levels from the warming climate. Now, lets apply all of this information to hurricanes Irma and Harvey: --------- Did global warming cause Irma or Harvey? Could global warming have affected Irma’s record strength, or Harveys rapid intensification, just before landfall? Harvey strengthened rapidly from a Category 1 to a Category 4 storm in just over a day, undoubtedly due to very warm Gulf of Mexico waters it traveled over in otherwise favorable conditions. It was the first Category 4 storm to make landfall in Texas since Hurricane Carla in 1961. Irma became the strongest Atlantic basin hurricane when its winds increased to 185 mph, also due to very warm ocean temperatures and otherwise favorable conditions. So, global warming may have been part of the reason that Harvey rapidly intensified just before landfall, and Irma became a record-breaking hurricane. As we discussed above, increased atmospheric humidity due to global warming is making storms such as Harvey more predisposed to heavier rainfall. Remember that most hurricanes (such as Irma) come and go: they make landfall and keep on moving. It hung around for a while and meandered due to weak steering currents. While most people focus on wind, the true destructive power of that storm was water. Bands of torrential rain plagued southeast Texas for more than five straight days. Think about that for a moment: Hurricane and tropical storm-induced heavy rain bands, day after day. And by the way, there is no way to know, based upon our current knowledge, whether global warming had any impact on Harveys slow movement. Hopefully, future research will answer that question. By Meteorologist Paul Gross Graham Media Group 2017
President Donald Trump took a new swipe at U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Monday, referring to him in a tweet as "beleaguered" and wondering why he isnt digging into Hillary Clintons alleged contacts with Russia. ( P. Bernstein) President Trump took his criticism of Jeff Sessions to a. good grief, youre going to always have squabbles of course the president wasnt happy that Sessions recluse himself from the Russian investigation from the Russian investigation. its one of those situations damned if you do and damned if you dont. User from CA 2017.7.25 You will not get another ine because the democrats will not put another attorney general through Get down to business now and let all this other junk go by the way side repeal obama care and put another health care in but if you guys do not get together and quit going against each other because you want more medical Vicky Walters 2017.7.25
Even Jerry Springer Thinks This Election Is Too Much © 2016 Bloomberg Finance LP A chat with the host of the trashiest talk show in television history about Trump, Hillary, and the State of the Union. It’s just awfully good that someone with the temperament of Donald Trump is not in charge of the law in our country, Clinton levels. Trump cuts in with a threat: Because you’d be in jail. Ive never had a guest on my show who I thought should be president, says Springer, laughing. Last month, he tweeted his assessment of the options facing the American people: Hillary Clinton belongs in the White House. You know, other than your net worth, what is the difference, and why do people wind up calling people on my show trash? Oh gosh, I’ve gotta think…"I’ll Beat That Blank To The White House." A hallmark of your show is when people start throwing chairs at each other. Be honest: Do you ever feel like thwacking Trump with a folding chair? [ TRENDING THIS VERY SECOND travel-and-eats Where to Eat and Drink in Houston, the New Capital of Southern Cool culture Serena Williams Catsuit Is Banned from All Future French Opens news-and-politics No One Knows Why This QAnon Conspiracy Theorist Was in the Oval Office with Trump Well he’s far better on television than I am, so Im not worried, because Im 73 years old. [ then every Democrat running in the country starts calling you for money. EMBED URL&lt;script async src="//player-backend.cnevids. /video/5b7490bd8c1abc4fee00001d.js?iu=/3379/conde. "& It looks like were experiencing playback issues. You’re an ardent Hillary Clinton supporter. In other words, when you run for reelection for president, you already know all of the world issues. But for someone who hasnt yet been president, I dont think theres another human being that could sit down with her and would know as much about whats going on in the world, has thought more about all these issues for her whole lifetime, than she has. She really is the most qualified person ever to run for president who hasnt been president before. And theres no particular benefit for me other than I love my country. So I take the State of Liberty very seriously. This was the place we were going to come. And wants to replace the State of Liberty with a wall? Its, like, a cruel irony to say were going to make America great again. And I saw that in politics, and I see it in the people on my show. . 99 percent of what we are, we had nothing to do with. Not one person you will ever meet had anything to do with the decision to be born, to whom youd be born, what kind of health, what kind of brain, what era, what country. But even that is based on what we were born with. If you understand that, then you will never ever judge people based on what they are. You can’t even make a parody of it anymore. I mean, I could have done a whole season of shows just on this campaign.
Remember back in August of 2015, when Donald Trumps women problem was contained to calling Rosie ODonnell a "pig" at the first Republican debate and saying Megyn Kelly had "blood coming out of her wherever" for asking legitimate questions about his sexist treatment of women? Fast forward to present day (or, more accurately, last night), and we now have former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (and current Trump surrogate) literally daring Kelly to call Bill Clinton a "sexual predator" on live television after trying to denounce the coverage of Trumps numerous sexual misconduct allegations as unfair and biased. Thank goodness there are only 13 more days till the election because, honestly, how much more of this can the American people take? What began as a conversation between the Fox News anchor and former speaker of the house about Donald Trumps dwindling poll numbers soon turned into a hostile exchange about sexism, media bias, and the election. Recent reports, including one conducted by Fox News, show Clintons numbers growing in several key states, making Trumps chances of becoming president all the more slim. Gingrich quickly interjected that all these polls are biased—"Fox News? I dont think so," Kelly countered—before he launched into an attack on the media as a whole for focusing on the Access Hollywood tape and the numerous women who have come forward to corroborate the things Trump articulated on the leaked footage, rather than the leaked transcripts of Hillary Clintons Wall Street speeches or her plans to allow "600 million people" to migrate to the country. " The three major networks spent 23 minutes attacking Donald Trump [after the third presidential debate] and 57 seconds on Hillary Clintons secret speeches," Gingrich said. " You dont think this is a scale of bias worthy of Pravada and Izvestia?" ( Quick history aside: Pravada and Izvestia were two newspapers published in Soviet Russia.) Kelly articulated that "if Trump is a sexual predator"—which Gingrich quickly denied—and was revealed to have a lengthy history of sexual misconduct, Americans—especially American women—have the right to know this about a presidential nominee and the media should be required to cover it. Or so she tried to articulate before Gingrich once again interrupted her for using "inflammatory" language "that is not true." " You are fascinated by sex and you dont care about public policy," said a man who spent his tenure as speaker of the house obstructing the president and twenty-plus years dwelling on Bill Clintons sexual history. " Kelly countered, before Gingrich doubled down, saying, "Thats what I get out of watching you tonight." Kelly responded to this, saying, "You know, Mr. Speaker, Im not fascinated by sex, but I am fascinated by the protection of women and understanding what were getting in the Oval Office and I think the American voters would like to know." " Therefore were going to send Bill Clinton back to the East Wing because, after all, youre worried about sexual predators?" The poll numbers show us that the women of America, in particular, are very concerned about these allegations, and, in large part, believe they are a real issue and dont want to dismiss the women." Kelly barely made her point before Gingrich once again interrupted, saying, "You want a comment on whether the Clinton ticket has a relationship to a sexual predator?" " We, on The Kelly File, have covered that story as well," she countered. " I want to hear you use the words Bill Clinton, sexual predator. Say Bill Clinton, sexual predator," Gingrich said, smirking all the while. Kelly, as expected, kept her cool, explained that she had, in fact, covered Clintons past behavior on her show, before making the most sound counter-argument to Gingrichs challenge. " The polls also show the American public is less interested in the deeds of Hillary Clinton’s husband than they are in the deeds of the man who asks us to make him president, Donald Trump. As the segment drew to an end, Kelly bid farewell to her contentious guest, saying, "We’re going to have to leave it at that and you can take your anger issues and spend some time working on them, Mr. Speaker. To which Gingrich replied, "And you too."
Prior to Sundays presidential debate, four women who have accused the Clintons of wrongdoing, including allegations of sexual deviancy, spoke at a press availability with Republican Donald Trump. Observers said Trump meant to contrast his vulgar leaked 2005 audiotape with the allegations from the women about their mistreatment at the hands of the Clintons. " Its so important.when people are talking about. the words that Donald Trump uttered--hes very embarrassed.hes apologetic for those words," Juanita Broaddrick, 73, told Sean Hannity. Broaddrick has accused Bill Clinton of sexually assaulting her in 1978, and has said that Hillary Clinton attacked her character after she came forward with the original accusations. " Ive never heard one apology for what Hillary Clinton did to me after she threatened me after her husband raped me. I did have an apology from Bill Clinton, although hell never admit it--Id like to see him do it in-person," she said. Broaddrick added that she "feared" a Clinton presidency because she suspected that Hillary Clinton would seek retribution against her for speaking out once more. Watch the full clip above and let us know what you think in the comments. Krauthammer: Trump Threat to Prosecute Hillary Sounds Like a Banana Republic
Hillary Clinton called Monica Lewinsky a narcissistic loony tune. She called Gennifer Flowers some failed cabaret singer. She said Republicans in Congress had organized a vast right-wing conspiracy against her husband, President Bill Clinton. Hillary Clinton expects special treatment. The real question is: why did the FBI give it to her? Despite a deep web of connections to Clinton, McCabe formally recused himself from the email investigation only a week before the 2016 election. McCabe’s admissions are telling, but not inaccurate. Four months have passed since 20 members of the House Judiciary Committee demanded a special counsel to investigate Hillary Clinton. No action from the Department of Justice has been taken. Recently released emails show that Bill Clinton purposely altered his departure to get time alone with Lynch. When Lynch told then-FBI Director James Comey to refer to the Hillary Clinton investigation as a matter rather than an investigation, language had a special meaning. According to McCabe, the decision was made to investigate (Hillary Clinton) at HQ with a small team. More prosecutors are currently investigating President Trump than were assigned to the Oklahoma City bombing, but Hillary Clinton got the small team at HQ. And how did the small team at HQ handle the investigation? Somewhere between the first and the final draft, Comey’s statement changed. He first wrote that Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server was grossly negligent. The final draft said she was extremely careless. Comey’s exoneration was drafted before the FBI interviewed key witnesses – including Clinton herself. When Intelligence Community Inspector General Charles McCullough confronted officials about the depth of Clinton’s crimes, he faced threats and personal blowback against him and his family. McCullough’s reports were delivered to then-Director of National Intelligence James Clapper. In every instance, being special has redounded to Hillary Clinton’s political and legal benefit. Some at the Department of Justice and the FBI seem to have a special bias against the president. FBI Agent Peter Strzok sent biased anti-Trump text messages. He worked on both the Clinton email scandal and the Mueller probe. It remains unclear what evidence he reviewed, generated or damaged in either investigation. If biased agents have tainted evidence, we need to see it. If politically-interested prosecutors have an agenda, we need to know it. If our government institutions are being undermined by the deep state, we must expose it. After all, equal treatment under the law is just one thing that makes America so special. Republican Matt Gaetz represents Floridas 1st congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives.
As seen on Justice With Judge Jeanine Issa: Comey Reopening FBI Clinton Email Probe Matter of His Integrity In her Opening Statement last night, Judge Jeanine Pirro said FBI Director James Comey owes it to the American people to reveal what new information made him decide to reopen the Hillary Clinton email investigation. " Hes got to tell us what was discovered what was so big that he violated Justice Department and FBI guidelines and alerted the nation. He cannot hide behind protocol," Judge Jeanine said. She also called for a "thorough, unbiased investigation," with search warrants, empaneling a grand jury and a deal with Huma Abedin to get the top Clinton aide to talk. " Jim, go back to your roots," Judge Jeanine said. " You need to send these Clintons back to where they came from." Read the full transcript below, and let us know what you think in the comments. Liberals Bash FBI Director Comey Over Clinton Probe After Praising Him in July Mother of Jailed Sailor: Hold Hillary to Same Standards as My Son on Classified Info The FBI’s ability to get Huma Abedin- Hillary Clintons closest advisor, confidante and State Department deputy chief of staff - to sing will make or break this election. Right now, reports are the FBI is negotiating with Humas lawyers, stemming from her joint computer with pervert husband, disgraced ex -congressman Anthony Weiner. Here we go again: We are nine days from an election that will redefine this nation. And as I said last night, were on the precipice of yet another constitutional crisis because of the Clintons. This time, involving an alleged pedophile, our nations top secrets and a couple of grifters from Arkansas. You already know how I feel about all this from my open last night. The Justice guidelines dont let me talk rule doesnt work anymore. The we dont comment on pending cases doesnt work anymore. If there is an indictment, Hillary is now foreclosed from objecting to such disclosure. My bet is, she knows you wont - but thinks that she’s calling your bluff. If she really wanted to know, all she has to do is sit down with Huma and ask her. The investigation is then not compromised, since documentary evidence - here emails - do not change. You’re the one who got yourself in this mess. And now the American people are in a bigger mess. In 2013 Huma signed a document under penalty of perjury when she left the state department that she had turned over all classified materials and that she was not retaining copies. It seems that metadata on 650 thousand emails suggest otherwise. She had a chance to turn things over and she didn’t. Start your negotiation there, Mr. Director. If you dont and Hillary gets elected, no one will care. Word is that although Justice told your FBI guys to shut down the Clinton Foundation investigation, it’s still ongoing. Our attorney general actually pleaded the fifth on the Iran ransom probe. Loretta Lynch meeting with the spouse of a target and then the target herself days later saying I will keep Loretta Lynch as my attorney general is bribery pure and simple. You need to send these Clintons back to where they came from.
The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops called out former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon just days after he accused the Catholic Church of having ulterior motives in helping undocumented immigrants. James Rogers, the USCCBs chief spokesman, called Bannons comments "preposterous" in a interview on Sirius Radio. Rogers was referring to Steve Bannons interview with Charlie Rose on "60 Minutes" where he claimed the Catholic Church only needs "illegal aliens" as worshipers. Rogers says Bannons statements are untrue. " Our pro-immigration stance is based on fidelity to Gods word and honors the American dream. For anyone to suggest that it is out of sordid motives of statistics or financial gain is outrageous and insulting," he added. " And the Bible is so clear, so clear, that to treat the immigrant with dignity and respect, to make sure that society is just in its treatment of the immigrant is Biblical mandate," Dolan said. " Its clear in the Old Testament -- my Jewish neighbors remind me of that all the time -- and its clear from the lips of Jesus when he said, Whatever you do to the least of my brothers you do to me. When I was a stranger -- meaning an immigrant or a refugee -- you welcomed me." Bannons comments have drawn widespread criticism. Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the Archbishop of New York, said in an interview on the Catholic Channel on Sirius XM, "I dont really care to go into what I think is a preposterous and rather insulting statement that the only reason we bishops care for immigrants is for the economic because we want to fill our churches and get more money." The full interview of Steve Bannon on "60 Minutes" will air this Sunday. Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon is accusing the Catholic Church of needing "illegal aliens" as worshipers. The Catholic Church has been terrible about this, he said while discussing immigration policy in a new interview Thursday. The bishops have been terrible about this. [ It’s] because [they’re] unable to really to – to – to come to grips with the problems in the church, Bannon continued on CBS’s 60 Minutes. They need illegal aliens, they need illegal aliens to fill the churches. They have an economic interest in unlimited immigration, unlimited illegal immigration. Bannon was discussing President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. DACA temporarily blocks undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children from deportation and lets them get renewable work permits. Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Tuesday announced that Trump’s administration would eliminate the program in six months. Nearly 800,0 Dreamers, or DACA recipients, have benefited from the program since former President Barack Obama’s administration implemented it in 2012.
Briefly: In our opinion, full (150% of the regular full position) speculative short positions in gold, silver and mining stocks are justified from the perspective at the moment of publishing this alert. The week is over and we have weekly changes and weekly volume levels to analyze and we saw major moves in the important ratios. Why do we think that gold doesn’t want to bottom here? Because if it did, it would have ended Friday’s session much higher. The white metal declined once again and even though gold closed a bit higher, it managed to close lower. On Friday, the general stock market declined significantly but almost the entire decline was reversed before the end of the session. Let’s move back to gold for a few minutes. The latter makes it considerably more likely that an important top was just formed and thus that the breakdown that we just saw will be confirmed. The mentioned breakdown is almost confirmed. Almost, because we would prefer to see three consecutive closing prices below the support line to see it as strong resistance, but we have already seen two of them, a weekly close and also a failed attempt to move back above the line. Because due to several failed attempts to break below this level, we had to be skeptical toward the breakdown this time. The question was: Would this time be any different? You’ll probably not see it anywhere (except for this publication) this time either. From the weekly point of view, we see that mining stocks declined and broke below the rising support lines based on the 2016 and 2017 lows and that the breakdown took place on big volume. Moreover, we didn’t see similarly low volume readings in the past Novembers, which suggests that we are correct to view the low volume levels as something important and meaningful. In the following weeks, the GDX price was cut by a third. We already discussed some of those similarities above, but there’s also something else that is likely in play right now. However, today we are not going to repeat the October analysis – we are going to discuss something alike… in gold. That’s probably why we didn’t discover it earlier. The decline was more or less twice the size of the decline from the key (March 2008 and late 2011) top. The sizes of the upswings differ on a relative basis, but it’s understandable as back in 2008 the moves took place in a very short time, so the levels of emotionality among market participants were much higher. The decline that started thereafter in 2008 was the biggest and sharpest decline in many years. The detail that could be important going forward is the moment when the decline took a breather. We already discussed, why the yearly volume levels at record highs should not be viewed as bullish (final part of the November 14 alert that we’re linking to) and today we would like to add the observation that back in 2008 the volume levels also broke to new highs and stayed there for a long time. Yes, the volume has been growing almost constantly, but the 2008 and 2017 buildups in volume still stand out. We are also featuring the initial target prices, so that you can decide whether keeping a position on a given day is something that is in tune with your approach (some moves are too small for medium-term traders and some might appear too big for day-traders). Stop-loss levels, however, are naturally not initial, but something that, in our opinion, might be entered as an order. If theres anything urgent, we will send you an additional small alert before posting the main one. Is this a topping pattern or just another consolidation within medium-term uptrend? ===== Hand-picked precious-metals-related links: ===== In other news: ===== Thank you.
image: wikicommons Here’s some good advice. Please don’t place valuables likes money and passports in a planes overhead compartment! A couple was flying from Chicago back to Munich last week when they forgot some very precious and valuable cargo onboard. The couple left a bag containing $166,0 in the planes overhead compartment! Lucky for them, the story has a happy ending… The couple was able to go through customs using ID cards, not realizing that the bag they left behind contained their passports and American cashier’s checks – worth a total of $166,0, according to T+L. The man had just inherited the large sum of money from his mother. A cleaner saw the bag on the plane and turned it over to the airline. The airline then gave it to the local police who found the cashier’s checks inside. When the police figured out who the owners of the bag were, they had already left the airport. According to T+L the police tracked them down to their home about two hours away. Once the man was told what he had left on the plane he headed right back to the airport to claim the valuable bag!
Postpartum depression has become more visible as celebrity moms including Brooke Shields, Drew Barrymore and Chrissy Teigen have publicly shared their struggles with feeling sad and hopeless after birth. Many studies have found that testosterone dips in new fathers across the animal kingdom. Gettler also found that fathers who spent more time with their children showed lower testosterone, suggesting that testosterone may be suppressed by paternal caregiving. Along similar lines, psychologist Robin Edelstein and I found that men assessed repeatedly over their partner’s pregnancy showed declining testosterone levels from early to late pregnancy. Men whose testosterone dropped more dramatically were more likely to report postpartum commitment and investment in their romantic relationships with their partners. Lower testosterone, higher depression Previous research has linked testosterone with men’s depression levels in general. Low testosterone may contribute to the feelings of lethargy and disinterest in normally pleasurable activities that characterize depression. My colleagues and I analyzed data from the Community Child Health Research Network, a National Institutes of Health-funded study of new parents’ health and well-being. We found that dads with lower testosterone reported feeling more depressed. This fits with other research into how testosterone and depression work together. But ours is the first study to observe this relationship specifically in fathers of infants. Given that many men show drops in testosterone over the transition to parenthood, this finding may help explain why the postpartum period is such a high-risk time for depression in men. An unexpected side effect – for the moms We were surprised when we examined links between men’s testosterone and their partners’ depression. Yes, low testosterone seemed to put men at higher risk for depressive symptoms. Lower-testosterone men may be more dedicated to their relationships or spend more time with children, helping to relieve some of the pressure on moms. If men had higher testosterone, moms reported higher levels of intimate partner aggression about six months later. Testosterone is associated with more aggressive and competitive behavior. At low levels, they might be more vulnerable to depression. But at high levels, they might have less satisfying and more aggressive relationships, less happy partners and more parenting stress. In terms of resilience to depression and stress, men with average levels of postpartum testosterone seemed to fare best. Our findings reveal that men’s postpartum testosterone has a complex relationship with family health. So it makes sense that human males would show shifts in testosterone as they adapt to parenthood. But these shifts may make men more vulnerable to mood disorder symptoms. After all, caring for infants is hard, draining work. In modern industrialized societies like the United States, many new parents lack the extended family support networks that can help lighten the burden of childcare. And in the U.S., paternity leave is a rarity, and many dads struggle with family-unfriendly work arrangements that drain time and energy. Just as new moms can feel overwhelmed and isolated after spending long hours tending to their babies, so too can dads. If new dads (or moms) are experiencing depressed moods after the birth of their infants, they can take some comfort in the fact that these feelings are normal – and may even be rooted in our evolutionary biology. There’s no shame in seeking help, whether it’s talking to a friend, prioritizing sleep and exercise, or visiting a therapist. Postpartum depression affects the whole family and should be taken seriously.
Days after Steven Bannon’s blustery, accusatory interview on 60 Minutes, in which he warned the apostates blocking President Trump’s agenda that he’s coming after them, Trump confirmed it -- there is no such thing as Trumpism. Will Trump now accept better terms he wants in the Paris climate accord? Too bad for Bannon, because none of this is remotely the fault of his favorite punching bags, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan, just Trump himself. Bannon’s new self-described role as wingman growling from outside instead of inside the White House -- where as chief strategist he fought openly against the globalist forces he believed included Trump’s family members -- isn’t going very well. Trump keeps screwing things up for the Breitbart News commander. After getting fired last month he lamented to the Weekly Standard that the Trump presidency that we fought for, and won, is over. There, a president is spending political donations on legal fees while his staffers go deep in debt with mounting lawyer bills, visitor logs are kept secret so voters have no idea who is permitted into the Oval Office to influence the president, and a kleptocracy thrives where Trump and his children continue to be enriched by business connected to foreign governments, including the Chinese. Cabinet secretaries are using government planes for private use and private planes for government work -- violations that would have sparked endless Breitbart bonfires under President Obama. In reality, however, there was little left of Trumpism to trumpet even before Bannon was fired. With the backing of loyal mega-donor Robert Mercer, the Bannon forces are targeting Sen. Jeff Flake, and potentially Sens. GOP leaders are incensed over the millions more they will spend protecting those lawmakers, money that could be spent trying to knock off Democrats. Trump has endorsed Strange, also backed by McConnell. Bannon is backing the more Trumpian candidate and, well, Trump is not. Bannon, ironically, purports to be interested in protecting GOP majorities in Congress. Before he could imagine Trump giving away the store on DACA to Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, Bannon declared in his 60 Minutes interview that preserving President Obama’s executive order would cause a GOP civil war. He blames everything on Ryan and McConnell. It’s obvious as night follows day, he told Charlie Rose. In the name of Trumpism, Bannon swallows heavy doses of denial. Trump’s approval ratings remain low, Bannon said, because he hasn’t -- we haven’t gotten the wall built. Earth to Steve: Trump has signaled to Congress the wall is a joke. That shadowy force trying to nullify the 2016 election . Sam Nunberg, a close Bannonite, conceded: The reality is sinking in that the Trump administration is on the precipice of turning into an establishment presidency. But Bannon isn’t just breaking plates at Breitbart, he’s building his own brand. Last week, like any other dime-a-dozen elitist, Bannon attended an investor conference in Hong Kong. I don’t think there was any coincidence there, Nunberg told BuzzFeed. Yet his domestic bark in this regard doesn’t seem to be the same as his overseas-investor-conference bite. Once there, the New York Times described Bannon as more subdued about the purported Chinese threat. It’s a far cry from a trade war on steel. Perhaps over time, Bannonism will go the way of Trumpism. A.B. Stoddard is associate editor of RealClearPolitics and a columnist.
U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton acknowledges the crowd at a campaign rally in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, U.S. November 1, 2016. Hillary Clinton’s campaign is refocusing on Donald Trump and turning away from the latest investigation of her emails, reminding voters of all the reasons why she believes Trump is unqualified to be president. At three Florida rallies Tuesday, CBS News’ Nancy Cordes reports that Clinton ticked through her opponent’s most notorious comments about the opposite sex. I want all the girls in America to know: you are valuable, Clinton said at a rally in Fort Lauderdale. Don’t let somebody like this bully tell you otherwise! To another crowd in Dade City, Florida, she added: He calls women ugly, disgusting, nasty, all the time. For proof of her closing argument, Clinton turned to former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, who Trump publicly shamed in 1997 for gaining a little weight. He said to me, Miss Piggy, Miss Housekeeping, Miss Eating Machine, Machado said, joining Clinton in Dade City. It’s a closing argument aimed not just at female voters but also the men who love them. The Clinton campaign released a series of ads Tuesday -- all of them with the same message. I wouldn’t feel good as a father voting for somebody like that, one man says in an ad. In Columbus, Ohio, President Obama warned that Trump is unlikely to change. If you disrespected women before you were elected, you will disrespect women once you’re president, he said. But in Fort Lauderdale, a protester interrupted Clinton with a sign that said her husband, former President Bill Clinton, is a rapist -- a common sight at Clinton rallies that set her off last night. I am sick and tired of the negative, dark, divisive, dangerous divisions and behaviors of people who support Donald Trump, Clinton said. Aides to the Democratic nominee insist the race is not as tight as new polls suggest. And yet they’ve begun airing ads in four states that supposedly tilt their way: Michigan, Virginia, Colorado, and New Mexico. The campaign says that is not a sign of nervousness -- it’s a sign that they still have a startling $150 million in the bank so why not put it to good use, especially if it helps Democrats down the ballot. But that doesn’t explain why Clinton has added a stop in one of those states -- Michigan -- to an already packed schedule.
Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house on the University of Virginia campus. CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — Rolling Stone’s deputy managing editor admitted on the stand Thursday that mistakes were made with the magazine’s since-discredited campus rape story, testifying that it broke a lot of us. Everyone was yelling at us and rightfully so, Sean Woods said of the reaction to the story after gang rape claims made by a University of Virginia student, identified only as Jackie, were called into question. We needed people to know that we were addressing it as our story was falling apart. The editor testified at the defamation trial against Rolling Stone, which is being sued for $7.85 million by former UVA associate dean Nicole Eramo, who claims the magazine’s A Rape on Campus story painted her as being indifferent to Jackie’s allegations that she was gang raped at a fraternity. I’m sorry if I hurt you, Woods told Eramo in court. Do you think Ms. Eramo was hurt by this story! the former dean’s lawyer, Libby Locke, asked him angrily. I think she is a public figure and subject to criticism, Woods explained. Earlier, he’d said that none of the journalists involved with the piece ever fully recovered. You pick up the pieces and you move on, he said. I think all of our reputations were trashed. Woods said he offered to resign after they decided to retract the story in Dec. 2014, but Rolling Stone publisher Jann Wenner wouldn’t let him. He testified that he was in denial when he left a voicemail for Jackie after the story was retracted saying, We are standing behind the story. It’s like the stages of grief, he told jurors.
Chelsea Clinton strikes a pose during the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Tuesday, Aug. 26, 2008. Photos: Chelsea Clinton through The Years Photos: Presidential Daughters Photos: White House Weddings WASHINGTON Newly leaked emails show consternation among those closest to Hillary Clinton about how Bill Clinton’s business dealings might damage his reputation and potentially affect her presidential hopes. The emails, posted Monday by the WikiLeaks organization, also give insight into tension and turmoil within the Clinton Foundation while Clinton was serving as secretary of state. The chief operating officer of the family charity was reported to be threatening to commit suicide over the stress. WikiLeaks began releasing on Friday what it says are years of messages from the accounts of Clinton Campaign Chairman John Podesta. Podesta has acknowledged his emails were hacked, but warned the messages may have been altered or edited to do political damage to Clinton. It wasn’t immediately clear who hacked Podesta’s emails, though U.S. intelligence officials last week blamed the Russian government for a series of breaches and leaks intended to influence the presidential election. The emails that circulated among Podesta, Chelsea Clinton and former Bill Clinton aide Doug Band detail internal tensions that simmered inside the Clinton Foundation and appear to have played a role in Band’s departure from the family charity. Internal concerns among Clinton family intimates about Band and the private corporate advisory firm he co-founded, Teneo Holdings, have been previously detailed in several media accounts. But the new emails provide raw glimpses of an apparent power struggle between the Clintons’ daughter and Band, who worked closely for Bill Clinton for more than a decade after the end of the Clinton administration. In an email exchange from December 2011, Chelsea Clinton tells Podesta and others - including Clinton adviser and current Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe - that she’s increasingly concerned about Teneo. The email includes a forwarded news article that alleges that Bill Clinton had collected $50,0 a month through Teneo from MF Global, the commodities brokerage formerly run by former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine, while MF Global was preparing to file for bankruptcy. Chelsea Clinton told Podesta and others that two people separately came up to her at a London event for the Clinton Foundation to raise concerns that someone representing Teneo clients had been calling members of the British Parliament on behalf of President Clinton without her father’s knowledge. Chelsea Clinton said the calls had people in London making comparisons between the profit motivations of the former president and former Prime Minister Tony Blair. Which would horrify my father, Chelsea Clinton wrote. I realize it is difficult to confront and reason with her but this could go (too) far and then we all will have a real serious set of other problems, Band vented in an exchange sent to Podesta. I don’t deserve this from her and deserve a tad more respect. . She is acting like a spoiled brat kid who has nothing else to do but create issues to justify what she’s doing because she, as she has said, hasn’t found her way and has a lack of focus in her life. The emails reflect the ascendance of Chelsea Clinton - as early as 2011 - inside the family charity. The younger Clinton was recently was anointed as the Clinton Foundation’s future leader if her mother wins the presidency next month. Bill Clinton announced in August that he planned to step down from the charity’s board if his wife becomes president. Chelsea Clinton will remain on the organization’s board. Bill Clinton explained in a letter to supporters in August that he would resign and stop raising funds for the charity to eliminate legitimate concerns about potential conflicts of interest. Calls seeking comment from the Clinton Foundation and from Teneo, where Band works, received no response Monday. Also in December 2011, Clinton Foundation chief operating officer Laura Graham contacted Band to complain that stress she blamed on the former president and Chelsea Clinton was causing her to consider suicide. Band wrote that when Graham called him, she was in her car parked near the water with her foot on the gas pedal. He said he dissuaded her from hurting herself. Graham later departed the Clinton Foundation, taking a new job with the Empire State Development Corporation. Phone messages left for Graham on Monday received no response. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
As we are writing this, Donald Trump is clothed in his war regalia as he prepares for a battle with the judiciary, the press, the CIA and probably innocent Americans. The good news is that we have a powerful and high-ranking military officer is not going to let Trump oppress the world. Air Force Chief of Staff Dave Goldfein may not have called Trump out directly, but his words are pointed at the president. In his interview with the press, Goldfein didn’t spare words of wisdom that Trump should better listen to. Earlier this week, President Trump aka ‘Orange Tyrant’ was at the MacDill Air Force Base to give his ridiculous and meaningless speeches. Imagine what he told the military officers who left what they should be doing to listen to him if they don’t like him, he is not going to like them. Barely a day after the president made this comment; Goldfein apparently seemed to implicitly attack what the president said. He said that This is a great opportunity to step back and remind ourselves and the American people of the oath we take as members of the military. Goldfein said that the oath they too and they always retake every time they were promoted was to defend and support the American Constitution against any enemy both in the domestic and foreign arena. By design, these military officers do not pledge to defend or support any leader or party because they are apolitical. The military is not too friendly with the president according to Goldfein, one day; the military may be protecting the people from Trump. Goldfein indirectly criticized the disastrous raid in Yemen authorized by Trump, the assurance of Trump that the SEAL was going to have a field only pointed out that he was a local fish without the experience of swimming in the international waters. One of the things that Goldfein is proud of is the fact that the military cannot lose sight that they go to war with their values. People who are critical of the efforts that the military undertakes each day to stop causalities are not aware of who the military are. Indeed, Goldfein is a true patriot who defends the real values of American. We are happy with the service that he is offering passionately to our country to ensure that our ideals are maintained. It doesn’t look like the upper class of the military really like Trump. They have rejected the requested Trump made for the military to go for the fascist-style military parade for his Inauguration Day. It is time for each one of us to stand up.
(ThyBlackMan.com) Even though I am black, I was raised on Superman’s; truth, justice and the American way. As a kid, I watched my mom cry over I Love Lucy TV stars Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz getting a divorce. When President JFK said, Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country, I believe a majority of Americans agreed with him. For years, I sang my song, Celebrate America at Naturalization Oath of Allegiance Ceremonies. I witnessed thousands of immigrants who jumped through all the hoops, learned our language and history and tearfully pledged their allegiance. I still remember a gentleman who appeared to be in his 90s, raised to his feet from a wheelchair by a grandchild on each arm. Their entire family wept as he took his oath. Clearly, it meant something extremely special to become an American. It pained me deeply watching Obama lower the bar, redefining and dumbing down what it means to be an American. Assuming Hillary would win the WH, Obama figured his illegal invaders would eventually be gifted voting rights. In essence, Barack Obama took the majestic shine off of becoming an American. The late queen of cosmetics, Mary Kay Ash said the speed of the leader is the speed of the gang. Unarguably, Obama’s disdain and disrespect for Americanism trickled down infecting our country. Public schools banned the singing of God Bless the to be an America. Multimillionaire pro athletes refused to stand for our national anthem, proclaiming themselves victims of America. Their example of dissing our flag trickled down to high and middle school athletes across America. Due to decades of our Leftist controlled public schools abandoning teaching U.S. history, far too many Americans quickly surrendered their precious God-given and fought for freedom and liberty for a free Obama phone and his promise to Robin Hood the rich. Ben Franklin said, Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety. Barack Obama actually launched an ad campaign begging illegals to apply for food stamps. Using a Hispanic soap opera , Barack Obama told illegals that applying for as many U.S. government freebie programs as possible was the honorable thing to do for their families. It was also painful watching Barack Obama insidiously divide Americans into supposed victimized voting blocs; blacks, Hispanics, women, transgenders and so on. Suddenly, we became an entitlement-minded gimme-society; everyone running around claiming America abused them and therefore owed them a living. I kept thinking what the heck is going on. I wanted to scream from the roof tops, This is not who we are. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that Mark Levin recently penned a book in which he brilliantly articulated the source of my heartache for my country; the well-orchestrated cultural and moral decline of America. Levin’s book is titled, Rediscovering Americanism And The Tyranny of Progressivism The good news is Donald Trump winning the WH in an electoral landslide proves that despite decades of Leftists trying to convince Americans that we are the greatest source of evil in the world, the masses still love our country and long to see her made great again. And for that, I am extremely hopeful and grateful. Prayerfully, Trump will usher in us becoming Americans again. Staff Writer; Lloyd Marcus Chairman of The Campaign to Defeat Barack Obama. Please help me spread my message by joining my Liberty Network.
Only hours after President Donald Trumps aide, Kellyanne Conway, had a fiery exchange with CNNs Chris Cuomo over whether or not the White House was obsessed about Hillary Clinton, the president completely undercut her argument. Disproven and paid for by Democrats Dossier used to spy on Trump Campaign. Did FBI use Intel tool to influence the Election? @foxandfriends Did Dems or Clinton also pay Russians? Where are hidden and smashed DNC servers? Nobody here talks about her," Conway said. " Nobody here talks about Hillary Clinton, I promise you." " Kellyanne Conway claimed that while many cannot get over the 2016 presidential election, the White House does not talk about Hillary Clinton. 73q9nZnF5 — CNN (@CNN) January 11, 2018 Conway also asserted that the public still had not gotten over the election and that most havent moved on. Trump, however, was handing out electoral maps last year touting his victory. " So many people can’t get over the election results," Conway said. Cuomo fired back, "Says my friend who can’t keep Hillary Clinton’s name out of her mouth." " Im not, I havent mentioned the election once," Cuomo replied. In recent months, Conway has tweeted about Clinton on numerous occasions herself. It took Hillary abt 5 minutes to blame NRA for madmans rampage, but 5 days to sorta-kinda blame Harvey Weinstein 4 his sexually assaults. — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) October 10, 2017 So, Hillary blames Bernie 4 Trumps "Crooked Hillary", blames Obama 4 "lay off Bernie", blames Bernie Bros 4 sexism. — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) September 5, 2017 The two continued to talk over each other, and Cuomo brought up the alleged Russian election meddling, as well as the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting in which top Trump campaign officials met with a Russian lawyer with potential ties to the Kremlin in order to receive dirt on Clinton. " The idea that we would have to look any further than Hillary Clinton to beat Hillary Clinton is a fantasy," Conway said. The CNN host added, "Is we inconclusive of Don Jr., Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort, who went to a meeting with a Russian lawyer who was promising dirt on Hillary Clinton?" " Thats not the point," Cuomo emphasized. " In essence, Conways behavior was a larger metaphor of the Trump presidency. The exchange didnt end on television, though, continuing on Twitter Thursday morning. So fun to see the predictable heads exploding, but I shouldve finished that sentence #CuomoPrimeTime @CNN. " Nobody in the White House talks about Hillary Clinton" when noting whose presidential leadership = historic tax cuts &amp; economic boom, reg reform, put ISIS in retreat. — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) January 11, 2018 hey kellyanne - good thing no one talks about hrc in the white house. Christopher C. Cuomo (@ChrisCuomo) January 11, 2018 Hey @ChrisCuomo - when we are forced to about hrc its because you and your colleagues cant let go of an election lost. Sad!Proven further by after a 30-minute interview about policy and accomplishments, HRC is all you and others can say. We only have to talk about her because people wont let go of an election she lost miserably." -- @KellyannePolls on Hillary to @foxandfriends this morning. Chris Cillizza (@CillizzaCNN) January 11, 2018
The newly-installed constitutional assembly led by President Nicolas Maduro has ousted Venezuelas chief prosecutor on Saturday, a move that signals that the embattled government is making swift moves to consolidate power. Hails of "traitor" and "justice has arrived" erupted from the 545 pro-government delegates during the unanimous vote to remove the top law enforcement official, Luisa Ortega, from her post. The assembly replaced her with a staunch government supporter. The delegates said they were acting in response to a ruling by the government-attacked Supreme Court, which was separately considering a request to sanction Ortega. Speaking to journalists after her removal, Ortega said dozens of national guardsmen in riot gear barred her from entering her office, alleging that authorities wanted to get their hands on sensitive information implicating high-level officials in dirty dealings. " Do you know what they want to achieve with this? They want to hide the corruption and violation of human rights taking place in Venezuela that I will continue to denounce," Ortega said. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro plans to seat a new controversial constituent assembly in an effort to rewrite the countrys constitution despite continued opposition protests. The new legislative bodys constitution would nullify the other branches of government, leading opposition leaders to call on citizens to protest in the streets in objection. Maduro is expected to seat the 545-member body at the legislative palace in the capital of Caracas on Friday, just yards from the opposition-led National Assembly. He plans to attend the assemblys opening session and promised to use the assembly itself to attack his political opponents. " The only way theyll get us out of here is by killing us," National Assembly first vice president Freddy Guevara told the Associated Press. " They will never have a seat that the people of Venezuela gave us." Maduros assembly was elected on Sunday, despite opposition claims that the election itself was rigged in favor of Maduro supporters, resulting in a boycott. The U.S. State Department condemned the assembly on Thursday, claiming the rigged election only served to empower "the Maduro dictatorship." Several U.S. lawmakers joined in the condemnation, including Sen. Marco Rubio who issued a message of support to the Venezuelan people in Spanish. " At a time of deep divisions in our own politics, both the left and the right here in the United States support the people of Venezuela and condemn the Maduro government," said Rubio. " Even those who sympathized and defended the late Hugo Chavez, condemn the direction Nicolas Maduro has taken your country." The senator added that Venezuelans are "only a free and fair election away from a better future." Sen. Bob Menendez, senior member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, claimed a "sham election" was used to elect the pro-Maduro assembly. " Nicolas Maduros decision to move forward with a sham election to create a constituent assembly and shred his countrys constitution offers yet another disturbing example of how dangerously unfit this man is to lead country," said Menendez in a statement released on Monday. Venezuelas legislative palace has been the scene of violent protests in recent weeks. Three months of bloody protests and a beleaguered economy have taken a serious toll on Venezuelans. Conditions are expected to worsen should Maduro and his supporters be successful in rewriting the constitution. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Spanish police are looking for the missing migrants According to the mayor of the Cadiz town Rota, on Spains southernmost coast, the authorities have found 12 of the migrants after they fled on foot and are looking for 30 others. It has been reported in the Spanish media that all of the asylum seekers are men and the missing migrants fled by running into nearby fields when they arrived. Around 30 migrants are on the run Wed, February 15, 2017 Migrants clash with each other in over crowded camps across Europe. Moroccan Police look at immigrants trying to jump the six-meter-high fence in Ceuta, Spanish enclave on the north of Africa, 09 December 2016. The 12 migrants who have been found are from the sub-Sahara and Morocco and they arrived on the beach known as Juan and Juana. A crane has moved the dinghy from the beach where the migrants managed to paddle their craft ashore despite strong winds in the area. In October, dozens of migrants protested about the living conditions in a Spanish detention centre. Thousands of migrants have come to Spain from Africa The protesters held up banners demanding freedom and dignity. After thousands of migrants from Africa crossed over to Spain in 2014 and 2015, the country’s authorities stepped up security and passed a law enabling its border police to refuse migrants the opportunity to apply for asylum. The European Union (EU) is now desperately attempting to cut the number of African migrants making their way to Europe. Thousands of migrants have targeted Spain as a route into the EU and the UK. Migrants have particularly targeted the Spanish colonies of Ceuta and Melilla in Morocco.
Hollywood will not easily recover from Harvey Weinstein -- not for a long time. The hypocrisy level has hit Defcon 1, 9.9 on the Richter scale. Hollywood’s politics have always been a self-serving charade, a liberal masquerade for a rapacious and lubricious lifestyle. But now, thanks to the Weinstein scandal, we see it more clearly than ever. I had always thought Bill Clinton would have made the greatest studio executive of all time. If conservative investors had any courage, this would be the time to make a hostile takeover of the movie business. I know this from bitter personal experience. Wealthy conservatives are delighted to support the Philharmonic, but when it comes to popular culture they turn away, as if afraid to get their hands dirty. That this is a huge mistake should be obvious. They have abandoned the culture -- and our children -- to the creepiest people imaginable. What is going on in Hollywood is far from being just about Harvey. So many previously silent assaulted or raped women are coming out of the woodwork, it seems like a long-belated remake of Cheaper by the Dozen. No one knows who will be next or if it will stop at Harvey. The rot is everywhere, even, perhaps especially, in the precincts of high art. Gwyneth Paltrow says now is the time to put an end to these attacks on women. But where was she years ago when Harvey got handsy with her? Looking the other way while earning millions and garnering Oscars. Meryl Streep claimed she was clueless about Weinstein’s repulsive antics. Time to award her her greatest Oscar yet -- for playing someone deaf, dumb, and blind while living as a troglodyte in the Gobi desert. Either the woman’s a liar or an utter nincompoop. As for the great feminist George Clooney -- the first male star out of the box to condemn Weinstein’s behavior -- let’s give him the Nobel Prize in virtue signaling. By coming forward, he was able to ace out his competition -- Howard Zinn-loving Matt Damon, who disgraced himself forever by covering up for Harvey a decade ago. ( For those who may have missed it in the onslaught of sleazy details, Damon assured then New York Times reporter Sharon Waxman that Miramax’s high-paid Italian representative was a genuine creative film executive and not Harvey’s European procurer, as was, evidently correctly, rumored. Damon is the same progressive movie star who makes films opposing school choice for the masses while living in a thirty million dollar house and sending his kids to private school. I take it back -- maybe we should give him the Nobel in virtue signaling.)
(Source: KWES) ODESSA, TX (KWES) - An Odessa man and his company are donating $1 million to the American Red Cross towards Hurricane Harvey relief efforts. The Red Cross said theyre expecting to spend $30 million from their funds on the rebuilding. As The Red Cross is helping with the aftermath, theyre also preparing for an even stronger hurricane to hit the country. " This is a marathon, its not a sprint, so this is gonna go a long way to help those people recover," said Tracy Austin, Executive Director of the American Red Cross of The Permian Basin. John Bushman, owner of Investment Centers of America (ICA), decided to give back after watching families and single mothers trying to survive the high floodwaters. So all she [single mother] can do is put out a white flag for the police to come help her. Shes just standing there with an 8-month-old baby in her arms, I dont know where the other two minor children were that got mentioned were, probably on top of the roof already," said Bushman. " So if that doesnt bring tears to your eyes or makes you think, then I dont know [what will]." The American Red Cross cant ignore a stronger hurricane, Irma. Irma could possibly hit Florida or the east coast, needing the American Red Cross to give even more help. " We will deploy and we encourage everyone to take cover, to go to their shelters, and also to prepare in advance," said Austin. " Right now, thats our messaging to make those preparations in advance and to take cover and go to a shelter because this is going to be a massive storm." The American Red Cross wont know what help to deploy until after Hurricane Irma makes landfall. Even though many resources are in South Texas, they say theyre "Red Cross ready." You can donate or sign up to volunteer at redcross.org Copyright 2017 KWES.
Rolling Stone contributing editor Sabrina Rubin Erdely, front, and Rolling Stone magazine Deputy Managing Editor Sean Woods, right, walk with their legal team to federal court in Charlottesville, Va., Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2016. University of Virginia administrator Nicole Eramo is seeking $7.5 million from the magazine over its portrayal of her in a 2014 story written by Rubin Erdely. Closing arguments in the case are continuing. CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. - The reporter of a botched Rolling Stone article about a brutal gang rape at the University of Virginia willfully ignored facts and statements that disproved her preconceived storyline about the school’s callousness toward sexual-assault victims, an attorney for the former associate dean of students said in his closing arguments Tuesday. University administrator Nicole Eramo is seeking $7.5 million from the magazine over its portrayal of her in the 2014 story by Sabrina Rubin Erdely about the alleged sexual assault of a woman identified only as Jackie. Eramo claims she was unfairly portrayed in the article as trying to sweep Jackie’s sexual assault under the rug in order to protect the university. Attorney Tom Clare argued Tuesday that Erdely set out from the beginning to tell a story of institutional indifference, brushed off statements from her sources that didn’t fit that narrative and pushed her own views about the administration onto the vulnerable women she was interviewing. Once they decided what the article was going to be about, it didn’t matter what the facts were, Clare said. The story about Jackie’s rape set off a firestorm at the University of Virginia and in schools nationwide and prompted police to launch an investigation into the alleged assault. Eramo received hundreds of angry letters and emails and faced protesters outside her office. The story crumbled after other news outlets began asking questions and police found no evidence to back up Jackie’s claims. The article was officially retracted in April 2015. Eramo must prove that Rolling Stone statements about her made her appear odious, infamous or ridiculous and that the magazine acted with actual malice, meaning it knew that what it was writing about her was false or should have known it was false. A lawyer for Rolling Stone, Scott Sexton, said in closing statements there is no evidence the magazine knew a botched story about a gang rape at the University of Virginia was false before publishing it. While the women Erdely interviewed - including Jackie - told her that Eramo was their fiercest advocate, Clare argued that Erdely was so invested in her preconceived storyline that she was blind to the facts. He argued that Erdely purposely set out to make Eramo the villain because she knew she was an easy target and couldn’t speak publicly about Jackie’s case due to federal privacy laws. It’s reckless, it’s cavalier and it’s intentional, Clare said. Over the course of the more than two-week trial, the 10 jurors have watched 11 hours of video testimony, heard from a dozen live witnesses and have examined nearly 300 exhibits. Seven jurors will deliberate and three will be named as alternates. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Jan. 5, 2017, with the Congressional Black Caucus members to discuss the nomination of Sen Jeff Sessions for attorney general. ( AP Gibson) WASHINGTON, D.C. (WTHR) - Indiana lawmakers in Washington are joining the chorus against white supremacist groups. is co-sponsoring legislation with more than 30 members of Congress that calls for President Donald Trump "to strongly condemn white nationalists, the Ku Klux Klan, and other hate groups that make up the alt-right." The lawmakers are also demanding the president fire officials in the Trump administration who support white supremacists, specifically naming Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller and Sebastian Gorka. BREAKING: Ive introduced a resolution with 31 co-sponsors demanding Trump fire any staff whove endorsed or supported white supremacists. pic.twitter.com/2WuGMqhQPa— Rep. Pramila Jayapal (@RepJayapal) August 15, 2017 "The President of the United States and his advisors should serve as an example to the rest of the country," Rep. Carson said. " As the country unites against this violent and hateful movement, people who fail to stand up to white nationalism and neo-Nazism should not be in a position of power." The legislation, outlined in a release from Carsons office, also calls for Trump to "use all available resources" to address the growth of hate groups in the country and to "unite all Americans against hate." took to Twitter Tuesday evening to denouce the groups:
One day, she noticed an older woman making a bizarre purchase. The woman was buying $2,0 worth of iTunes gift cards. Yost asked the woman why she was buying so many gift cards. The elderly woman said her granddaughter was in jail with a broken nose and that she needed to buy the gift cards to bail her out. She was terrified for her granddaughter’s well-being. I want to let you know your granddaughter is OK. This is a scam that we know happens, Yost told her, but the woman refused to believe it. I asked her if she would please wait, and let me call the Sylvania police, so they could tell her that they would never accept gift cards as payment for somebody in jail. Yost stalled the frightened woman for as long as she could while she quickly slipped away to call the police. Yost also noticed the woman had a keychain from an assisted living facility and called them. The police arrived and talked the woman down. The assisted living facility was grateful. The next day, they showed up, and they were the most genuine people, said Yost. They hugged me so tight and thanked me over and over. And they handed me a card, which I took and said ‘Thank you’. When I opened it later, there was super-nice gift in there. Please SHARE if you think Yost went above and beyond what any cashier would normally do! Due to restrictions, this video cannot be viewed in your region.
MSNBC anchor Nicolle Wallace Former George W. Bush communications director Nicolle Wallace reported Tuesday multiple senior Republican officials have told her that to expect that special counsel Robert Mueller is pursuing an obstruction of justice case against President Donald Trump. Three Republicans with close ties to the Trump White House, all veterans from previous Republican administrations, tell me that it’s clear from their conversations and contacts with the president’s inner circle that Bob Mueller is trying to build an obstruction of justice case, MSNBC host of Deadline: White House reported Tuesday. One of them going even farther and saying that the White House is now flying blind and doesn’t know who else might already be cooperating with Mueller’s team, Wallace explained. That was not the only major news Wallace broke in the first minutes of her show. Wallace also introduced former U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg, who worked on the staff of both Robert Mueller and James Comey of the FBI. Would you surmise that Donald Trump’s taxes are something that Bob Mueller either has or will seek to obtain? I was a federal prosecutor for a long time and a white collar prosecutor, at the beginning of any case what you need are leads, how do you get those? The first thing you do, you get credit reports and you get tax returns, Rosenberg explained. I don’t know that they have the tax returns, but I know what white collar tax attorneys do, they get tax returns, Rosenberg noted.
The 100 Funniest Tweets From the Unending Nightmare Thats Been the 2016 Election Illustration by Shakeil Greeley for GQ / Getty Images Laugh to stop yourself from crying. There are only seven days left in the 2016 presidential. Seven more days and, barring a last-minute constitutional crisis, this non-stop misery ride will finally be over. All we know is that the 2016 election has done to American democracy what cocaine did to Gary Buseys career, and, much like being stuck in an elevator with Gary Busey, its hard not to pray for the sweet release of death. A presidential candidate bragging about sexual assault, a presidential candidate threatening to put is political opponent in jail, dog-whistle racism, actual straight-up racism; its fair to say were at a historic low-point in the story of American democracy. If only President Obama could wipe the Internet clean before he leaves office, so we never have to be reminded of this god-awful mess ever again. All that said, there was one bright light during these dark times: Twitter.com. Previously home to die-hard One Direction fans and a few hundred-thousand accounts pretending to be Will Ferrell, Twitter was undoubtedly responsible for some of this election cycles most vile rhetoric—I mean, just look at Trumps tweets. But theres no denying it also came into its own during the 2016 election. It wasnt fun watching Donald Trump routinely debase our countrys political system, but Im not going to pretend the well-crafted tweets that sparked into existence as a result werent also a welcome catharsis. To commemorate this bizarre time in our nations history, weve compiled a chronological list of the 100 funniest* tweets of this genuinely terrible, and mostly unfunny, election. Hopefully, if theres anything left in the smoldering rubble that will be America after November 8th, they can be a reminder that there was at least some good in the parade of garbage. Now lets all agree to never ever do this ever again. * TRENDING THIS VERY SECOND travel-and-eats Where to Eat and Drink in Houston, the New Capital of Southern Cool culture Serena Williams Catsuit Is Banned from All Future French Opens news-and-politics No One Knows Why This QAnon Conspiracy Theorist Was in the Oval Office with Trump /status/695438054887026688 16. /status/772477614191742976 /status/772835879043928064 57. /status/792078001064280064 Up next: Trump Is Right: This Email Debacle Is Worse Than Watergate
Fulfilling his role as the titular head of The Resistance, Barack Obama took to Facebook Tuesday to snipe at the Trump administration’s announcement that it was rescinding the 44th president’s 2012 executive action called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. It’s not the fault of the dreamers that their parents brought them here, without papers, as minors. For that answer, Obama needn’t take to social media. Ten years ago, a narrow consensus was forged in Washington, if only briefly. Its architects were Edward Kennedy and John McCain. It also provided a path to citizenship for an estimated 11.6 million illegal immigrants, provided they paid a fine and back taxes, met English and civics requirements, and stayed on the right side of the law. Conservatives dismissed the path-to-citizenship as a fig leaf for amnesty. McCain and Kennedy could have overcome that opposition, albeit narrowly, except for one last little group of senators. Call it the Senate Presidential Wannabe Caucus. As everyone in the Senate understood, this was a poison pill designed not to shore up the bill, but sink it. The amendment passed 49-48, essentially killing comprehensive immigration reform. Ted Kennedy, who ended up endorsing Obama over Clinton anyway, believed this, too. Kennedy died in 2009 before he could convince Obama to revisit this issue. The chance for a legislative solution had come and gone. But what about a non-legislative solution? In June 2012, with shifting public opinion polls now in his favor, Obama issued DACA, which he called a temporary, stopgap measure to curb the practice of deporting undocumented Americans brought to this country before their 16th birthday. It might have been, had the president announced that because his Justice Department lacked the personnel to adequately adjudicate 11 million cases, it was necessary to prioritize law enforcement’s areas of emphasis and that, henceforth, no federal government resources would be spent on deporting the Dreamers. He announced a formal new government program granting work permits to those without papers. This temporary, stopgap measure superseded existing federal immigration law and, two years later, Obama sought to expand DACA, prompting a legal challenge from several states. I am president, I am not king, he said that October. Now, I know some people want me to bypass Congress and change the laws on my own. Believe me, the idea of doing things on my own is very tempting … but thats not how our system works. Thats not how our Constitution is written. Luis Gutiérrez, an Illinois congressman, called White House Chief of Staff John Kelly a disgrace to the uniform he used to wear over DACA. Well, John Kelly is a Gold Star dad, too. Hillary Clinton’s erstwhile rival had this to say: Trump’s decision on DACA is the ugliest and most cruel decision ever made by a president of the U.S. in the modern history of this country. When one considers Woodrow Wilson re-segregating the federal workforce or FDR interning 110,0 Japanese-Americans who committed no crime, the thought occurs that this is possibly the most ignorant utterance by a U.S. senator in the modern history of this country. Nancy Pelosi described it as cowardice and cruelty. One wonders if this was DNC-circulated messaging, drawn up by some 24-year-old staffer. Perhaps they were written by a certain ex-president trying to help us forget that when he and Hillary Clinton -- along with Barbara Boxer, Harry Reid, Chuck Schumer, and Bernie Sanders -- had the chance to grant 11 million immigrants access to the American Dream, they instead chose, for partisan purposes, to keep them in the shadows.
Harvey grew into a hurricane on Thursday and authorities have reinforced their warnings as wind speeds have risen to 125 mph. Harvey could potentially be the fiercest hurricane to hit the United States in years. Such strong gusts are expected to be accompanied by 3 feet of rain and 12-foot storm surges. Forecasters have called Harvey a "life-threatening storm" and say that million of people could be swamped as the storm moves through counties inland. ( The Associated Press contributed to this report) The National Hurricane Center has issued an advisory on Thursday, instructing Texas residents along the Gulf of Mexico coast to "rush" their preparations as hurricane Harvey strengthens. The hurricane is forecast to become a Category 3 hurricane with sustained winds of 80 mph, according to National Hurricane Center. The center reportedThursday afternoon that the tropical storm will make landfall late Friday night or early Saturday morning along the south-central Texas coast. " Harvey has intensified quickly this morning, and is now forecast to be a major hurricane at landfall, bringing life-threatening storm surge, rainfall, and wind hazards to portions of the Texas coast," the center wrote. People residing like coastal cities like Corpus Christi were encouraged to evacuate from their homes on Thursday. The mayor Joe McComb, called for people to leave in the "strongest possible terms." Some are surprised how much the hurricane has strengthened. A hurricane warning was issued for the Texas coast early Thursday, blanketing an area from Port Mansfield to Matagorda. Forecasters indicated that Harvey could become a hurricane after regaining tropical storm strength and began drifting towards the Gulf of Mexico. Harvey’s maximum sustained winds increased to near 60 mph Thursday, re-establishing its status as a tropical storm. The U.S. National Hurricane Center said additional strengthening is expected, resulting in Harvey emerging as a hurricane by the time its expected to reach Texas’s southern coast Friday. Some Twitter users on Thursday voiced alarm over Harvey, while others noted its name’s resemblance to comedian Steve Harvey. Harvey was centered about 335 miles southeast of Port Mansfield around 8 a.m. local time Thursday and heading north-northwest at about 10 mph. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) ordered the State Operations Center to elevate its readiness level, freeing up resources there for possible rescue and recovery maneuvers. The governor also pre-emptively declared a state of disaster for 30 counties on or near the Texas coast to speed the deployment of state resources to those impacted. Texas emergency officials on Wednesday asked residents along the state’s upper coastline to relocate or prepare to head inland. People in low-lying areas were urged to seek higher ground, and individuals elsewhere were instructed to closely follow official announcements. Rice farmers in coastal Matagorda County late Wednesday rushed to harvest their crops as Harvey nears. People on South Padre Island, for their part, filled sandbags that evening to protect exposed businesses and houses from the storm. Other locations in the forecast path, finally, sought out generators, plywood and other goods from hardware stores as a safety precaution. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The most self-confident man or woman knows that it doesn’t take much skill to walk up behind them, point a gun to the back of their head, and pull the trigger. Damond, of course, was the woman shot and killed by Officer Mohamed Noor on July 15 while attempting to report the sound of a woman screaming behind her house. Dehn, of course, knows this and is attempting to capitalize on it at the polls by painting police with a broad brush as incompetent and unnecessarily armed. It’s an empty proposal made at an opportune time. According to the Washington Post OIS Database, of the 574 civilians killed in officer-involved shootings so far this year, Damond is one of five unarmed women. The other four casualties on this list are Sariah Marie Lane, Ambroshia Fagre, Elena Mondragon, and Alteria Woods. No compatible source was found for this video. All four vehicles were used as deadly weapons by their drivers as they rammed police in attempts to get away. Woods, on the other hand, was used as a human shield by her boyfriend during a SWAT raid targeting him and his father for multiple shootings. The trend continues if we go back a few years. In 2016, three unarmed women were killed by police. Jessica Williams was shot in San Francisco after nearly trapping one officer between a fence and the stolen vehicle she was attempting to flee in. Kelsey Hauser was killed riding as a passenger in a stolen vehicle when her boyfriend attempted to run over officers after leading them on a high-speed pursuit in California. India Kager was killed in Virginia while driving a vehicle with a homicide suspect in the passenger seat. The second was a 55-year old woman named Bettie Jones during a domestic violence call in Chicago. The third, Autumn Steele, was shot by an officer responding to a domestic violence call in Iowa. That leaves Justine Damond in a class of her own. Like I said, her death is the anomaly of all anomalies. Despite advances in proficiency for firearms training over the course of several decades, 27 police officers have already been murdered by gunfire in the line of duty this year. What we’ll also all tell you is that the level of skill a cop possesses matters little if someone is hellbent on killing them. An easy response for anyone telling you Dehn is onto something is to tell them that many of the gunfire-related deaths American police get hit with each year are ambushes. Allen, he hadn’t even gotten the chance to get out of his holster. Many officers feel like this job is punishing whether we do our jobs or we don’t. We’re trained to carry guns to save the lives of others and our own. If we don’t use deadly force when we should, we’re screwed. If we do use it when we should, we’re still screwed. We are not Great Britain, Ireland, or France. People don’t use machetes to hack at us, or vehicles to run us over. They come at us with guns—and we require our own to stand a chance. Whether it be Minneapolis, Portland, Seattle, San Francisco, or Berkeley, mark my words, the progressive metropolis that turns officers into guinea pigs for this social experiment will find itself without a test subject—and without a police force.
Photo via Gage (CC-BY-SA) Screenshot via John (Fair Use) The infamous Access Hollywood tape in which Donald Trump brags about his ability to grab women with impunity because he’s famous is real, Access Hollywood‘s hosts asserted on Monday—just in case the president had any doubts. In response to a report that Trump was questioning the authenticity of the 2005 hot-mic recording, which captured the former reality TV star saying he could grab [women] by the pussy, Access Hollywood host Natalie Morales said on Monday’s show that the tap is, in fact, very real. We wanted to clear something up that has been reported across the media landscape. Let us make this perfectly clear: The tape is very real, Morales said. Remember his excuse at the time was ‘locker room talk.’ TRUMP: The "Access Hollywood" tape might be fake After the Washington Post revealed the tape ahead of the 2016 presidential election, Trump apologized and at no time stated that the tape was faked. When CNN’s Anderson Cooper pressed Trump on whether he understood that what he said was an admission of sexual assault, Trump pushed back, dismissing his comments as locker room talk. I don’t think you understand what was said, Trump responded to Cooper during an October 2016 presidential debate. I apologized to my family, I apologized to the American people. Certainly, I’m not proud of it, but this was locker room talk. Following publication of the tape, at least 16 women came forward to say Trump sexually harassed or assaulted them. test test News that Trump reportedly questioned the tape’s veracity—once to a senator and, more recently, once to an adviser, according to the New York Times—brought the tape back to the surface amid an outpouring of allegations against high-profile men across entertainment, politics, and media. During Monday’s press briefing, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders refused to address Trump’s reported skepticism of the tape’s legitimacy and characterized the tape as unimportant because Trump won the election. The president addressed this, this was litigated and certainly answered during the election by the overwhelming support for the president and the fact he’s sitting here in the Oval Office today, she said.
The slaughter that happened last Sunday evening in Las Vegas, when an American man shot randomly into a crowd of around 22,0 at a music festival, was the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history. It also continued a pattern of terrorist attacks: all terrorists who have carried out lethal attacks in the U.S. since 9/11 have been citizens or permanent residents. In Trump’s first speech to Congress, he claimed the vast majority of individuals convicted of terrorism and terrorism-related offenses since 9/11 came here from outside of our country. That is a flat-out lie that earned Trump  four Pinocchios — the most dishonest rating given by fact checkers at Washington Post. Here’s the truth: 154 people have been murdered by terrorists on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001; according to the New America Foundation, all of these murderers were U.S. citizens or legal residents. This means of course that none of these terrorists came from the countries listed in Trump’s travel ban, even though the United States is supposedly a safer place thanks to the travel ban. In fact, as New America points out: None of the deadly attackers since 9/11 emigrated or came from a family that emigrated from one of these countries nor were any of the 9/11 attackers from the listed countries. Eight of the lethal attackers were born American citizens. This is not to deny that there have been deadly attacks since 9/11 that have been inspired by jihadism and foreign terror groups. The deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history prior to the Las Vegas killings took place in June 2016, when Omar Mateen, an ISIS-inspired terrorist who was an American-born citizen of Afghan descent, opened fire at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, murdering 49 people and injuring another 53. Nor can we ignore the vicious attacks carried out by ISIS militants that have killed or injured hundreds of people in England, France and Canada. Just this week two women were killed in a stabbing attack in Marseille, France, by a man allegedly promoting Islamic extremism. In the U.S. however, more terrorist attacks have been carried out by white American men than jihadists. Here are a few of those attacks, as highlighted by Vox: Last Sunday night, October 1, a 64-year-old white man from Mesquite, Nevada, opened rapid fire on a concert audienceof over 22,0 music lovers in Las Vegas. So far 59 people are known to have died and over 500 were wounded. In August, a 20-year-old white supremacist from Ohio plowed his car into a crowd of people protesting the Unite the Right rally, killing Heather Heyer and injuring at least 19 others. In May, a 35-year-old white man, Jeremy Joseph Christian from Oregon, screamed anti-Muslim threats at two Muslim teenagers on a train in Portland. When two men stepped in to protect the young women, he stabbed them both to death and wounded a third man. In March, a 28-year-old white man traveled from Baltimore to New York City with the goal of murdering black men. New York authorities charged him with terrorism after he stabbed 66-year-old Timothy Caughman to death. Reaching back further in time, remember Charleston, South Carolina and Sandy Hook, Connecticut? In the years since 9/11, the U.S. has been responsible for thousands of deaths, including 7,0 of its own soldiers, in the War on Terror. Americans troops are still fighting and dying in Afghanistan and Iraq. With the Taliban going strong, Trump recently announced his decision to send more troops to Afghanistan. The invasion of Iraq by the U.S. helped destabilize the entire region and lead to the creation of ISIS, which has been waging its brutal war in the Middle East since then. And let’s not forget the American complicity in the destruction of Yemen. The U.S. has sold billions of dollars worth of deadly weapons to Saudi Arabia, which has used them to attack Yemeni civilians, resulting in the deaths of over 10,0 people. Far from facing this hypocrisy, Trump is now talking about revising export regulations to make it even easier for American arms manufacturers to sell to international buyers. Meanwhile Trump has put in place a travel ban on visitors from mainly Muslim-majority countries, who are fleeing from this deadly chaos. If you agree the Muslim ban is cruel and misguided, please sign this Care2 petition, telling Trump to stand up for American values and abolish the immigration ban.
Hillary Clinton apparently cant escape the " deep state." The Daily Beast reported Thursday that the Department of Justice has taken an interest in a familiar subject — the infamous email server of the former Democratic presidential candidate and her alleged bungling of classified information. Citing a source close to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, The Daily Beast claims that the Justice Department wants to know how those tasked with investigating Clintons private email server went about their probe. DOJ officials are also reportedly interested in tallying the classified material contained in her emails and finding out "who put that information into an unclassified environment," The Daily Beast says. Before Clinton was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the FBI in July 2016, the former secretary of state claimed that many of the emails on her server were classified after the fact or that she was unaware of which "headers" denoted that an email was classified. Clintons emails are a favorite grievance of President Trump, who has repeatedly called for his erstwhile political rival to be investigated again. As such, people within the DOJ are reportedly concerned that Trumps vocal tweets on the matter could cause the impression that the law enforcement agency is only doing the presidents bidding. An unnamed former DOJ official even suggested to The Daily Beast that it was "an open question" if this inquiry would occur "without a political directive from the White House." The Justice Department would not comment on the reported inquiry to The Daily Beast.
Another day, another uncomfortably shady revelation about Donald Trumps presidential campaign and possible connections to Russia. This time, its the news that FBI investigators wiretapped Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort not once, but two times before and after the presidential election, per a CNN report. The news source reported on Sept. 18 that the surveillance continued into the early part of 2017, when Manafort had long since left the Trump team but was still in communications with the President. Several sources told CNN that the intelligence which the investigation collected included communications that sparked concerns… that Manafort had encouraged the Russians to help with the campaign, though at least two sources specifically added that the evidence wasnt conclusive. Manafort was surveilled under a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) warrant, which must be backed with information showing suspicion that the subject could be acting as an agent of a foreign power. The warrant must be approved by top officials in the FBI and the Department of Justice. Notably, theres a big piece of the puzzle missing. CNN reports that the FBI was not surveilling Manafort during the now-infamous meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and a Russian lawyer with Kremlin connections in June 2016, which then-campaign manager Manafort and Trumps son-in-law and current White House adviser Jared Kushner also attended. But even with the missing pieces, the fact that government investigators were able to get the warrant, with such a high bar for approval, means that things are getting real for the investigation into Trump campaign leaders dealings with Russia. Manafort was originally investigated for his alleged shady dealings with former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, who was at the head of a pro-Russian party which was driven out in 2014 by civil unrest and street protests. Manaforts firm was accused of lobbying for Yanukovychs interests while failing to register with the U.S. government as a lobbyist for a foreign power. In fact, that accusation is why Manafort left the Trump campaign back in August of 2016, after reports of the connections surfaced. But if the first warrant was based on his dealings with sketchy oligarchs, the second one is reportedly the more damning. CNNs sources said that the second warrant, the start date of which is unknown, was based on efforts to investigate possible ties between Trump campaign associates and Russian agents. So basically, for the first warrant there needed to be suspicion that Manafort was dealing with the Ukrainians (which, yeah, he was). For the second, investigators needed suspicion he was talking to Russian operatives — which is way more specific, and given Manaforts role in the Trump campaign, could be incredibly damning. On the other hand, the report also gives some near-credibility to Trumps old claim that former President Barack Obama was wiretapping him (and by "credibility," I mean you have to tilt your head and squint to "see" it). Back in March, Trump tweeted an accusation that Obama had wiretapped him at his residence at his eponymous Trump Tower shortly before the 2016 election, calling the former president "sick." Representatives of both Obama and the Department of Justice said that the claims were baseless. While Manafort keeps a residence at Trump Tower, there is still no evidence Trump himself was under surveillance. Which, however, doesnt mean he wasnt picked up by the surveillance on Manafort. CNN notes that Trump and Manafort continued to communicate for months after Manafort left the campaign, even after the FBI investigation into the former campaign manager became public knowledge. The conversations reportedly continued until lawyers for both men "insisted they stop." But this isnt even the worst news for Manafort that came out today. Special counsel Robert Mueller, who is leading the investigation into Russian interference in the election, reportedly told Manafort in July that the investigation planned to indict him, according to The New York Times. Agents reportedly showed up at Manaforts house with a search warrant, combing through his Virginia home and taking away binders of documents, computer files, and even photos of his wardrobe. A physical search warrant is unusual for someone whose lawyer has already been in touch with the Justice Department, as Manaforts has been — and is an indicator that prosecutors had probable cause to believe that the home contained evidence of a crime, and were concerned about destruction of evidence. As former federal prosecutor Jimmy Gurulé told the Times, clearly they didnt trust him. So, its not looking good for old Paul, here.
Police in Georgia say officers have responded to reports of shots fired at a high school and a teacher who may have been barricaded in a classroom is in custody. Police in Dalton tweeted that no children were hurt or were in danger. Police spokesman Bruce Frazier tells The Associated Press that the scene is secure. Police are not immediately saying what happened inside the school. Police say the school has been evacuated and students have been taken to the Northwest Georgia Center. Police are advising parents to go there to pick them up. Repeat: no children hurt, no children in danger. - Dalton Police (@DaltonPD) February 28, 2018 Dalton is about 90 miles (145 kilometers) north of Atlanta. The identity of the teacher has not been released. The high schools website says it has 2,0 students. here to subscribe to Khaleej Times news alerts on WhatsApp. Make sure you add our number +971545860953 under Contacts on your phone for uninterrupted service.
Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton failed to shake hands at the startof the second presidential debate on Sunday, October 9, bunking tradition and kicking off the evening with two cold shoulders. The presidential candidates took to the stage in St. Louis for their second face-off, with Anderson Cooperand Martha Raddatz at the helm. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, left, and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump arrive before the second presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis, Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016. ( After the two candidates were introduced, Clinton, 68, and Trump, 70, walked onstage from opposite sides of the floor and retained grim expressions and stiff body language as they greeted one another, pointedly choosing not to shake hands prior to their explosive 90-minute debate. Trumps wife Melania Trump and daughter Ivanka Trump were photographed shaking hands with Clintons husband, former president Bill Clinton. The political opponents’ icy demeanor comes just two days after the GOP presidential candidate was caught on newly released 2005 footage bragging about forcibly kissing and groping women to Access Hollywood host Billy Bush. You know, I’m automatically attracted to beautiful — I just start kissing them, Trump can be heard saying on the controversial audio clip. And when you’re a star they let you do it. Trump’s lewd remarks have had serious repercussions in the subsequent 48 hours, including a string of high-status Republican officials denouncing the real estate moguland the RNC withdrawing their financial support from the candidate. In response to the fall-out, Trump issued a video statement via Twitter on Saturday, October 8. Anyone who knows me knows these words don’t reflect who I am, he says on the video. Former President Bill Clinton checks hands with Melania Trump during the second presidential debate at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, on October 9, 2016. In recent weeks, Trump has come under fire for his numerous misogynistic comments about women in the past, including his most recent Twitter attack on former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, whom he once called Miss Piggy and Miss Housekeeping. Despite the GOP leadership’s distancing itself from Trump, however, the former Apprentice host vowed not to drop out of the race. The media and establishment want me out of the race so badly — I WILL NEVER DROP OUT OF THE RACE, WILL NEVER LET MY SUPPORTERS DOWN! # When Cooper, 49, directly asked Trump: "You bragged that you sexually assaulted women. the Republican presidential candidate once again insisted that his words were just "locker room talk" and tried to deflect attention to ISIS, who are "really bad." Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox! Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone?
Daily Show Joe Biden Donald Trump Comedy Central Honestly, at this point in the 2016 presidential election, nothing should surprise you anymore. That includes when a sitting vice president says at a rally that he’s ready for fisticuffs with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. But it’s just another nugget for the late-night shows to feed off of, and that’s what The Daily Show did Wednesday night. Host Trevor Noah broke down the situation: Vice President Joe Biden said on the campaign trail for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton that he doesn’t want to debate Trump, and instead he wishes they were in high school so Biden could take Trump behind the gym. Trump responded by saying at one of his rallies, Joe Biden wants to take me to the back of the barn… I’d love that. Noah, now confused about where the fight is actually going to take place, points out, This is why you don’t let old guys into Fight Club. The first rule of Fight Club is remember where Fight Club is. Watch the complete clip below: NOW WATCH: Briefing videos Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.
Any opinions expressed are those of the authors, and do not necessarily reflect the views of Iraq Business News. Iraqi special forces are facing fierce resistance as they battle the Islamic State group in southwest Mosul, a commander says.
Pamela Myer, the author of Liespotting: Proven Techniques to Detect Deception has made a career developing interview techniques and identifying verbal and non-verbal ques a person trying to lie to you might exhibit. Follow TI: On Facebook Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.
Trump Jr. allowed Tuesday night in an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News Channel that "he has probably met with other people from Russia" but insisted that he did not attempt to coordinate to impact the election or try to damage Hillary Clinton. He repeatedly suggested that the charges of collusion were "ridiculous" and "overplayed" and insisted that his father knew nothing about the June 2016 meeting. " It was such a nothing there was nothing to tell" his father, said Trump Jr. Donald Trump Jr. eagerly accepted help from what was described to him as a Russian government effort to aid his fathers campaign with damaging information about Hillary Clinton, according to the emails. The publicist describes the lawyer as a "Russian government attorney" who has dirt on Clinton as "part of Russia and its governments support for Mr. Trump." In one response, Trump Jr. says he would "love" to hear more. President Donald Trump says his eldest son is "a high-quality person," and he applauds "his transparency." In a tweet Tuesday night, the president promoted his sons appearance on Fox News and called him a "great person who loves our country." My son, Donald, will be interviewed by @seanhannity tonight at 10:00 P.M. He is a great person who loves our country!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 12, 2017 White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders read a brief statement from the president Tuesday in response to revelations that Trump Jr. agreed to hear damaging information on Hillary Clinton as part of the Russian governments effort to help his father. Heres my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter. As congressional committees and Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a former FBI director, investigate, the emails will almost certainly be reviewed for any signs of potential campaign collusion with the Kremlin, which the White House has repeatedly denied. Mueller spokesman Peter Carr declined to comment on the emails, citing the ongoing investigation. Here is page 4 (which did not post due to space constraints). 1Xi4nr2gq— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017 In the emails, Goldstone wrote to Trump Jr. that the information "would be very useful to your father." Veselnitskaya has denied that she ever worked for the Russian government and said on Tuesday that she doesnt represent the Russian government, only herself. She also said she "couldnt have had" information on Hillary Clinton. " The emails, dated early June, show Goldstone telling Trump that singer Emin Agalarov and his father, Moscow-based developer Aras Agalarov, had "helped along" the Russian governments support for Trump. The elder Agalarov was involved with Trump in hosting the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow. The two men also had preliminary discussions about building a Trump Tower in Moscow that fell through. Trump also appeared in a music video with the younger Agalarov. Goldstone at one point said he could send the information to Trumps father first directly "via Rhona," an apparent reference to the elder Trumps longtime assistant Rhona Graff. The presidents son posted the emails only after they were obtained by The New York Times. On Saturday, Trump Jr. described the encounter as being a "short introductory meeting" focused on the disbanded program that had allowed American adoptions of Russian children. Moscow ended the adoptions in response to Magnitsky Act sanctions created in response to alleged human rights violations in Russia. A day later, Trump Jr. changed his account, acknowledging that he was told beforehand that Veselnitskaya might have information "helpful" to the Trump campaign, and was told by her during the meeting that she had something about Clinton. He said that he first wanted to speak by phone, but that when that didnt work out, he was told that the attorney would be in New York "and I decided to take the meeting." " And, as we have said, she had no information to provide and wanted to talk about adoption policy and the Magnitsky Act." The Trump Organization has confirmed the authenticity of Trump Jr. posts on Twitter releasing the email chain. Associated Press writers Nekesa Mumbi Moody in New York and Julie Bykowicz in Washington contributed to this report. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Were in Pensacola promoting @IvankaTrumps comments on Roy Moore pic.twitter. 3evTw0mw— While President Donald Trump was inside the Pensacola Bay Center auditorium in Florida on Friday night, urging people to vote for Senate candidate Roy Moore, Ivanka Trump’s pointed comment on accusations against the Alabama Republican was plastered on a political ad outside. The giant ad covered the sides of a truck that was parked across the street from the auditorium and then was driven around the rally. The ad featured a giant photo of Ivanka’s face along with her cutting comment about Moore in an Associated Press interview last month. There’s a special place in hell for those who abuse children, she said. ( She also said in that interview that she had no reason to doubt the victims’ accounts.) She criticized Moore just days after The Washington Post reported he had had inappropriate relationships with teens when he was in his 30s. One woman said he removed her clothing and groped her when she was just 14. The ads were arranged for Trump’s Pensacola rally by American Bridge, a liberal group and PAC. Try as Trump and the Republican Party might, there’s no way to escape the truth about Roy Moore or Ivanka Trump’s own words, American Bridge spokeswoman Allison Teixeira Sulier said in a statement. It’s a disgusting new low that the President, the RNC, and the rest of the Republican Party are trying to help send a pedophile to the US Senate, and the American people won’t soon forget it. The New York Times reported last month that Trump was angry with his daughterfor speaking out against Moore. The president strongly supports the former judge despite multiple accusations of sexual misconduct.
FBI Director James Comey caused a major shakeup in the presidential election with his letter Friday revealing a review of newly-discovered emails related to the FBI previously-closed investigation into Hillary Clintons use of a private server. Here is a rundown of what we know (and what we dont) so far: What emails were discovered? Many things remain vague and unknown about the newly uncovered emails. What we do know is that the FBI believes they are "pertinent" to its investigation into Clintons use of a private server during her tenure as secretary of State. According to an official close to the investigation, there are thousands of new emails under review. What we dont know is whether they contain any classified material or could have any bearing on the previous investigation. Could the emails lead to criminal charges against Clinton? That is impossible to know at this point. In a speech Friday, Clinton said she is "confident" that the new developments wont change the FBIs recommendation not to prosecute her for improperly handling classified materials. Although Comey could not put a timetable on how long it will take to review the new material, a source tells USA TODAY that is unlikely it will be completed before Election Day. What is the connection to Anthony Weiner? The emails were discovered as part of an investigation into former New York congressman Anthony Weiner, who is suspected of having sexually charged communications with a 15-year-old girl. Investigators came across the emails while looking into devices used by Weiner. Weiner is married to — and currently separated from — longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin who had access to the same device or devices. In his letter to lawmakers, informing them of the latest developments, Comey said he thought it was important to update them "in light of my previous testimony," which said the investigation had been concluded. Did Attorney General Loretta Lynch approve of Comeys letter to lawmakers? Lynch objected to Comeys decision to notify Congress that the FBI was reviewing newly discovered email, an official familiar with the matter told USA TODAY. Lynch based her objection on a long-held Justice Department policy that federal authorities should not take any action that may interfere with an election. Lynch shared her objections just hours before Comey sent the letter, according to USA TODAYs source. The FBI director weighed the attorney generals advice during a spirited discussion of the matter Thursday and early Friday, but in the end, Comey felt compelled to act.
Arizona Sen. John McCain has been diagnosed with brain cancer. McCain was in the hospital to remove a blood clot from above his left eye when a tumor was located. Doctors revealed that McCain has been diagnosed with glioblastoma, an aggressive cancer. The statement says the 80-year-old senator and his family are reviewing further treatment, including a combination of chemotherapy and radiation. The doctors say McCain is recovering from his surgery amazingly well and his underlying health is excellent, according to the statement. McCain responded to the "outpouring of support" in seemingly good spirits Thursday, promising over Twitter that "unfortunately for my sparring partners in Congress, Ill be back soon, so stand by!" I greatly appreciate the outpouring of support - unfortunately for my sparring partners in Congress, Ill be back soon, so stand-by!— John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) July 20, 2017 The office of McCain sent a statement that read, "On Friday, July 14, Sen. John McCain underwent a procedure to remove a blood clot from above his left eye at Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix. Subsequent tissue pathology revealed that a primary brain tumor known as glioblastoma was associated with the blood clot. Scanning done since the procedure (a minimally invasive craniotomy with an eyebrow incision) shows that the tissue of concern was completely resected by imaging criteria. The senator and his family are reviewing further treatment options with his Mayo Clinic care team. Treatment options include a combination of chemotherapy and radiation. The Senator’s doctors say he is recovering from his surgery ‘amazingly well’ and his underlying health is excellent." The statement continued, "Senator McCain appreciates the outpouring of support he has received over the last few days. He is in good spirits as he continues to recover at home with his family in Arizona. He is grateful to the doctors and staff at Mayo Clinic for their outstanding care, and is confident that any future treatment will be effective. Further consultations with Senator McCain’s Mayo Clinic care team will indicate when he will return to the United States Senate." His daughter, Meghan McCain, tweeted out a message, "The news of my fathers illness has affected every one of us in the McCain family. My grandmother, mother, brothers, sister and I have all endured the shock of the news, and now we live with the anxiety about what comes next." John McCains wife Cindy posted a message on Instagram reading: "Thank all of you for the wonderful thoughts. We as a family will face the next hurdle together. One thing I do know is he is the toughest person I know. He is my hero and I love him with all my heart." McCain was the GOPs presidential nominee in 2008. A Navy pilot, he was shot down over Vietnam and held as a prisoner for 5 ½ years. The Associated Press has contributed to this report.
Michael Images LL Cool J (Independent) Although he attended the 2004 Republican National Convention, and supported the GOP’s former gubernatorial candidate for New York state in 2002, the Bay Shore, NY native told Piers Morgan earlier this year that he’s actually an Independent. The Rock (Republican) WWE superstar Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is a registered Republican, and was reportedly invited to speak at the 20 Republican National Convention. Shannen Doherty (Republican) "I realize that the majority of people in the entertainment business happen to be Democrats," Doherty has said about her conservative views. " And they should have no problem with the fact that Im a Republican." Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt (Republicans) The Hills pot-stirrers were big McCain-Palin supporters in 2008. " Im voting for John McCain," Montag told Us Weekly in 2008. " Im a Republican and McCain has a lot of experience." Still, the pair werent going to let their candidates defeat by Barack Obama bring them down. " Were behind America and Americas decision," Pratt told MTV News. " LeAnn Rimes (Independent) Performing at GOP fundraisers does not a Republican make, according to Rimes. When asked via Twitter last year why she agreed to participate in a Republican fundraiser in Washington, D.C., she replied, "Its a job! Im entertainment, not making a political stance," and added that she performed at the Democratic convention years ago and for Clinton "several times." Heather Locklear (Republican) The former Melrose Place scene-stealer is a registered member of the Republican party.
How many disasters must Puerto Rico suffer? After Hurricane Maria tore through the Puerto Rico, President Donald Trump was extremely slow to acknowledge that the U.S. territory was in dire need of aid. When Trump finally decided it was time to visit these Americans in need, his trip was a disaster in itself. Here are some of the shockingly insensitive, incompetent and tone-deaf things Trump said during his trip to Puerto Rico: 1. Endless Self-Promotion Despite criticism from Puerto Rican leaders and the fact that only 32 percent of Americans approve of how he’s handled the disaster, Trump has spent much of his time on the island insisting that everything has been going terrifically! I think it’s now acknowledged what a great job we’ve done, he said. In Texas and in Florida, we get an A+, and I’ll tell you what: I think we’ve done just as good in Puerto Rico. We only heard thank yous from the people of Puerto Rico, he told another reporter. Here’s an idea: rather than telling people what a great job he’s done, Trump should actually just do a great job, and then the people of Puerto Rico will do the complimenting for him. According to Trump in the same tweet, the leadership of Puerto Rico was ineffective and they couldn’t manage to get their own people to participate in the relief work. This comment is as dog whistle-y as racist dog whistles get, which is why it’s entirely fair that internet commenters started sharing this photo en masse to remind Trump who exactly likes to have everything to be done for him: 3. Trump Is In the Dark About What’s Happening While handing out flashlights to hurricane survivors, Trump couldn’t help but comment on the supposed pointlessness of the exercise. Why Trump felt the need to say that is unclear, especially since at that point 95 percent of Puerto Rico was still without electricity. Maybe Trump was being taken to places with power, but the vast majority of Puerto Ricans could really use those flashlights to, you know, see at night. Playfully Tossing Supplies At least he wasn’t physically throwing the flashlights at the people of Puerto Rico. During another moment, Trump began tossing paper towel rolls one at a time to the crowd. It’s not only an inefficient manner of distributing supplies to people in need of resources, it’s a pretty degrading one. As much as Trump may fancy himself some sort of rock star, these aren’t fans attending a concert looking for free merchandise. Technically, Trump didn’t say anything in this instance, but the disrespect spoke volumes in his actions alone. Making Puerto Rico Feel Like an Imposition The nerve of Puerto Rico to have a hurricane – don’t they know how expensive recovery efforts are? Trump made sure they were well aware at a press briefing on the island. I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico, but you threw our budget a little out of whack, he said. The president didn’t make residents of Texas or Florida feel like they were a waste of money, so it seems extra suspect for the president to say something like this after already treating Puerto Ricans as lesser American citizens. Minimizing the Scale of the Disaster In the face of his initial inaction, Trump has repeatedly tried to downplay the scale of Hurricane Maria. While speaking to Puerto Rican officials he said, If you look at a real catastrophe like Katrina and you look at the tremendous hundreds and hundreds of people that died… Trump said. Sorry, there’s no need to finish that sentence, did Trump just really suggest a place experiencing massive devastation was not a real catastrophe? It’s true that the death count in Puerto Rico is significantly lower than that of Hurricane Katrina, but if that’s enough to make Trump proud (his own words) of how he’s handled this crisis, he’s completely off base. Wiping Out Debt – But Not Really In an interview on Tuesday, Trump told Fox News that to help Puerto Rico, he was going to wipe out their existing debt. Honestly, it was one of the most productive ideas to come out of the Trump administration throughout the disaster… too bad it seems that Trump was babbling without having consulted with his staff who are not on board with this idea. Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney backtracked on the president’s comments saying, I wouldn’t take it word for word with that, insisting that the White House would instead focus on providing disaster relief.
Nigerian police force used to illustrate the story Nigerian Police personnel of the Kaduna State Police Command are presently carrying out a peaceful protest against the non-payment of their August and September salaries. Eight Police commands namely: Kaduna, Kebbi Gombe, Nasarawa, Ekiti ,Bayelsa, Imo and Ogun are reportedly owing August and September salaries, PREMIUM TIMES learnt. The protest, which cuts across the rank and file of the command, has over 20 protesters who are gathered in front of the Salaries Office inside the command headquarters. Cyril Abeh, the state commissioner of police, who said the delay in payment was from the finance ministry’s IPPS office and not the fault of the police, appealed for restraint. They are police officers operating under the law, if they misbehave, we will deal with them according to the law. I am in the field attending to a very important security matter, but will be on my way back to headquarters to address them now, he said. Some of the protesting officers accused the minister of finance, Kemi Adeosun of refusing to allow President Muhammadu Buhari to know the exact situation regarding the non payment of the police salaries. She already lied to Mr President that all is well. How can you fight corruption and you don’t pay police their two months salaries, an officer said.
President Donald Trump on Sunday strongly condemned what he described in tweets as a "mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria" that allegedly left women and children dead. He laid the blame squarely at the feet of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Russia and Iran for backing resident Bashar al-Assad, who he called an "animal." Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. Sundays posts left many wondering if Trump would potentially retaliate against the Syrian government, which is backed by Russia. The criticism of Putin is arguably his strongest critique of Russia since he took office 442 days ago. The Syrian American Medical Society said that more than 500 cases, mostly women and children, suffered symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent and 42 were reported dead. Both Syria and Russia deny involvement in Sunday’s alleged chemical attack. Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert said on ABC’s This Week on Sunday that the White House is considering how to respond. He added that the national security team had been speaking to the president all throughout the evening and the morning. I wouldn’t take anything off the table, he said. The State Department, meanwhile, provided a full-throated critique of Russia in a statement on Saturday night that claimed that the nation had breached its commitments to the United Nations and called into question [Russia’s] commitment to resolve the overall crisis and to larger non-proliferation priorities. Politicians call for action after Syrias alleged chemical attack Republican and Democrat leaders decried the alleged chemical attack on Sunday, calling for the U.S. to hold the Assad government accountable. Others from the presidents own party piled on. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said on CNNs "State of the Union" that Trump should rethink his plans for an early withdrawal from Syria and consider another targeted attack on Syrias military facilities, such as the one he ordered a year ago. " That may be an option that we should consider now," she said. " The question now is whether he will do anything about it," he said. " The President responded decisively when Assad used chemical weapons last year. He should do so again, and demonstrate that Assad will pay a price for his war crimes." said that the United States should continue to lead in holding Assad and Russia accountable. This needs to be responded to in a very firm and strong way. I think we need to deal also with Russia and Iran’s involvement in this. Democrats also called for the White House to act and coordinate an international response. We need to make sure that there is a proceeding started by the international community to hold him accountable," said Cardin, who serves on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. " This is not the first use of chemical weapons." House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said that Putin needed to be held accountable for the alleged attack as he had enabled "these war crimes." But how to do that rests with the White House, she added. Members of Congress expect a comprehensive intelligence briefing on this attack as soon as possible," she said in a statement. " Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., said it could affect Mike Pompeo, who Trump nominated to replace Rex Tillerson as secretary of state, as he enters Senate confirmation hearings this week.
This is now bigger than who becomes the next president.
GOP congressional candidate Paul Nehlen has drawn on anti-Semitic sympathy to rally support for his fledgling campaign, BuzzFeed News reported Friday. Nehlen — who is running against House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) in a Republican primary this summer — ran a Twitter group chat where he rallied white nationalists to attack his opponents, BuzzFeed News reported. One of Nehlens stated adversaries was the "Jewish media," who he believed had "coordinated" to smear him after he lost the support of Breitbart News for sending tweets about white pride. Nehlens list of targets included conservative personality John Cardillo, author Kurt Schlichter, and former Boston Red Sox pitcher turned Breitbart radio host Curt Schilling. All three men, BuzzFeed News notes, are conservatives who distanced themselves from Nehlen. The candidate turned to his Twitter group to ask for some backup, writing, "Cardillo and others like him are working for Jewish media. Then, there are the fake conservatives who happen to be Jewish." Per screenshots published by BuzzFeed News, Nehlen then added: "Im going to decimate them all. Sources who spoke to BuzzFeed News said that "such requests were common" from Nehlen. One of the group chats most notable participants is Richard Spencer ally Eli Mosley, who heads a white nationalist group of his own called Identify Evropa, BuzzFeed News points out. Mosley is a polarizing figure even among white nationalists, as many reportedly think he sparked the violence at last years "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, where a woman was killed by a white nationalist. Read more about Nehlens group chat at BuzzFeed News.
This past weekend, Americans watched in shock as alt-right members, neo-Nazis and white nationalists descended upon Charlottesville, Virginia, attempting to spread their message of hate and intolerance. Clashes between white nationalists and counter-protesters were numerous. One counter-protester, Heather Heyer, was killed when a man rammed his car into several counter-protesters. The man, 20-year-old James Alex Fields Jr., was later charged with second-degree murder. Earlier that day, he was photographed displaying the symbols of a white nationalist group called Vanguard America, which later denied he was a member. That weekend journalist Shaun King posted a video of several men beating a 20-year-old man named Deandre Harris. King, who was attempting to confirm the identities of the men behind the beating, found that one of the men, Alex Michael Ramos, identifies as Latino. A group called the Atlanta Antifascists then tweeted that Ramos was affiliated with the Atlanta chapter of the far-right organization Proud Boys and the far-right militia called the Georgia Security Force. In a Facebook live video that has since been deleted, Ramos claimed he wasn’t racist because he was Puerto Rican. When a viewer asked why he marched with racists, Ramos said, I stood by racist people but they weren’t racist to me. Ramos’ assertion that his Puerto Rican roots meant he couldn’t be racist is a prime example of Latinos who are completely ignorant of their ability to perpetuate white supremacy. Latinos, both here and in Latin America, do and say plenty of things that promote anti-blackness — and most of the time we don’t even blink an eye when it happens. When it comes to discussing racism, we often subscribe to the black vs. white binary that we often see in the United States. If our views aren’t extreme, if we’re not a full-blown racist, then we’re completely absolved of perpetuating anti-blackness, right? When we think like that, we tend to ignore the colorism — often subtle — that permeates through much of Latin America. It’s a difficult thing to confront, but if we don’t address it within our own community, we can’t expect it to magically resolve itself. Pulitzer prize-winning Dominican-American author Junot Diaz once said, White supremacy’s greatest trick is that it has convinced people that it exists always in other people, never in us. Earlier this year, Carlos Hakas, the man who angrily knocked over an elotero’s cart in Los Angeles, exclaimed, I’m not racist, I’m from Argentina! In 2015, Univision entertainment reporter Rodner Figueroa compared Michelle Obama to a cast member of Planet of The Apes. When he was fired over the comments, Figueroa wrote an open letter to Michelle Obama saying he isn’t racist because he comes from a bi-racial family. What about last year, when Black Lives Matter was marching in the streets and you heard someone (maybe it was you) say, Latinos need to fight for our causes, like immigration reform, completely ignoring the fact that there are black Latinos? It doesn’t just happen in the U.S. The idea that anti-blackness is only a thing perpetuated by white Americans is what leads a Mexican sports newspaper to make jokes like this one, literally days after a person died in Charlottesville: Meanwhile, in Mexican print media… ? 0QWfJc — Laura Martínez® (@miblogestublog) August 17, 2017 Yes, Real Madrid are nicknamed Los Blancos, but the joke is clearly rooted in the idea that white supremacy is a problem over there in the U.S. and not in Mexico, where they released a stamp celebrating a cartoon character that is a racist stereotype. Last year, Trilce Ortiz listed eight (out of many) ways that Latinos perpetuate anti-blackness. 404 File not found this page does not exist. please check your URL or return to homepage Right now would be a good time for us to revisit that and not just stop there, but continue to educate ourselves on how we can make sure we’re not promoting white supremacy. Recommend this story to a friend by clicking on the share button below.
A lady identified as Monisola (@Monaayy), has taken to the social networking platform to talk down on women who are in the habit of broke-shaming men. There is a mentality in this part of the world which has led to a lot of unrealistic expectations from women who believe it is their entitlement to be taken care of and to be with a wealthy men and as a result of this, they tend to look down on struggling men. The lady who appears to be fed up with this mentality, took to the online platform to share her opinion concerning the issue. To expect a man to be financially buoyant simply because he’s a man is just as offensive as expecting a woman to cook and clean simply because she’s a woman. If we’re kicking against patriarchal norms then we can’t *expect* men to be rich because they’re men, especially if you as a woman don’t even have your own money! If you don’t want the validity of your womanhood to be evaluated based on your domestic prowess, then stop devaluing men for being broke. If you don’t want to date a man without money, fine, you have every right to make that choice. But don’t shame him for his financial status. I even see women shaming men for being in the exact same financial position as them and honestly I’m embarrassed. The post which went viral on social media, received several reactions from people who seemed to be in agreement with her post. Read the thread in full below; Stay updated with the latest Nigerian news from Information Nigeria Trending Today
A woman is facing charges as part an investigation by the Manatee County Sheriff’s Office to crack down on illegal slot machines. Phalla Colman, 54, was arrested Thursday and charged with operating an illegal gambling establishment, operating an illegal lottery and possession of slot machines, according to a news release. Detectives began investigating Colman’s business at 3325 15 St. E., Bradenton, several weeks ago after she was suspected of running an illegal internet café or gambling establishment. Detectives were able to develop the case and obtain warrants for Colman’s arrest and the search the establishment, the release said. On Thursday, they searched her business and arrested her. Detectives seized 1 computer monitors, 79 computer towers and $3,415 in currency. Breaking News Be the first to know when big news breaks Recaptcha requires verification. protected by reCAPTCHA Privacy - Terms Privacy - Terms Jessica De Leon: 941-745-7049, @JDeLeon1012
CHANDLER, AZ - The Chandler Unified School District says an off-duty Phoenix officer left a gun at Hamilton High School on Friday. The gun was reportedly found by a student in a restroom at the Hamilton library. The school district says the Phoenix officer was on campus at the time and left the gun in the restroom in a holster. That officer is being questioned and has not been arrested at this time, according to the district. Weve reached out to Chandler police for more information and are awaiting a response. A statement was sent Friday afternoon to parents by the school’s principal: Dear parents and guardians, I am writing to you to let you know that a student found a loaded handgun in a holster on a handicap rail in the stall of a restroom in the Hamilton Public Library this afternoon (the library on the Hamilton campus). The student reported the gun to city library staff immediately, it was retrieved and secured by the Chandler Police School Resource Officer and students are safe. The adult community member who was visiting the Chandler Public Library and left his gun in the bathroom stall, returned for his gun and has been identified by the Chandler Police Department. Police investigated and determined that no crime had been committed. Sincerely, Chris Farabee Acting Principal, Hamilton High
People pass French flags lowered at half-mast in Nice on July 16, 2016, following the deadly Bastille Day attack. ( VALERY /Getty Images) The Islamic State has released an official statement via its Amaq News agency regarding the July 14, Bastille Day terrorist attack in Nice, France, carried out by Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel. Police have identified Bouhlel as responsible for murdering up to 84 people by ramming into them with a truck and shooting at them at a Bastille Day celebration. The 31-year-old French-Tunisian attacker told police he was delivering ice cream in order to get on the promenade, which was closed to traffic for the celebration, The Daily Mail reports. ISIS released a statement about the attack this morning citing an insider source. Read it below: The attack followed the orders of a previous video purportedly released by the Islamic State, in which it told its jihadists in France who could not make it to Iraq or Syria to use cars or trucks as weapons. Join over 240,0 people who get the most important news stories and the best shopping deals from Heavy – Delivered right to your inbox.
When you’re caught in a lie, it can be difficult to know what to do. As much as it may be morally correct to admit your wrongdoing, that’s too embarrassing and shameful for some individuals to handle. Unfortunately, that’s why many people find themselves only getting deeper and deeper into their lies. In order to cover up for themselves, they just keep making up more and more details until their story spirals out of control. One group of people that tend to know how to deal with liars easily are legal professionals. So when this cop tried to make up a law right to an attorney, you can imagine that things quickly got out of hand! Like many people looking to make a few extra dollars these days, Wilmington, North Carolina resident Jesse Bright had been using some of his spare time to serve as a driver for the ride-sharing app Uber. However, he also had a day job—one that would come in handy later. One day, Jesse was unexpectedly pulled over by a police officer, who detained his passenger, confiscating his items. Soon enough, Jesse was surrounded by officers. He thought that the whole situation seemed suspicious, to the point that he was afraid that one of the cops may have slipped something onto his passenger seat.
Almost a half-century ago, in 1968, the United States seemed to be falling apart. It appears as if 2017 might be another 1968. Recent traumatic hurricanes seem to reflect the countrys human turmoil. After the polarizing Obama presidency and the contested election of Donald Trump, the country is once again split in two. But this time the divide is far deeper, both ideologically and geographically -- and more 50/50, with the two liberal coasts pitted against red-state America in between. Century-old mute stone statues are torn down in the dead of night, apparently on the theory that by attacking the Confederate dead, the lives of the living might improve. All the old standbys of American life seem to be eroding. The National Football League is imploding as it devolves into a political circus. The new allegiance of the media, late-night television, stand-up comedy, Hollywood, professional sports and universities is committed to liberal sermonizing. Politically correct obscenity and vulgarity among celebrities and entertainers is a substitute for talent, even as Hollywood is wracked by sexual harassment scandals and other perversities. The smears "racist," "fascist," "white privilege" and "Nazi" -- like "commie" of the 1950s -- are so overused as to become meaningless. There is now less free speech on campus than during the McCarthy era of the early 1950s. As was the case in 1968, the world abroad is also falling apart. The European Union, model of the future, is unraveling. The EU has been paralyzed by the exit of Great Britain, the divide between Spain and Catalonia, the bankruptcy of Mediterranean nation members, insidious terrorist attacks in major European cities and the onslaught of millions of immigrants -- mostly young, male and Muslim -- from the war-torn Middle East. Germany is once again becoming imperious, but this time insidiously by means other than arms. Iran is likely to follow the North Korea nuclear trajectory. Is the chaos of 2017 a catharsis -- a necessary and long overdue purge of dangerous and neglected pathologies? Is the problem too much democracy, as the volatile and fickle mob runs roughshod over establishment experts and experienced bureaucrats? Neither traditional political party has any answers. Democrats are being overwhelmed by the identity politics and socialism of progressives. Yet for all the social instability and media hysteria, life in the United States quietly seems to be getting better. The stock market and middle-class incomes are up. Business and consumer confidence are high. The border with Mexico is being enforced. In the past, any crisis that did not destroy the United States ended up making it stronger. Victor Davis Hanson is a classicist and historian at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University. His latest book is The Savior Generals from BloomsburyBooks. You can reach him by e-mailing author@victorhanson.com. Stunning Video Will Make Any Atheists Jaw Drop
A photograph shows a black police officer protecting participants in a white supremacist protest in Charlottesville. On 12 August 2017, just after the occurrence of violent and tragic events at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, left multiple people dead, an image was widely circulated via social media seemingly showing a black police officer calmly standing guard to protect a group of racist protesters carrying Confederate flags, wearing Ku Klux Klan garb, and issuing Nazi salutes: Although this photograph was genuine, it was not — as was widely assumed (or stated) in social media posts — a picture snapped at the 12 August 2017 white nationalist rally in Charlottesville. The image had been posted online well over a month earlier, as shown in this 9 July 2017 tweet from Tucson, Arizona, police chief Chris Magnus: Photo says it all. Police around nation called upon to protect 1st Amend rights no matter how heinous they may find the speech. pic.twitter.com/3keTS7bdX2 It was also posted on Facebook at that time by Kimberly Payne Hawk, who described the pictured policeman as Charlottesville Police Officer Nash: A few days later, Frank Somerville of Oakland television station KTVU wrote of the latter posting that: Kimberly’s post went viral. But there were also a number of really nasty comments. And Kimberly later posted this in response: On Monday I saw a photo from the K rally that moved me and I posted it. Now it has gone viral and mean, angry people are coming out of the woodwork. I do not care about the rude comments towards me but I am becoming quite irritated at the attacks on our local police officer. He is getting attacked for being an African American police officer who was protecting the free speech rights of the klan and I am getting accused of being a supporter of racism because my sister is a police officer. It must be a horrible way to live to be so defensive and angry all the time. I hope these people can find some happiness and peace at some point in their lives. I’m dumbfounded that anyone could criticize this officer and what he’s doing. And thank you Kimberly Payne Hawk for posting this. The image originated with a Ku Klux Klan rally held in downtown Charlottesville on 8 July 2017: The photograph was snapped by during that protest by Jill Mumie, one of several shots she captured on her iPhone: That afternoon, she positioned herself near an area that had been cordoned off in anticipation of what might unfold. She purposefully stayed in front of the officer, waiting for what she felt was the right moment that captured the bizarre scene that was unfolding. Once the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan arrived, she recalled a huge surge of people behind me. And so with her iPhone, Mumie tried a few different shots. In one outtake, a girl stands beside the officer, snapping a picture of the commotion as the officer stares elsewhere. The angle of his chin, the tilt of his head, something felt off. In another outtake, the attention is focused on a man behind the officer who displays a middle finger in Mumie’s direction. The officer pictured in the image was a Charlottesville High School school resource officer named Darius Nash, who said, I don’t feel like I’m a hero for it. I swore to protect my city and that’s what I was there to do. I don’t think it makes me a hero, just doing what I believe in. Snopes.com has long been engaged in the battle against misinformation, an effort we could not sustain without the support of our readers. If youd like to learn more about how you can support us, click here.
Tionne ‘T-Boz’ Watkins recently revealed that a family member was killed at the hands of an itchy trigger-fingered cop. Watkins hit the the net with her heartbreaking story about her cousin, 25-year-old Eddie Russell, Jr., who was shot multiple times and killed by police in Peoria, Illinois. The department is investigating the fatal shooting death, however T-Boz and her family are disputing the officer’s account of what happened. T-Boz posted the tweets above with the following caption: My Cousin Was Shot 18 Times Including the Face and Back of His Head! He Had Mental Health Issues AND THE COPS KNEW THAT! Anything he’s ever Done Was minor and NON VIOLENT! Eddie Russell Jr -A Human-Being -A Son- Brother-Friend-Nephew – Cousin-HUMAN! The cops told his mother to call him out on a bullhorn USED her saying WE WILL GIVE HIM THE HELP HE NEEDS and He Came Out Because He Heard His Mother and They used beyond excessive force to gun him down also with heavy artillery used in warfare! IF THEIR GOING ON WHAT HES HOLDING AT THE BANK THAT ISN’T A GUN! ( Picture Is Posted)They Keep saying he had a gun! I don’t see a gun in his hand at the bank they say he tried to rob! They blocked everyone off including neighbors at a 4 block radius including his mother and father and family!People could NOT go home! So no camera phones accessible is that why? COPS DIDN’T HAVE ON BODY CAMS now isn’t that convenient! They Lied and told family members Eddie Jr was at the hospital to get them away from the house knowing he was dead outside the house where they killed him! They kept his BODY OUTSIDE ON THE GROUND FOR MANY MANY HOURS! First they reported he ran out shooting =LIES! They didn’t even wait for the negotiator to arrive or is it that the negotiator took his time getting there? They haven’t Even Gave my cousin the RESPECT of trying to call and explain WHAT HAPPENED IN DETAIL TO HER CHILD! His Mother and Father and Family need JUSTICE! This was a mentally iLL young man who needed help and should have received just that! PLEASE HELP HIS MOTHER AND SPREAD HER STORY SO SHE CAN GET THE HELP SHE NEEDS AND JUSTICE FOR HER SON! His Mother Has Tried For Many Years To Get Her Son Mental Health Counseling He Needed! AmericaIsTainted #TrumpIsAChump #TakeAKnee #BendAKnee #JusticeForEddieJr #Shot18Times #tboz #tlc #tbeezy #tlcarmy #justice #peoriaillinois #EddieRussell Eddie Russell, Jr., who suffers from mental illness, was named as a suspect in an armed robbery. Officers claim he robbed the First Mid-Illinois Bank and Trust before returning home where an hours-long police stand-off ensued. Officers reportedly fired their weapons after Russell, Jr. emerged from his home. According to police accounts, Russell, Jr. exited the home in an aggressive manner and the officers stated they believed he was holding the same handgun used in the robbery. Eddie Russell, Jr. was pronounced dead at the scene on Wednesday, September 20. Hopefully they will find the answers they seek in this horrible tragedy.
Turns Out The Uxbridge Fresh Prince Of Bad Hair Is 19, Still In High School, And Put Uxbridge High On Lockdown After A Gun Incident On Snapchat Want to advertise with Turtleboy? Email us at Turtleboysports@gmail.com for more information. Earlier today we blogged about the Uxbridge Fresh Prince of Bad Hair, who thought it would be wise to shoot a cop car with a BB gun, and then shoot an autistic man the next day. We couldn’t find his Facebook page, but within an hour we had a million people pointing us to his Uxbridge street name – Tre Patterson: As you can see, we’re dealing with a real winner here. Turns out this 19 year old is STILL IN HIGH SCHOOL! That’s why the two others he was with aren’t having their names released – because they’re his minor friends from high school. He tells kids in his peer group what things were like back in my day. This year Tre, who recently moved here from down south, and claims to have enrolled at Uxbridge High School because the coach at UConn told him it would help him get recruited, was suspended multiple times. One of the incidents happened when he got the school put on lock down because he had beef with kids from another school on snapchat, and he claimed he had a gun on snapchat, DURING SCHOOL HOURS, and the other kids were coming to UHS with more guns. After being uncooperative with the principals AND the cops about it, he was escorted off the premises and suspended. Because I’m sure when he came back he had a newfound thirst for knowledge and a desire to follow school rules. He also was on the basketball and football teams, but hardly ever played because his grades weren’t good enough. It’s hard passing college prep math when you’re only 19 years old. Here he is all dolled up for the first of many junior proms to come for Tre-Tre: Of course he’s the cool kid because he can legally buy booze in Canada and no one else can: Don’t worry though, the fam is holding it down on Facebook and has gone full free my boi! Apparently his response to the cops after he shot the autistic man was that he didn’t know he had autism. Because it’s OK to shoot people with BB guns in public as long as they’re not autistic. Oh, and autistic people all have tattoos on their forehead that let them know they’re autistic. That’s literally the though process of this nudnik. Anyway, this is yet another example of the failed educational policies from our state and federal government. This is what happens when administrators value their graduation rates more than the well-being of the entire school – they keep shitheads like this in school instead of expelling them. Because it looks better on a chart if they have less dropouts. Oh, and don’t forget that schools all have mandates from the federal government, due to Arne Duncan’s reign of terror, to reduce suspension rates, particularly for students of color. So now schools like Uxbridge are forced to keep morons like this, who obviously have no intention of learning, enrolled in schools. They make it impossible for teachers to do their job and they poison the rest of the student body with their bullshit. Uxbridge High School lost an entire day of learning because of him. If somehow he graduates this year he’ll be 20 when he does so. And it will only be the result of social promotion, fueled by a desire for better charts. We urge you to support the following local businesses.
Last Sunday, a frightfully organized lone gunman opened fire on a crowd of 22,0 people at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas. In his room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel, he had 23 guns, some of which were outfitted with bump stocks (devices which allow semi-automatic weapons the capability to mimic the gunfire of automatic weapons). He killed 58 people and injured 527 before being discovered, killing himself before police could apprehend him. In the wake of the worst mass shooting in modern United States history, the NRA CEOs response to the Las Vegas shooting was defiant, belligerent, and utterly tone deaf. Romper has reached out to the NRA and is awaiting a reply. NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre, normally a man who keeps a low profile, offered a rare interview with Fox News on Thursday. While he did call the Las Vegas shooting an "unimaginable tragedy" during his interview, LaPierre insisted that stricter gun laws would not change mass shootings: If legislation worked, Boston massacre wouldn’t have worked, San Bernardino where California has every gun law on the books, that wouldn’t have happened. LaPierre went on to quickly accuse the "other side" of the tragedy; notably Democrats and celebrities who have been vehemently calling for gun control legislation. The NRA CEO lashed out and accused them of trying to politicize a tragedy, and attempting to piggyback their whole agenda to ban guns, restrict law abiding people for the last 20 years, this circus, on the back of this tragedy. The CEO became especially agitated when discussing what he believes to be the double standard coming out of Hollywood: We spend millions of dollars every year, teaching people safety and responsibility, and this Hollywood crowd makes billions teaching gun irresponsibility to the American public. Of course, LaPierre doesnt have actual facts to back up those claims, and its important to remember that he is talking about fictional depictions in action movies. When LaPierre accused those unnamed "Hollywood elites" of "protecting themselves with guns," while supposedly wanting to get rid of guns, he has clearly forgotten that few people who have weighed in on stricter gun control have not called for an outright ban of firearms, according to Salon. His interview with Fox News Sean Hannity was terribly off the mark, focused on Hollywood, rather than the "unimaginable tragedy" he referenced at first and then appeared to quickly forget. Movies in Hollywood do depict deaths, but not actual deaths caused by real guns. Here are a few real-life statistics about gun use in America: According to Vox, the United States fares poorly when compared to gun violence in countries of similar socio-economic success. There are six times as many homicides by firearms in the United Statescompared to neighboring Canada, and 16 times as many as Germany. Americans own nearly half of the civilian-owned firearmsin the world, according to CNN, 310 million of the 650 million civilian-owned firearms worldwide. Americans own more guns per capita than any other country on the planet, according to a PEW Center study. There are more public mass shootings in the United States than any other country in the world, according to the same study by the PEW Center. However badly LaPierre would like to shift the focus from the Las Vegas shooting victims to his personal vendetta against Hollywood action films, it cant happen. The reality is, the families of those victims need a real, informed, empathetic response to the mass shooting. Because they are real people who lost real loved ones at the hands of a man with real guns.
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** If you recall, then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton was one that was always talking about money in politics while hypocritically soliciting donations from some of the world’s most corrupt people and organizations. Now, it’s come to light that Clinton apparently funneled over $800,0 from her campaign money to her new political PAC, Onward Together, which is backing several groups of resistance against the current administration, including ANTIFA. The Daily Caller reports: As a presidential candidate, Clinton railed against dark money groups like Onward Together. Clinton transferred$800,0 from her failed 2016 presidential campaign to Onward Together shortly before announcing the group’s launch in May, documents the campaign filed with the FEC reveal. Clinton doesn’t even deny that she is supporting such groups. In an email signed by her that went out last week asking for money, Clinton wrote, You may not have heard much about the work we’re doing at Onward Together, Clinton wrote. That’s because we’re working behind the scene to fund, support, and amplify the work of the groups we’re supporting. Revolutionary Hearing Aid Is Now Giving Free Fit &amp; Feel Samples Each of five political groups that were mentioned were contacted by The Daily Caller and asked if they were being funded and supported by Onward Together. Out of those five, only one group, the Soros-backed Indivisible, responded. Onward Together has not given any financial support to us, Helen Kalla, an Indivisible spokesperson, wrote in an email. Kalla added that Clinton’s group has been amplifying and highlighting our work through their digital networks, which she explained has consisted of retweeting [Indivisible], and they’ve highlighted our work via their emails to their list too. Onward Together is not required to reveal donors’ identity as a 501(c)4 social welfare organization. The group also will not be revealing those identities, something that is only occurring to protect the guilty. Meanwhile, because the Trump administration did not keep its promise to investigate and seek prosecution of Mrs. Clinton, she is freely promoting her blame book, What Happened, and now she is funding the little Communists known as ANTIFA, which are working against the administration and against the very heart and soul of American culture and history. But we can’t do anything about the Clintons because they are really good people, right Mr. President? Courtesy of Freedom Outpost Tim Brown is an author and Editor at FreedomOutpost.com, SonsOfLibertyMedia.com, GunsInTheNews.com and TheWashingtonStandard.com. He is husband to his more precious than rubies wife, father of 10 mighty arrows, jack of all trades, Christian and lover of liberty. He resides in the U.S. occupied Great State of South Carolina. Tim is also an affiliate for the Joshua Mark 5 hybrid semi-automatic rifle.
First U.S. Labor Day Parade, September 5, 1882 in New York (Image by wikimedia) Permission Details DMCA The Labor Day parades are over. The muscular speeches celebrating workers are finished. The trash is getting collected from parks across the country. And now conservative politicians from Trump on down will revive their systematic efforts to weaken unions and undermine workers. Trump -- despite all the populist bunting that decorates his speeches -- sustains the deeply entrenched Republican antipathy to organized workers. It would eliminate the program that funds education of workers on how to avoid workplace hazards. It even savages money for mine safety enforcement for the miners Trump claims to love. Trump is systematically reversing any Obama rule that aided workers. His Labor Secretary has announced his intention to strip millions of workers of the overtime pay they would have received under Obama DOL regulations. The GOPs Anti-Union Strategy This is simply standard operating procedure for todays Republican party. And aided by our perverse globalization strategies, theyve been remarkably successful. Unions are down to about 7 percent of the private workforce. They are a classic "mediating institution," a voluntary civic organization between government and the individual. They also educate their members, teach democracy, and are central to community volunteer and service efforts. They teach and practice democratic citizenship. The modern Republican Party, of course, is the party of big business and big money. And weakening unions is a constant target. While Republicans understand how important unions are to Democrats and to workers, Democrats dont seem to get it. But as the money in politics has gotten bigger and the unions have gotten weaker, the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party has become more powerful. When Republicans get control, they attack unions relentlessly. When Democrats gain control, as they did in 2012 with the election of Barack Obama and Democratic majorities in both houses, labor law reform, empowering workers to organize is not a priority. Unions Under Siege Now unions are under siege. Its time for Democrats at every level to realize: strengthening workers and their unions isnt an elective; its a requirement and a first priority. The loop works like this: Unions are in decline. As a result, unions lose influence inside the Democratic Party. The Democrats then feel no pressure to stem unions decline, and the economically disadvantaged lose what was once their most powerful advocate. We cannot revive unions, and we have no template for egalitarian politics without them. The Democrats, more than they realize, still need labor. But most of all, all those who want to build a fairer society need their partnership. As the parties have polarized, Republicans have taken the gloves off, risking the votes of the 40 percent of union members who back Republicans in order to crush a pillar of the Democratic coalition.
When the Graham-Cassidy bill failed to reach the Senate floor last week, the media wanted to put a stake in the heart of the administration’s agenda, declaring all Obamacare repeal efforts to be dead. For the millions of Americans struggling under the Affordable Care Act regime, however, the fight to make lemonade out of lemons must continue this fall. Luckily, conservatives in Congress who want to see the end of Obamacare and understand the perils of inaction are not giving up. Earlier this week, America Rising Squared, a conservative policy organization which I lead, issued a path forward. We outline five popular conservative actions Congress and the president can take by the end of the year to protect taxpayers and those disproportionately harmed by the ACA while the larger repeal effort remains delayed until next year. The first step is to protect them from new Obamacare taxes coming in January. Americans should be encouraged to know that conservatives in the Senate have introduced legislation to stop the health insurance tax and the medical device tax. and 10 fellow conservative senators, including Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), introduced legislation last week to stop the insurance tax. In the House, a bipartisan effort is underway to do the same, led by Republican Rep. Kristi Noem of South Dakota and Democratic Rep. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona. These members of Congress understand that Obamacare taxes will harm Americans of all walks of life, and will disproportionately harm seniors and small businesses. In all, if Congress fails to act, the health insurance tax would amount to a new annual $14.3 billion tax increase. Republicans don’t want to see a tax hike go into effect on their watch, and Democrats don’t want to put more of a burden on vulnerable Americans, so action is required now. Second, there should be no bailouts for Obamacare. While bipartisanship is a key to success in getting legislation passed, the president and conservatives in Congress ought to fight back against all efforts to bail out this law. When House Republicans sued President Obama in 2014 over the health-care acts cost-sharing subsidies, a federal judge sided with the plaintiffs, deeming these bailouts unconstitutional. The Obama administration appealed, so today President Trump can easily drop that appeal and end unconstitutional Obamacare cronyism. Liberals in the Senate want new bailouts, but conservatives such as Cruz have warned colleagues that they must oppose any such efforts. The third step needed to cripple the health care law and protect Americans is for President Trump to direct the IRS to weaken the individual mandate and expand the hardship exemptions. The individual mandate has forced many Americans to purchase coverage they do not want and cannot afford, and even candidate Obama admitted in 2008 that under Massachusetts plan, there are people who are paying ﬁnes and still can’t afford [health insurance], so now they’re worse off than they were. He was right, and President Trump can give these Americans relief from fines easily by directing the IRS to ease the mandate. The two final steps the president and Republicans in Congress can take before the end of the year is to fully implement 90 percent cuts to Obamacare marketing, which would save the federal government some $90 million, and fully protect American seniors from new taxes on Medicare plans. Among the taxes going into effect next year, those enrolled in Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D will see taxes increased nearly $3,0 each over the next decade if Congress fails to act. Time is running out, and President Trump and Republicans in Congress must act now to stop new Obamacare taxes, end the cronyism of bailouts, free Americans from burdensome federal mandates, cut wasteful ACA marketing, and protect America’s seniors. President Trump and conservatives have it within their power today to stop the most harmful aspects of the health care law, but time is short; the time to act is now. Want to protect your brain and revitalize your memory?
Internet censorship is hurting conservative websites like DC Clothesline. If you enjoy our articles please consider making a small donation today. Thank YOU! ******************************************************************************** ( The paper, authored by Myles R. Allen, Richard J. Millar and others, reveals that global warming climate models are flat wrong, having been deceptively biased toward worst case warming predictions that now turn out to be paranoid scare mongering. The fear mongering of Al Gore and the government-funded science community can truly only be described as a junk science hoax. The software models, by the way, were fraudulently programmed with dishonest model weights to produce alarming warming predictions no matter what temperature data points were entered into the system. This book is also available as an audio book from Audible.com, so if you enjoy audio books, download a copy there. Here’s what Booker found when he investigated the hacking of the temperature data computer models: From The Real Global Warming Disaster by Christopher Booker: (bold emphasis added) Nothing alerted us more to the curious nature of the global warming scare than the peculiar tactics used by the IPCC to promote its orthodoxy, brooking no dissent. Their computer model had enabled them to produce a new temperature graph quite unlike anything seen before. In Mann’s graph such familiar features as the Mediaeval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age had simply vanished. All those awkward anomalies were shown as having been illusory. As would eventually emerge, there were several very odd features about Mann’s new graph, soon to be known as the ‘hockey stick’ because its shape, a long flattish line curving up sharply at the end, was reminiscent of the stick used in ice hockey. It was not yet clear quite how Mann had arrived at his remarkable conclusions, precisely what data he had used or what methods the IPCC had used to verify his findings. But the purpose of this original study had not been to research into past temperatures. As Spencer was at pains to point out, these avoided the distortions created in surface readings by the urban heat island effect. As was pointed out, tree-rings are not the most reliable guide to assessing past temperatures. Whether evidence was taken from lake sediments or ice cores, glaciers in the Andes or boreholes in every continent (Huang et ai, 1997), the results had been remarkably consistent in confirming that the familiar view was right. There had been a Little Ice Age, across the world. There had similarly been a Mediaeval Warm Period. Some had given their findings only in a local or regional context, others had attempted to give a worldwide picture. The vast majority accepted that earlier centuries had been warmer. 1998) proxy databse and northern hemispheric average temperature series’, Energy and Environment, 14, 752-771. Stephen McIntyre, who began their study, was a financial consultant and statistical analyst specialising in the minerals industry, and was later joined by Ross McKitrick, a professor of economics at Guelph University. Neither made any pretensions to being a climate scientist, but where they did have considerable expertise was in knowing how computers could be used to play around with statistics. When McIntyre fed the data into his own computer, he found that it did not produce the claimed results. But the real problem lay with the ‘principal component analysis’ itself. It turned out that an algorithm had been programmed into Mann’s computer model which ‘mined’ for hockey stick shapes whatever data was fed into it. Indeed their ‘major finding’, according to McKitrick, was that Mann’s own data confirmed that the warming in the fifteenth century exceeded anything in the twentieth century.44 One example of how this worked they later quoted was based on comparing two sets of data used by Mann for his second 19 paper, confined to proxy data from North America. Due to a combination of mathematical error and a dysfunctional review process, they ended up promoting the exact wrong conclusion. The Russians didn’t hack the 2016 election, in case you were wondering.
Many Muslims are peaceful and tolerant, and it has become fashionable in the West to portray Islam as a peaceful and tolerant religion, even in the wake of terrorist attacks like the recent one in New York. But its hard to buy into this charade when it comes to Muslim treatment of women under Sharia law. Plainly put, Sharia subjugates women in virtually every area of their lives. Hank Hanegraaff is president of the Christian Research Institute, and host of the national radio broadcast The Bible Answer Man. Although Allah allows a husband to beat his wife, there is no provision in the Quran for a wife to beat her husband. Only men can do so, and with relative ease. In "Heretic," Ayaan Hirsi Ali explains the shackles of sharia for women, including "the right of men to have unfettered sexual access to their wives, the right of men to practice polygamy, and the restriction of womens legal rights in divorce cases, in estate law, in cases of rape, in court testimony, and in consent to marriage." According to Sharia, women (and little girls) who are captives of war can be raped by their Muslim captors. But girls who have sex outside of marriage are flogged, and women who commit adultery are stoned. Two incidents almost 14 centuries apart show just how deeply the exploitation of women is ingrained In Sharia. In August 2014, after Muslim fighters captured Yazidi villages in the Sinjar region of northern Iraq, they executed the men and adolescent boys by spraying them with automatic-weapons fire. What happened to women and children might truly have been worse. As chronicled in the Islamic State on-line magazine "Dabiq," "After capture, the Yazidi women and children were then divided according to the Sharīah amongst the fighters of the Islamic State who participated in the Sinjar operations, after one fifth of the slaves were transferred to the Islamic States authority to be divided." Captives were sent "to Syria or to other locations inside Iraq, where they were bought and sold for sex." According to a report in The New York Times, one of the captives, a 12-year-old Yazidi child, was raped by a devout Muslim fighter who "took the time to explain that what he was about to do was not a sin. Sadly, the victim was just one of countless thousands in the history of Islam. In 627, Muhammad and his fighters invaded the villages of the prosperous Banu Mustaliq Jewish tribe on the shores of the Red Sea. As with the Yazidis, the Jewish men and boys murdered by Muhammad and his Muslim hordes were spared the unthinkable atrocities their loved ones were about to suffer. In accordance with the law of Allah, many were raped, others sold as chattel. Muhammad, revered by Muslims the world over as the founder of their religion, took a Jewish woman as booty after having her husband and hundreds more men beheaded. Then he forced her on his bed and added her to his stable of wives and concubines. Ayaan Hirsi Ali tells the horrifying story of a 13-year-old girl in Somalia who was found guilty of adultery after reporting that she had been raped by three men. Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow - named after Muhammads 9-year-old wife - was dragged, screaming and flailing, into a sports stadium in Kismayo to be stoned. " It took four men to bury her up to her neck in the hole," Hirsi Ali wrote. " Then fifty men spent ten minutes pelting her with rocks and stones. Then she was dug out of the ground and two nurses examined her to see if she was still alive. Aisha was returned to the hole and the stoning continued." After she died, "a local sheik told a radio station that Aisha had provided evidence, confirmed her guilt, and was happy with the punishment under Islamic law." When will equality-minded Americans stand up for womens rights around the globe? Hank Hanegraaff is the author of "MUSLIM: What You Need to Know about the Worlds Fastest-Growing Religion" and the host of the "Bible Answer Man" radio broadcast and the "Hank Unplugged" podcast.
By FoxNews: City officials in Los Angeles have been trying to legalize street vending for years — L.A. is one of the few major cities where the practice is still illegal — but their efforts are finally gaining ground with local lawmakers. The reason for this hasty change of heart? Lawmakers are trying to stick it to President Trump and his immigration policies. According to NPR, many of the 50,0 street-vending operations in L.A. are currently run by immigrants, some of whom may be in the country illegally. No compatible source was found for this video. By Stephen Owsinski; OpsLens: Ever wake up and go on about your day as you please, without complying with laws or having to pay your fair share of taxes? Although a tax-free life is enticing, I firmly adhere to my patriotic duty as an American citizen investing in the United States by paying taxes. However, sovereign citizens do not feel that way and opt to make up their own rules which, basically, refrain from playing by the rules whatsoever. A man in Washington County, Oregon did just that. It read No driver license or insurance required. Well this sovereign citizen’s vehicle license was to the point, displaying the special characters PRIVATE below which were the words Not for Commerce Use – Private Mode of Travel. No color scheme was used, only a black-on-white graphic design. Frankly, because it was so well designed, I am led to believe it was mass-produced for other sovereign citizens to tool around in their cars or trucks, doing as they please. For his role, Richard Leroy Garrison, 63, was arrested and charged with failure to carry and present a valid license and interfering with a peace officer. His vehicle bearing a fake license plate was impounded by Washington County cops. Invalid license plates equates to an immobilized car, so towing is the remedy. So, a so-called sovereign citizen like Mr. Garrison is traversing roadways we paid for, exempting himself from highway maintenance. These folks are not only anti-police—although it is law enforcement officers who get to engage their subversive tendencies—they are opposed to all-things-government. Self-proclaimed sovereign citizens go about their lives fully relinquishing the responsibility of social norms practiced and funded by law-abiding citizens. Adhering to all federal, state and local laws is not their cup of tea. According to the FBI, sovereign citizens can be violent extremists. The FBI reports that sovereign citizens are a  growing domestic threat to law enforcement, capable of violence and government subversion. At its core, sovereign citizenship holds jurisdictional indifference and believes the US operates without care or concern for its citizens. Hence, they go it alone, albeit illegally. In fact, federal intelligence agencies do not bill them as neither an anarchist group nor a militia, although they sometimes buy and use illegal weapons. Spontaneous outbursts when stopped by police have culminated in volleys of bullets. FBI reports indicate these folks are engaged in and finance themselves with white collar crimes such as mortgage fraud, counterfeit currency and money orders, credit fraud, identity theft, and false tax filings. He may also have had the experience of listening to lyrics such as I Fought the Law and the Law Won. Must be legal to roll on down the road, no ifs, ands or buts. Back to square one: May I see your registration, please?
On November 7, starting around midnight Eastern Time, Twitter.com went down. The outage only lasted around 30-45 minutes, but users believe it had to do with WikiLeaks, the U.S. election, and a DDoS attack. Before the outage, WikiLeaks tweeted about #DNCLeak2, a release of 8263 new emails from the DNC. It seems to be true that #DNCLeak2was trending on Twitter before the blackout, but has since been removed from the trends list. A bit after the outage, the hashtag was added to the trends list once again. A screencap of Twitter’s U.S. trends taken at 11:54 PM PST on November 6, 2016 (after the outage). The hashtag was missing when Twitter went back up, but it seems to be reinstated. ( Twitter) Many are connecting the #DNCLeak2, which implied the Clintons were responsible for the killing of Vince Foster — whose death was ruled a suicide. Here are some twitter users’ ideas on the subject: DDOS ATTACK BY GOV IN PROGRESS! @risetoflyy) November 7, 2016 Do you think Twitter was in on the outage?
Mr Sanders challenged Mrs Clinton in the Democratic primary campaign, gaining massive support from disenchanted Democrats who were not willing to support Mrs Clinton. Speaking to BBC Radio 4, Mr Sanders, a senator from Vermont, was asked whether he would have fared better against President-elect Trump than Mrs Clinton. There are polls out that suggest that but the answer is you don’t know, you really don’t know, he told the Today programme. I would have loved to have had the opportunity. I think it is possible [that he could have won]. Bernie Sanders says he could have done better then Hillary Clinton Hindsight is 20/20. Pressed again on whether he would have proved a tougher challenge for Mr Trump, Mr Sanders continued to dodge the question. The 75-year-old then said it was important to note Hillary Clinton actually won the popular vote ahead of Mr Trump. While more people voted for the former Secretary of State, Mr Trump triumphed in the all-important electoral college, winning 290 electoral votes to Mrs Clinton’s 232. In his new book, ‘Our Revolution’, Mr Sanders has called for a fundamental reassessment of the Democratic Party – which he believes has lost sight of its basic principles. Donald Trump as he makes his acceptance speech in New York following his victory to become he 45th president of the United States. Speaking to NPR Mr Sanders said: I think it’s time for a fundamental reassessment and I think what that reassessment has got to entail is to understand that we cannot have a party that will win if we continue to become dependent on big money interests and campaign fundraisers all over this country. Discussing the shift of voters from Barack Obama to Donald Trump , Mr Sanders added: I think a lot of people who voted for Barack Obama in 2008, voted for Barack Obama in 2012, and who like Barack Obama, said ‘You know what, I am going to go for Trump because he has been clear about feeling the pain of working families. Speaking to donors in a conference call following her defeat, Mrs Clinton said FBI Director James Comey had played a crucial role in her defeat. She said the FBI’s investigations into emails linked to her had halted momentum she had built up following numerous sexual assault allegations which had been levelled against Mr Trump. Mrs Clinton also claimed the investigations fired up Trump supporters.
Shahs of Sunset Recap With a tumultuous and long-standing feud between Reza Farahan and Golnesa GG Gharachedaghi finally resolved, the Shahs of Sunset can get back to more important things, like peace in the Middle East. By throwing a politically incorrect party, of course! Reza and Mike Shouhed nurse their hangovers at lunch, while they recover from Shervin Rpoohparvar’s Malibu party the night before. Mike never went to bed and when Mercedes MJ Javid shows up, it looks like she hasn’t either….for days. Hey, wouldn’t it be the dope-est if all of the Shahs went to Israel too? When they try and get MJ on board, she initially balks, saying she doesn’t want to leave her father while he is sick. But she quickly realizes that she needs a break from her stressful life and I guess another cast trip with this bunch of hooligans is something she might find relaxing. Just kidding, she is still talking about it, saying that her family business is even more important now that there is another family member on the way. Never mind that, Asa has some sage to burn and twirls of happiness to make around the space so that it is cleansed and ready to sell kaftans. Clearly, she must be friends with this designer and clearly, there is a shortage of eligible models for fashion week in L.A. because why else would someone risk having their clothes ripped off incredible hulk style, mid-catwalk if something doesn’t go Lochnessa’s way? If this is anything like Mike’s party, Reza should know this isn’t a good idea but then again, Reza isn’t known for being classy when it comes to décor. I have some marital advice for MJ: you must marry a man for him to qualify as your husband. But my advice aside, MJ saying date nights are about romance and making sure your man knows that you still want to have sex. Reza and Adam arrive just in time to see this and obviously, can’t get enough. shahs-of-sunset-recap (6) With Lochnessa contained, Reza decides to invite Shervin on their trip to Israel and Shervin takes a pass, saying it would negatively affect some of his business relationships. Reza is confused and doesn’t understand why everyone just can’t join him in feeling Jew-y, while GG can’t understand why she would want to go somewhere where they want to bomb Palestinians. Reza waives off her statement and a symbolic champagne bottle pops loudly in the background, startling them all. MJ has escalated pretty quickly on the baby fever scale and is already making Tommy pinky swear he won’t masturbate anymore. Her plan is to get knocked up and then have a legal wedding ceremony so her babies won’t be bastards. Maybe Salma and Halle are just better at reading directions. Or, what normal people would call, moving. They quickly find out that GG isn’t just harboring toxic energy in her apartment but boxes of old blow up donuts she used to sit on after her butt implant surgery. I didn’t know you could replace shoes with robots either so not sure why that business got tossed aside but whatever. MJ gets ready eating fried rice in her bathroom while getting her makeup done. At the party house, Reza and Adam arrive, dressed in full Orthodox Rabbi costumes. Reza muses that since he is more in tune with the Jewish side of his religion, he hopes he can wear the outfit without being disrespectful. In his next breath, he is showing off his sexy burqa bitches, who are there to entertain and serve the party goers in headscarves and sequined bikinis. Mike promises that Israel is very accepting, but GG pushes back again, saying they are not of Muslims. In a surprising twist, Reza immediately apologizes, explaining that he loves everything about Iran but the government. TELL US – WERE YOU OFFENDED BY REZA’S COMMENTS?
Scientists Now Say That "Natural" Changes in Climate Will Offset "Global Warming" in Next Ten Years, But Nevermnind the Fact That Its Colder, We Still Have To Destroy the Industrialized Economy to Forestall Ecopalypse Vic We Have No Party: "We are missing something from that hospital bill f ." LeftCoast Dawg: "What is said at Bruce Ohrs behind doors testimony ." Sponge: "[i] One simply has to ask for how long was Juan t ." Laughing in Texas: "Good morning, horde! ." Senator Maverick Action Figures at the Outrage Outlet!: " It is always more fun minding other peoples busin ." MAGA: "Daily Caller has an article up that the Chinese pu ." Eric Hartman: "I see PDT had to restore the White House flag to h ." Blutarski: "The Romanian twitter is awesome. Forgot My Nic [/i]: " [i]The plastic straw myth was a class project of ." Krebs v Carnot: Epic Battle of the Cycling Stars (TM) [/b][/i][/s][/u]: "[i] 28 This just in, John McCain is still dead. ." illiniwek: "A few more Rs in the Senate might help a few thing ." One Handed Typing Morning Report Monday Overnight Open Thread (8/27/18 ) Could This Possibly Be Real? Our Lunch with David "Glengarry Glen Ross" Mamet The House of Love: Paul Krugman A Michael Moore Mystery (TM) The Dowd-O-Matic! Liberal Consistency and Other Myths Keplers Laws of Liberal Media Bias John Kerry-- The Splunge! Candidate "Divisive" Politics &amp; "Attacks on Patriotism" (very long) The Donkey ("The Raven" parody)
Hours after the deadliest shooting in U.S. history, former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton tweeted a statement attacking the NRA. Clinton asked followers to put politics aside and stand up to the NRA. Her message came shortly after the devastating Las Vegas massacre that left more than 50 dead and 200 injured. We can and must put politics aside, stand up to the NRA, and work together to try to stop this from happening again. — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 2, 2017 Clinton wrote, The crowd fled at the sound of gunshots. Imagine the deaths if the shooter had a silencer, which the NRA wants to make easier to get. A bill introduced earlier this year by Republican Jeff Duncan, frames the issue as a public health matter, saying that gun owners risk suffering hearing damage without access to silencers. Her response, which also called for a change in access to firearms, contrasted President Donald Trump’s response: My warmest condolences and sympathies to the victims and families of the terrible Las Vegas shooting. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 2, 2017 Gun rights was a major issue between the two candidates during last year’s election. Trump called himself a defender of gun rights and the Second Amendment, while Clinton called for common sense regulations on who was able to buy weapons and the need for background checks. Former Vice President Joe Biden also called on Congress to act now to save lives. How long do we let gun violence tear families apart? Congress &amp; the WH should act now to save lives. Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) October 2, 2017 Connecticut’s senators, who have pushed for tighter gun control ever since the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, were also quick to issue statements Monday. Nowhere but America do horrific large-scale mass shootings happen with this degree of regularity, Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., It is positively infuriating that my colleagues in Congress are so afraid of the gun industry that they pretend there aren’t public policy responses to this epidemic. There are, and the thoughts and prayers of politicians are cruelly hollow if they are paired with continued legislative indifference. It’s time for Congress to get off its ass and do something. The primary suspect, Stephen Paddock of Mesquite, Nev., was found dead in his room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay hotel and casino, where he had at least 10 rifles and hundreds of rounds of ammunition. Join over 240,0 people who get the most important news stories and the best shopping deals from Heavy – Delivered right to your inbox.
THURROCK Muslim community gathered to show their solidarity with victims of Manchester attack. A large number of Muslims gathered in Grays from around Thurrock to pray for the victims of this vicious attack. Mr. Abu Khayor and Qaisar Abbas on behalf of Thurrock Muslim community said We strongly condemn this coward attack on innocent people. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. The Thurrock Muslim community stands united in the face of those who seek to harm and divide us. We also pay tribute to our emergency services, police, and volunteers who worked tirelessly to save lives.
This promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with, Facebook, Google, Amazon or Stanley. All participant information is being provided to dealmaxx.net By entering this sweepstakes you will be added to the ‘dealmaxx deal alert’ and the ‘freebiealert daily’. You are not obligated to remain on either of these email lists in order to win this prize. All participant information is being provided to dealmaxx.net. Check out the Stanley 65-Piece Homeowner’s Tool Kit on Amazon
When the constitution was being forged, there was much discussion about what exactly the nation was to be. Some wanted only the loosest of connections between the states, with states being more like individual nations and the Federal Government being little more than a common union, agreeing to join together to protect from outside forces that would attempt to harm any state. When the northern states decided that slavery was to be illegal, southern states were concerned about how they would continue to run their plantations. The issue of "states rights" was one of the largest concerns during the time before the civil war broke out. Southern states wanted to decide for themselves if slavery was to be legal, not letting northern states make such decisions for them. People from the north found the practice to be so reprehensible that they wanted to force the south to stop the practice. While slavery was a significant reason for the civil war, States Rights divided the nation and the defeat of states rights was a significant blow to the efforts of the original founders of the constitution.
Former President Barack Obama has reportedly been called to serve jury duty next month, according to The Chicago Tribune. On Friday, Chief Judge Tim Evans reportedly told county commissioners during a budget hearing that Obama had not only been called for jury duty in Cook County, but that he was also planning on serving it, according to the Tribune. He made it crystal-clear to me through his representative that he would carry out his public duty as a citizen and resident of this community, Evans later told the newspaper. Obviously, we will make certain that he has all the accoutrements that accompany a former president, Evans continued. His safety will be uppermost in our minds. Last week, Obama joined forces with the four other living former United States presidents to host a relief concert to aid victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. The event, Deep From the Heart: The One America Appeal, was held at Texas A&amp;M and featured performances by Sam Moore, Yolanda Evans, Lyle Lovett and a special guest appearance from Lady Gaga — and it apparently also featured a little comedy from George W. Bush. Jimmy Carter (left), George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Bill Clinton After all five former presidents took the stage at the event, Bill Clinton stepped to the mic to deliver remarks. Meanwhile, behind him, the younger Bush made an unknown comment to Obama out of the corner of his mouth, prompting his predecessor to break into laughter. Obama quickly stifled his laughter as Bush smiled and shot him a couple of sideways looks. While Bush’s remark was sadly inaudible to the rest of us, Stephen Colbert stepped up to offer some guesses at what he said during Monday’s episode of The Late Show. Cueing up a clip from the concert and doing his best Dubya impression, Colbert quipped, Hey, were you born in Kenya? Another option: Twenty bucks if you pants Clinton right now. Or perhaps Bush said, Yo, real quick — where’s Puerto Rico?
During the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in New Delhi on Friday, former President Barack Obama threw some expert-level shade President Donald Trumps way. As the world knows, Trump cant tear himself away from Twitter. He seems to thrive on approval, especially on social media. So imagine how it burns that Obama has twice as many followers as Trump. In a conversation with journalist Karan Thapar, Obama said: And look, Ive got 100 million Twitter followers. I mean, I actually have more than other people who use it more often.
Steve Bannon is on the warpath, continuing his mission to drain the swamp. Long before President Trump was a glint in the Tea Party’s eye, the Breitbart News chairman was hard at work laying the foundation to what would be a dominating force in Republican politics at the intersection of Conservatism, Libertarianism and Populism – promoting the likes of Sarah Palin, Ted Cruz and Rand Paul to national prominence. The former Chief White House Strategist is fresh off stumping for firebrand jurist Roy Moore, who claimed a decisive victory against Sen. Luther Strange – a swamp varmint appointed under dubious circumstances to fill Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ vacated Alabama Senate seat. Bannon’s influence in the Alabama blowout has many wondering what’s next for the populist rabble-rouser. To that end, he flew from Alabama to Colorado to begin recruiting western candidates to run against Republican incumbents…. Bannon also plans to head back down south to have meetings with those who may want to run in Tennessee for the seat Sen. Bob Corker announced he will vacate, and in Mississippi, to challenge sitting Republican Sen. Roger Wicker. As a former Goldman Sachs banker who grew disillusioned with their strong-arm tactics, Bannon witnessed the decimation of the working middle class, as Wall St. firms facilitated the largest betrayal of Americans in history while creating a looming debt bubble which could still lead to systemic collapse. Bannon witnessed first hand how Goldman Sachs, once a monastery to the ambitious investment banker, became The Black House. At first glance, Trumpism and Bannonism bear many similarities. Rooted in right-wing populism and traditionalism alike, both ideologies seek to shift the center of power from Corporate America back to the American worker. Both men believe the elite have benefited disproportionately from globalization, while hallowing out a once prosperous middle class in the process. And both Trump and Bannon have furiously railed against a swamp that has profited handsomely from endless spillage of blood and treasure abroad, while cities at home suffer from racial and economic tensions stoked by the Obama administration. That’s where the similarities between Trumpism and Bannonism end. Herein lies the rub for Trump voters – the commander-in-chief has demonstrated a very ‘swamp-like’ flexibility on matters ranging from healthcare to immigration, leaving Trump’s most oft-repeated campaign promises on the cutting room floor. In September, for example, President Trump shocked Washington by announcing a tentative framework to work with Democratic leadership on DACA and the looming budget crisis. Washington Times reports: President Trump and Democratic leaders on Wednesday did what Washington does best: striking a bipartisan deal to boost borrowing and spending, keeping the government running into the next fiscal year and speeding disaster relief to Texas and Florida. Schumer said, On DREAMers, he said, you know, that he understood that they didn’t come in through any fault of their own, that they’re good Americans, good kids. And then he said he wants the wall in return. And he tried that for about 15 minutes, but he’s not going to push me around verbally or any other way. He added, And he finally said, OK, we won’t do the wall. We’ll do some other kind of border security. One may never know, and thus exists the problem. Instead, an increasingly malleable Trump is disappointing even his most ardent supporters. Bannonism, by its very nature, views compromise with the establishment as a last resort. Alas, it’s clear that the desires of American conservatives have fallen on tone-deaf ears. When I look at Roy Moore, I see someone who is clearly apocalyptic, and I don’t see anything else to him, and I think that it’s bad news for the GOP. The concern is embryonic of the neurosis plaguing the establishment (and like it or not, a powerful subset of the Conservative movement). They actually care what the talking heads on CNN think. Meanwhile, every-day American conservatives have stopped trusting the Very Fake News network. Perhaps it’s high time Republican elites follow suit.
Show Caption While President Donald Trump is attempting to fulfill his campaign promise to reduce illegal immigration, some young adults who were raised in America are fearing deportation. Among those who could be deported is Jesus Contreras, a 23-year-old paramedic who worked six-straight days last week, rescuing fellow Houston-area residents from the flooding left behind from Hurricane Harvey. Contreras told NBC News last week that his family came to the United States when he was age 6. His family wanted to escape what he described as a "violent situation" in his hometown of Nuevo Laredo. After six exhausting days of saving lives, Contreras learned on Friday that Trump was considering ending DACA. DACA protects a group of 800,0 American residents from deportation. Those 800,0 young undocumented immigrants were those who entered the United States as a child and have been in the United States since 2007. Those who qualify under DACA are given two-year work permits, which allows them to stay in the United States with some legal status. " We just got hit by a hurricane here — and now were getting hit by another storm, an even bigger one," Contreras told NBC News on Friday. The threat of getting deported made it more challenging for first responders during Harvey, Contreras told the Houston Chronicle. " People were scared that boats from U.S. immigration services were out there," Contreras told the Chronicle. " People werent sure if they were trying to round up people from the water and take them straight to the immigration center." On Tuesday, Trump is expected to announce that DACA will come to an end in six months. The six months give a deeply divided Republican-held Congress an opportunity to do something it has struggled to do: Immigration reform. While Trump was on the campaign trail, he promised to end DACA. But since being elected, Trump said that those under DACA "shouldnt worry." In the meantime, people like Contreras continue to go to work not knowing how many days they have left in America. " These are families just like anybody else," Contreras told NBC News. " Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Donald Trump defended past disparaging remarks about women during Thursday’s GOP debate, saying he doesn’t have time for total political correctness and that oftentimes he’s just kidding. Youve called women you dont like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals, Fox News debate moderator Megyn Kelly told Trump. Does that sound to you like the temperament of a man we should elect as president, she added. Trump said those comments were directed at TV personality Rosie O’Donnell, who has publicly feuded with Trump in the past. I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct. Ive been challenged by so many people and I dont frankly have time for total political correctness and to be honest with you this country doesnt have time either, Trump shot back to cheers. Frankly what I say and oftentimes its fun, its kidding, we have a good time, Trump added.
POLK COUNTY, Fla. - People with active warrants in one Florida county might want to think twice about heading to a shelter for Hurricane Irma. Judd also posted that sex offenders and sex predators would not be admitted to the shelters. Sheriffs spokeswoman Carrie Horstman says theyre trying to educate the public before the storm hits this weekend. She says theyre hoping people with warrants will turn themselves and use the next few days to deal with their legal issues. If you go to a shelter for #Irma and you have a warrant, well gladly escort you to the safe and secure shelter called the Polk County Jail 5GX9XQBi— Polk County Sheriff (@PolkCoSheriff) September 6, 2017 If you have a warrant, turn yourself in to the jail - its a secure shelter 8— Polk County Sheriff (@PolkCoSheriff) September 6, 2017 We cannot and we will not have innocent children in a shelter with sexual offenders &amp; predators. Polk County Sheriff (@PolkCoSheriff) September 6, 2017
In this Dec. 7, 2017 file photo, Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., speaks during a House Judiciary hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington. ( AP Kaster) (Newser) – If his TV was tuned to Fox News on Tuesday, President Trump surely didnt like what he heard. Rep. Trey Gowdy, a Trump ally and chairman of the House Oversight Committee, appeared on the network to poke holes in Trumps claim that the FBI planted a spy in his 2016 campaign. According to memos from James Comey, "President Trump himself … said, If anyone connected with my campaign was working with Russia, I want you to investigate it, and it sounds to me like that is exactly what the FBI did," Gowdy said, referring to reports that FBI informant Stefan Halper reached out to Trump advisers George Papadopoulos and Carter Page before the 2016 election. Gowdy added that a Justice Department briefing last week convinced him the move had "nothing to do" with Trump. What Politico calls Gowdys "significant pushback against the president" then received backing from another Trump supporter, Fox News commentator Andrew Napolitano. " There is no evidence" to support Trumps claims that a spy infiltrated his campaign in order to pass information to the Obama administration and his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, and "Id want to see evidence before I made an allegation that outrageous," he said, before describing Halpers actions as "standard operating procedure in intelligence gathering and in criminal investigations." Despite anchor Shepard Smith later saying much the same, Trump stuck to his "Spygate" theory at a Tuesday rally in Nashville, asking the crowd, "How do you like the fact they had people infiltrating our campaign?"
The US Supreme Court has ruled that Donald Trump’s ban on travellers from six Muslim-majority countries and two others can go into full effect, even as legal challenges against the executive order continue in several states. The ban means that the US can refuse entry visas to travellers from Chad, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen, as well as North Korea and Venezuela. The ruling does not mean that the Supreme Court has accepted the ban as constitutional, but that it finds persuasive the Trump administration’s argument that an emergency injunction against the ban was unnecessary, The Guardian reports. US Attorney General Jeff Sessions called the ruling "a substantial victory for the safety and security of the American people". The Constitution gives the President the responsibility and power to protect this country from all threats foreign and domestic, and this order remains vital to accomplishing those goals, Sessions said. Omar Jadwat, director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrants’ Rights Project said he was disappointed by the court’s decision. President Trump’s anti-Muslim prejudice is no secret - he has repeatedly confirmed it, including just last week on Twitter, Jadwat told The Washington Post. We continue to stand for freedom, equality, and for those who are unfairly being separated from their loved ones.
Courtesy Danielle Beatty YORK, PA — A video circulating on Facebook has some residents in York city crying foul, while the York City Police Department is encouraging residents to not jump to conclusions. CBS21 News Brandi Proctor spoke with York City Police Chief Wes Kahley who explained the video showed only a small portion of what happened and that his officer was defending himself. Watch the video here: Chief Kahley stated he does believe the 10-second video is disturbing, but added that its the events leading up to the video that caused the officer to react. The video showing 23-year-old Melissa Penn, being punched by an unidentified police officer surfaced on social media early Monday morning. Police allege Penn caused a disturbance inside the popular bar on the 400 block of East Market Street in York before attacking the office and kneeing him several times. -- All of this happened before the cameras started rolling. Residents CBS21 News spoke with say seeing a woman being punched is hard to watch, regardless of the circumstance. " One thing we want to make sure of, is that our officers are doing their jobs correctly. We want to make sure they are treating people with respect. Again, I dont expect any officers to be punching bags," Chief Kahley said. Police say there is more video that may be released in the future. In the meantime, they are asking the public to not draw any conclusions. Police said the woman depicted in the video has been arrested, but did not release the charges pending against her.
A Hillary Clinton campaign staffer responded to an interview with a Black Lives Matter activist with one word: yuck. Clinton staffers circulated a radio interview in January with one of the co-founders of Black Lives Matter Alicia Garza. Clinton herself flagged the interview, according to a new batch of hacked emails released by Wikileaks. In an email, Clinton’s research director Tony Carrk asked his team to find the interview because HRC said there was a segment with a woman from BLM who said ruined black lives. Another staffer then sent a transcript of an interview on the New Yorker radio hour with Garza, who said Hillary shunned and lectured Black Lives Matter during a  tense meeting with the group in August 2015. At the end of the interview Garza said she would not vote for Hillary Clinton in the general election. Sara Solow, a domestic policy adviser to Clinton, responded to the transcript saying, yuck.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. intelligence agencies provided advanced warning to Russia about a major terrorist plot in St. Petersburg, allowing Moscow to thwart an attack that could have killed large numbers of people, the White House said on Sunday. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia called President Donald J. Trump today to thank him for the advanced warning the United States intelligence agencies provided to Russia concerning a major terror plot in Saint Petersburg, Russia, the White House said in a statement.
Hurricane Harvey reveals an America that many in the media seem not to know exists: a multi-ethnic, multiracial country where people, for the most part, get along. For those who claim that President Donald Trump "coarsened" our politics and "set back race relations," Hurricane Harvey was pretty bad optics. But last week they saw Trump, in Texas, looking quite presidential in his role as comforter in chief. They saw photos of a president soothing and embracing survivors, no matter their race or gender or sexual orientation. If he is a germaphobe, his fear must be in remission, as he hugged adult survivors and held kids in his arms. Texans, including black ones, appeared pleased by Trumps visit even as Democrats like Maxine Waters have denounced him as "racist," calling for his impeachment as Harvey was bearing down on Texas. Imagine this: neighbors helping neighbors, irrespective of race. But really, this is an old American story. Frenchman Alexis de Tocqueville traveled to this fascinating new country called the United States of America in the 1830s. He wrote about what he considered an astonishing number of "mutual aid societies," or charitable organizations and clubs set up to help a communitys needy. Tocqueville wrote: "Americans group together to hold fetes, found seminaries, build inns, construct churches, distribute books, dispatch missionaries to the antipodes. They establish hospitals, prisons, schools by the same method. Finally, if they wish to highlight a truth or develop an opinion by the encouragement of a great example, they form an association. . " The love and respect of your neighbors must be gained by a long series of small services, hidden deeds of goodness, a persistent habit of kindness, and an established reputation of selflessness. . I have seen Americans making great and sincere sacrifices for the key common good and a hundred times I have noticed that, when needs be, they almost always gave each other faithful support." Tocqueville considered Americans remarkable spirit of charitable giving a matter of enlightened self-interest: "American moralists do not claim that one must sacrifice oneself for ones fellows because it is a fine thing to do but they are bold enough to say that such sacrifices are as necessary to the man who makes them as to those gaining from them. . Enlightened self-love continually leads them to help one another and inclines them to devote freely a part of their time and wealth to the welfare of the state." America just elected and re-elected a black president. Still, President Barack Obama famously said racism is "still part of (Americas) DNA." Well, Americas DNA clearly changed, and dramatically so. In 1958, when Gallup asked whether Americans would vote for a black person for president, 54 percent said, "No." A 2006 Los Angeles poll found just 3 percent of Republicans and 4 percent of Democrats said they would not vote for a black presidential candidate. In fact, more Americans (14 percent) said they would not vote for a Mormon or a 72-year-old than the number who refused to vote for a black president. In the 1950s, interracial black-white marriages were extremely rare. Today, intermarriage of all races and ethnicities accounts for 17 percent of all marriages. In liberal Los Angeles, where intermarriage is common? If America were as racist as many in the media think, why do blacks excel in two of the most competitive fields -- sports and entertainment? On Forbes list of highest-earning celebrities, blacks occupy seven of the top 25 slots, including Sean Combs, who clocks in at $130 million annually; Beyonce at $105 million; and Drake at $94 million. As more blacks recognize that Republicans are not out to get them, and they look at cities like Detroit under Democratic leadership, Trump can potentially tip the black vote in his partys direction more than any Republican since Abraham Lincoln. COPYRIGHT 2017 LAURENCE A. ELDER DISTRIBUTED BY CREATORS.COM Secret Message from God Found in Human DNA (See What It Says)
Hillary Clinton jad vowed to open up UFO files if she made the White House Mrs Clinton had courted the so-called alien disclosure community for the past year after it emerged she and campaign manger John Podesta were keen to release any top-secret files held by the US Government about the subject of aliens and UFOs. Their pledge was closely followed by the Paradigm Research Group, a campaign organisation set up by Steve Bassett, the only registered lobbyist on the UFO issue in the US. Mr Bassett has been calling for an end to an alleged "truth embargo" that he and other UFO enthusiasts believe was put in place by global government to hide the truth about aliens visiting earth from the public since the infamous 1947 Roswell UFO incident in New Mexico. But, now Mr Bassett is hoping Hillary Clinton and Mr Podesta can still influence incumbent President Barack Obama to disclose the files and reveal the truth before he leaves office in Janaury. A statement on the PRG website says: "There are 70 days left to persuade Secretary Clinton, John Podesta and President Obama to engage the media on the extraterrestrial issue leading to a White rapprochement and Disclosure under President Obama." In January, Mrs Clinton said she also wanted to open up on what is happening at the mysterious Area 51 military base in Nevada, where UFO conspiracists believe evidence of alien technology is hidden away. Clinton claimed she would get to the bottom once and for all of questions and controversy over what the US Government does or does not know about the mysterious subject. Responding to questions about UFOs from a reporter during an election interview in New Hampshire, she said: Yes, I am going to get to the bottom of it. Clinton even admitted that she realises Earth may have actually been visited by extraterrestrials. Clinton and husband former president Bill Clinton have allegedly tried to force disclosure of UFO files before, but even when the latter was in the White House it did not fully happen. Bill Clinton met billionaire Laurance Rockefeller at his ranch in Wyoming in 1995 where they held discussions on the Rockefeller Initiative to secure release of all previously classified UFO files. In 2007, Mrs Clinton acknowledged that among the top freedom of information (FOI) requests her husband received as president were requests related to UFO and alien disclosure. ISS Nasa live cam cuts after suddenly locking on to mystery glowing UFO She added in the new interview: "I think we may have been visited already. In 2014 her Mr Podesta said his biggest regret during his time as top adviser to President Obama was not securing release of classified UFO files. Other alien hunters are now banking on President elect Donald Truth to unlock the files. UFO blogger Scott C waring said: "Will Trump reveal UFO info to the public, or will he skirt this issue?"
thats hot I mean, it worked in Brazil, where Gisele Bündchen — supermodel, World Wildlife Federation representative, and behind-the-scenes shaper of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady’s political consciousness — tweeted at Brazilian President Michel Temer: Its our job to protect our Mother Earth. @MichelTemer, please say NO to reducing protection in the Amazon! 4MrhGg Bündchen’s tweet concerns legislation that would have removed protection from some parts of the Amazon rainforest. Temer’s administration has been remarkably anti-conservation, threatening indigenous lands in favor of new agricultural, mineral extraction, and hydroelectric developments. Temer responded: That means, I vetoed those bills, because you are extremely beautiful. This seems like a good approach to try in America. Can someone please text Kendall Jenner to ask if she feels like doing something substantive for the greater good?
In March 2016, Trump tweeted: Lyin’ Ted Cruz just used an image of Melania from a GQ shoot in his ad. Be careful, Lyin’ Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife! Trump followed up his initial comment by retweeting an unflattering photo comparing Heidi Cruz with his wife, Melania, stating, A picture is worth a thousand words. It was reported in the same story that a friend of Diana, Selina Scott, said the princess felt stalked after her divorce from Prince Charles; Trump bombarded Diana at Kensington Palace with massive bouquets of flowers. In a tweet that Trump later deleted, he wrote on April 16, 2016: If Hillary Clinton can’t satisfy her husband what makes her think she can satisfy America? In December 2015, Trump said Clinton got schlonged by President Barack Obama during the 2008 presidential primaries. In doing so, he turned the Yiddish word for penis into a verb. According to CNN, Yiddish scholars were shocked by the word’s use in a filthy context. Trump condemned Clinton for shouting during her appeal to female voters. In an MSNBC interview, he acknowledged that he was using gendered terms when referencing Clinton’s decibel level. Trump has also criticized her credentials for president by saying, Frankly, if Hillary Clinton were a man, I don’t think she’d get 5 percent of the vote. The only thing she’s got going is the women’s card. The Republican candidate followed that remark up by calling Clinton an enabler of her husband’s infidelity. California: Say Goodbye To Your Mortgage If You Have No Missed Payments Forget Skinny Jeans. These Are What You Should Be Wearing This Summer. She was president of Trump’s Castle casino resort and the Plaza Hotel. According to the New York Times, she was only paid an annual salary of $1. He wrote in his book The Art of the Comeback that he regretted taking Ivana out of the role of being his wife and making her a businesswoman, because business then dominated their personal lives as well. Ivana has praised her ex-husband, telling the New York Post that his trust in her business skills was proof of his respect for women. When she filed for divorce from Trump, instigated by his affair with Marla Maples, she stated in a deposition that her husband had raped her. However, she later said that it was all the lawyers, adding, I was never abused. It was Donald Trump’s affair with Marla Maples that led to his divorce from Ivana Trump. The couple married in 1993 and divorced six years later in 19. It was Trump’s relationship with Maples that also provided fodder for recently resurfaced allegations that Trump posed as his own public relations rep in interviews with various publications. In the interview, Miller bragged that Trump was constantly pursued by famous women and that he’s living with Marla and he’s got three other girlfriends. According to Carswell, Trump later apologized for the ruse, saying it was a joke gone awry, though he currently denies he ever posed as his own rep. In the recording of the phone conversation, Miller -- whose tone, cadence and style of speaking are all remarkably Trump-like -- gave intimate details of Trump’s encounters with celebrities like Italian singer and model Carla Bruni and pop star Madonna. Of stories that Trump dated Bruni, the woman now married to former French President Nicolas Sarkozy told London’s Daily Mail, Trump is obviously a lunatic. She stated Trump dreamed up the match for publicity sake. It’s so untrue and I’m deeply embarrassed by it all.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is recommending to the Justice Department that no charges should be brought against Hillary Clinton for her use of private email servers as secretary of state, FBI Director James Comey announced Tuesday. " Our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case," Comey said after detailing the FBIs findings in its investigation of Clintons use of personal email servers. " No charges are appropriate in this case." Comey announced that the FBI has completed its investigation of Clintons use of a personal email server and is now referring the matter to the Justice Department to decide whether to prosecute. Comey made clear he didnt coordinate his statement with the Justice Department or any other part of the government. The FBI assessed whether classified information was improperly stored or transmitted on Clintons personal email server or whether classified information was mishandled intentionally or in a grossly negligent way -- which is a felony -- or whether people knowingly removed classified information from appropriate systems or storage facilities, which is a misdemeanor, Comey said. He added that the FBI also investigated whether there was computer intrusion by nation states or hostile actors. Comey said that the FBI found that Clinton actually used "several different servers" and administrators of those servers during her four years as secretary of state as well as "numerous mobile devices" to send and receive email on her personal domain. When one of the servers was decommissioned in 2013, the software was removed, but millions of email fragments remained in a "slack space of the server" which the FBI had to use to piece the puzzle of her emails back together. " We searched through all of it to understand what was there and what parts of the puzzle we could put back together again," Comey said. From the group of approximately 30,0 emails that Clinton provided to the State Department, the FBI found 110 emails in 52 email chains that "have been determined by the owning agency to contain classified information at the time they were sent or received," Comey said. Eight of those chains contained top-secret information, Comey said, 36 chains contained information that was considered secret at the time and eight were considered confidential. Comey said that the FBI "found no evidence that any of the additional work-related emails were intentionally deleted in an effort to conceal them in some way." Therefore, Comey said the FBI has "reasonable confidence" that there was "no intentional misconduct" in connection to the sorting of Clintons emails. The FBI director, however, slammed Clinton for her general use of the email server. " There is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information," he said, adding that anyone in Clintons position or in the positions of people she communicated with "should have known that an unclassified system was no place for that conversation." Comey said that the FBI did not find "direct evidence" that Clintons personal email domain was hacked successfully, but cautioned that the government is "unlikely to find such direct evidence." At the same time, he warned that "hostile actors gained access" to private email accounts with which Clinton was in regular contact. He also said that because Clinton sent and received work emails in territories of sophisticated adversaries, Comey said, "It is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clintons personal email account." The conclusion of the investigation comes after Clinton met with FBI officials in Washington for three and a half hours Saturday about her use of the private email server she used while she was secretary of state, her campaign said. Federal investigators also interviewed Clintons top aides, including Huma Abedin, who was questioned in April. Clinton had turned over her email server to the FBI in August, and at the time she turned it over, it had been wiped clean. In May, Clinton told CBS News that she expected a quick conclusion to the FBI probe into whether she mishandled classified information on her server, which Clinton used exclusively to send and receive State Department correspondence. " I always took classified material seriously," she told "Face the Nation" host John Dickerson. " There was never any material marked classified that was sent or received by me. And I look forward to this being wrapped up." There has been increased scrutiny of the Justice Department, which oversees the FBI, and Attorney General Loretta Lynch after she had a spontaneous half-hour-long meeting with former President Clinton early last week. The attorney general said Friday of the meeting with Clinton that she "certainly wouldnt do it again," a sentiment seconded by the former president and by Hillary Clinton, who told MSNBC in an interview that "hindsight is 20-20." Lynch confirmed Friday that she would be accepting the recommendations of the career prosecutors in the email case, though she stopped short of formally recusing herself from the matter. CBS News Paula Reid contributed to this report.
Getty Bono and the Edge are seen playing a set in honor of the new iPod in 2004. ( Getty) U2 has cancelled its September 16 concert in St. Louis, Missouri after a night of unrest over a police officer’s acquittal that saw rocks thrown at officers, injuries, and arrests. The mayor’s house was damaged, and a public library’s windows smashed, among the other developments. In the midst of all of this, U2 wrote on Saturday morning on Twitter: Tonight’s St. Louis Show Cancelled ‘We cannot risk fans’ safety. The iconic band released a lengthy statementexplaining the decision to no longer play at The Dome America Center. It was posted to U2’s website and reads: Live Nation and U2 regrettably announce their St. Louis show scheduled for tonight, September 16, 2017 has been cancelled. We have been informed by the St. Louis Police Department that they are not in a position to provide the standard protection for our audience as would be expected for an event of this size. We have also been informed that local crowd security personnel would not be at full capacity. In light of this information, we cannot in good conscience risk our fans’ safety by proceeding with tonight’s concert. As much as we regret having to cancel, we feel it is the only acceptable course of action in the current environment. – Live Nation and U2 Fans who purchased tickets online will receive a refund on the credit card tickets were ordered on. Refunds for non-internet purchases will be available starting Monday at 10am at point of purchase. Here’s the band’s tweet on the cancellation: Here’s some of the reaction on Twitter. Some people expressed sadness, others said they were angry (at those causing the unrest, at U2), and others wanted the band to make a social statement. The concert being cancelled upset fans on social media, but it was just one of multiple closings in St. Louis because of riots and protests over a judge’s acquittalof a white police officer in the shooting death of an African-American man, Anthony Lamar Smith. Prosecutors had argued that the former police officer, Jason Stockley, planted a gun after the shooting, something he denied.
Only seven months into his puzzling presidency, Donald Trump has accomplished an odd achievement: He’s made Sigmund Freud relevant again. I think he’s crazy, said Sen. Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, speaking into an open microphone about Trump. J. Brien Comey, father of fired FBI director Jim Comey, thinks Trump belongs in an institution. Conservative columnist Jennifer Rubin has questioned the president’s mental stability. Many prominent liberals, conservatives, moderates, and libertarians have concluded that the president is off his rocker. Not content to call the decision dumb and racist, which they did, they played the sanity card. The president, added HBO comedic pundit John Oliver, is out of his mind. Utter insanity, proclaimed Susan Hay, a co-founder of a Florida-based pro-immigrant and refugee nonprofit. In the real world, such a development is called processing new information. In modern U.S. politics, it’s considered treason -- or insanity. This time, it was conservatives who melted down. Not the illegal kind, the kind from outer space. At this point, she tweeted, who DOESN’T want Trump impeached? Jody was kidding, or at least half-kidding, but stressing out to this degree over politics is becoming a national obsession. And as for labeling as cuckoo those with whom we disagree, well, that’s an old KGB tactic. We can’t let Vladimir Putin do that to us. Unfortunately, the psychology racket is full of those with no sense of history. The cover gives the game away, but the publisher also included a foreword from 91-year-old psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton, who offers the melodramatic view that clinicians who don’t warn the world about Donald Trump’s shortcomings are akin to Nazi doctors who worked at Auschwitz. Lifton and others associated with this project are part of something called the Duty to Warn project. For those too young to remember, Barry Goldwater was a conservative Arizona senator and the Republican Party’s 1964 presidential nominee. Key in the creation of the U.S. Air Force Academy, Goldwater was also a decorated World War II pilot, a fiscal conservative, a fierce anti-communist, and friends in the Senate with John F. Kennedy. Unlike Trump, Goldwater did not become president. He lost to Lyndon Johnson in a historic landslide. Goldwater won his case, despite the high bar public officials face in such matters. When he testified in federal court, he came across as rational, composed, normal, and emotionally healthy. His critics were the ones who were unhinged. Donald Trump seemed almost happy last week. Sure, he wants good coverage in the New York Times. He was in his element comforting hurricane victims. He could be the sanest politician in Washington right now.
President-elect Mr Trump outlined his tough stance to root out the millions who are in the country illegally, particularly criminals. Mr Trump said that once the border was secure, immigration officials would take a decision over what action to take with remaining migrants. But he also said deportations would take place immediately after he entered the White House. He said: What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, where a lot of these people, probably two million, it could be even three million, we are getting them out of our country or we are going to incarcerate. But we’re getting them out of our country, they’re here illegally. He said a determination would be made about remaining illegal immigrants. He said: After the border is secure and after everything gets normalised, we’re going to make a determination on the people that they’re talking about who are terrific people, they’re terrific people but we are gonna make a determination at that. But before we make that determination… it’s very important, we are going to secure our border. I fully support and agree with Trump’s stance, says Paul Nuttall Ukip MEP Last night, Ukip MEP Gerard Batten called on Britain to take tougher action on illegal immigrants and said it would be easier to do so after having left the European Union. He said: Donald Trump is absolutely right. By their very nature, illegal immigrants are in the country illegally. People who come here illegally should be sent back home and those who have committed crimes expressly so. Donald Trump isn’t constrained by the Human Rights Act and the European Court of Human Rights so he can get rid of them. We have something like a million illegal immigrants here. Paul Nuttall, also a Ukip MEP, said: I fully support and agree with Trump’s stance… and I wish Britain was better at deporting foreign criminals. Not only are they in the country illegally, they have broken their obligation to live by the rules of the host country. We also need to be robust in returning illegal immigrants. One of the frustrating things is that when someone comes here and they break the law we seem to be powerless to deport them. We should not be worried about their human rights. Britons are fed up with people abusing the system. At the weekend, during his first recorded TV interview after being elected on Tuesday, Mr Trump was asked whether a wall with Mexico would be built and said: Yes, but he appeared to backtrack suggesting it would be partly some fencing. Mr Trump said: For certain areas… a wall is more appropriate… I’m very good at this, it’s called construction. A wave of protests continued yesterday afternoon in New York and Oakland in California as demonstrators took to the streets for the fifth consecutive day. So far, arrests have been in the dozens and a number of police have been injured. Slogans including not my President and love trumps hate were chanted by campaigners on the march in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and elsewhere. Protesters say Mr Trump threatens their civil and human rights. A protestor in New York holds a sign which reads, Trump is not my President The protests come as it emerged that Hillary Clinton could receive two million more votes than Mr Trump when the final tally is made. The latest findings show Democrat Mrs Clinton has received 400,0 more votes than the President-elect – 60.4 million compared with 60 million. Campaigners are fighting for reform as they suggest the US electoral college system is outdated. The result is similar to the situation which arose in the 20 election when Al Gore lost having defeated George W Bush in the popular vote.
Altercations between police and protesters in Austin, TX. Radicals lead anti confederacy rally in Austin, Texas. Hundreds marched against a scheduled (but then canceled) "Dixie Freedom Rally" in Austin, Texas, on Saturday. Public pressure against the event was immense, and after receiving threats of violence, the Texas Confederate Militia decided to postpone the event to a later date. That didnt stop the counter march the Austin chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America had planned. Chanting their way through downtown Austin, the capital of Texas, demonstrators denounced Confederate symbolism and called for the dismantling of public works and streets that bear the name of Confederate icons. At the end of the march, fights broke out both between protesters and between protesters and police. Event organizers reached out to lawyers and are fighting the charges. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, only Virginia has more Confederate symbols (which include roads, schools, statues and county names) than Texas. Austin has already been taking steps to remove public reminders of its history as part of the Confederacy. Just last week Texas House Speaker Joe Strauss called for removal of a plaque near the Capitol that asserts slavery was not the underlying cause of the Civil War. And finally after years of resistance, administrators at the University of Texas Austin decided to take down Confederate statues on campus. Related stories The University of Texas is removing its Confederate statues Workers removed a statue of Robert E. Lee from a Dallas park under police guard Retailers say Confederate flag sales are surging after Charlottesville
When the removal of a sign becomes a sign of the times… In the open border utopia ushered in by President Barack Obama, it’s no longer socially acceptable to think Americans speak English and thus, down comes a famous sign at Geno’s Steaks in South Philly. More from Fox News: Geno’s has held its prominent location at South Philadelphia’s ‘cheesesteak junction’, at the diagonal meeting of 9th and Passyunk–and across from cheesesteak originator Pat’s, since 1966, but Vento’s contentious sign set it apart from the rest. Joey Vento, who died in 2011 at age 71, drew regional and national attention over his This is America, When Ordering Speak English sign posted to the walk-up window at ‘Geno’s’. After Vento’s death, his son Geno, named for his father’s shop, apparently decided to take the sign down. SEE ALSO: Dana Perino Erupts ‘Like Mount Vesuvius’: ‘After 20 Years Of Defending These Guys … Done!’ Turns out, the descendant of Italian immigrants never refused service to anyone and said he posted the sign as political commentary on illegal immigration, according to Fox News. Geno’s Steaks released a statement on the removal of the sign, saying it’s time to move on. While Geno continues to honor his father’s traditions of good quality food, cleanliness and giving back to the community, he has decided that after 10 years it is time to move on, the statement said. It’s about what you do and what your mark in life is, and Geno wants to change that mark in life. Geno’s was in the news recently when GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump, who is strongly opposed to illegal immigration, came by for a cheesesteak while campaigning.
All in all, the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards was a pretty good Emmys. Stephen Colbert didnt make a single racially insensitive joke, Lena Waithe gave an incredibly inspiring acceptance speech, the gay episode of Black Mirror won twice, and there was not a Modern Family win in sight. But there was one dark cloud over the evening: the surprise, supposedly comedic appearance by disgraced former press secretary Sean Spicer. Judging by the Sean Spicer Emmy reactions on Twitter, viewers were not pleased to see this angry little man joking around with his pal Stephen Colbert on their television screen. Maybe its a good thing the 2017 Emmys got this questionable political stunt out of the way early. The Former White House Press Secretary to President Trump was brought out on stage by host Stephen Colbert at the end of his opening monologue. The real Spicer rolled out on a mobile podium, famously used by Melissa McCarthy in her impressions of him on Saturday Night Live. He referenced his famously inaccurate judgment of the inauguration crowd size by saying, This is the largest audience to witness the Emmys, period. Its totally fine that he spewed blatant lies to the American public, because now we can all laugh about it together! The audience laughed and cheered for this former face of the Donald Trump presidency, and then later in the night gave all the Emmys to The Handmaids Tale, you know, that show about how a dystopian, oppressive government is a bad thing. Anyways, Im not the only one who found this particular political stunt to be in fairly bad taste. The reaction on Twitter to Sean Spicers Emmy appearance was overwhelmingly negative — from both regular viewers and celebrity viewers. Former SNL player and actress Jenny Slate tweeted that she was "so grossed out" by the decision. She said, Truly so grossed out by A GROUP of people ever even considering the idea of real life Spicer at the Emmys. Similarly, actor Zach Braff tweeted, Im not ready to laugh "with" Sean Spicer. I think he is an evil, opportunistic liar that hurt our country. Filmmaker and actor Rob Reiner, known for his role as Max Belfort in The Wolf of Wall Street, tweeted, DT is a sick liar. If we reward Sean Spicer for enabling his sickness, we are saying we accept a mentally ill POTUS. And of course, though she didnt share her opinion on Twitter, Melissa McCarthys reaction when the camera cut to her during the real Spicers bit said a thousand words: She did not approve. Many non-celebrities also shared their disapproval on Twitter, some viewer lamenting the double standard for 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and this small angry liar. Others critiqued the Television Academy for its hypocrisy. Again, though the night was filled anti-Trump sentiment, inspiring speeches about political activism, and supposedly subversive post-Trump television, Spicer was still invited onto that very same stage where that all took place. And according to journalist Chris Gardner of The Hollywood Reporter, who attended the show, Spicer had no lack of fans and attention after the Emmys. Sean Spicer getting mobbed in #Emmys lobby. Posing for pics, drinking beer, soaking up all attention after onstage appearance. Dont you just love it when lying politicians — who are so terrible at their job even Donald Trump has to fire them — become beloved, whacky celebrities? Thanks for that one, Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences.
Despite being around for more than a century, suppressors aren’t really used in crimes. In fact, it seems like the only time you see a crime committed with a suppressor, it’s where having the suppressor itself is illegal for whatever reason. They’re just not used that way very often. However, if the Hearing Protection Act passes as part of the SHARE Act, suppressors will likely become far more common. That has the hysterical tribe at The Trace worried about criminals getting their grubby little paws on them via theft. Congress could vote as soon as this week to repeal part of an 80-year-old law that has forced owners of silencers to register the devices with the federal government. Supporters of removing restrictions on silencers have dismissed the concerns of opponents by pointing out that suppressors, as they’re also known, are today rarely used in crimes. The more pertinent public safety question, however, is what could happen if many more silencers enter circulation. Even with the hurdles that silencer buyers must deal with, demand for the items is already increasing, fueled by a new generation of suppressors and some slick marketing. There are now more that 1.3 million of them registered with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, up from about 360,0 just five years ago. There’s also evidence to suggest that as silencers have gained a foothold with gun owners, some are winding up in the black market. We’ve written before that as goes the legal gun industry, so goes the criminal arsenal. Firearms and related tools like extended magazines that are initially sold legally end up in criminals’ hands in several ways: unregulated private transactions, straw purchases and, of course, theft. To be sure, theft is a legitimate concern. It’s impossible to keep things out of criminals’ hands because they’re often acquired via theft, either directly or indirectly on the black market. I’d like to applaud The Trace for at least acknowledging that criminals are unlikely to walk into a gun store and buy suppressors. Make no mistake, criminals will get their hands on suppressors via theft. Of course, criminals can make suppressors in their garage right now. All the information is on the internet for anyone and their brother to look at if they so choose. Take a look at this photo of a suppressed pistol, since handguns are the preferred weapon of the average criminal. Note that the suppressor extends well beyond the weapon. In fact, it doubles the overall length of the weapon. It makes it very, very difficult to hide a suppressed firearm. Seriously, try tucking one of those in the front of your pants sometime and see how quickly you draw. This makes suppressors very difficult to sneak into a convenience store. It’s also difficult to mill about waiting for someone to pull the gun on and rob. While criminals will, no doubt, get their hands on suppressors in the course of their career, it won’t really help them much. They’re terrible options for their line of work, and with the internet’s instructions laying the mysteries of the suppressor bare years ago, there’s no reason to fear them getting into any crooks hands. They’re likely already there, and they figure out quickly they’re useless for their purposes.
President Donald Trump renewed his attacks on the "fake" news media in a series of tweets early Saturday morning, lashing out at CNN after the network corrected a story on the Trump campaign and Russia. Trump accused CNN of making a vicious and intentional mistake and called on the network to fire those responsible, and also called for ABC reporter Brian Ross, who has been suspended, to be fired for a separate erroneous report. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is introduced during the CNN presidential debate at The Venetian Las Vegas on December 15, 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Getty Images "Fake News CNN made a vicious and purposeful mistake yesterday. They were caught red handed, just like lonely Brian Ross at ABC News (who should be immediately fired for his mistake)," Trump wrote. " Watch to see if @CNN fires those responsible, or was it just gross incompetence?" Trump continued to taunt CNN in a second tweet. " CNN’S slogan is CNN, THE MOST TRUSTED NAME IN NEWS. Everyone knows this is not true, that this could, in fact, be a fraud on the American Public. There are many outlets that are far more trusted than Fake News CNN. Their slogan should be CNN, THE LEAST TRUSTED NAME IN NEWS!" The news media has been one of Trump’s most frequent targets since he took office in January. He derides organizations that publish reports critical of him as "fake news." In July, he was accused of inciting violence against journalists after he tweeted a gif showing himself body slamming a CNN avatar. In the corrected CNN report Trump referred to, it was claimed that Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., had received a heads up email on September 4, ahead of the release by WikiLeaks of a cache of emails stolen from DNC servers, allegedly by Russian government linked hackers. CNN later corrected its report to state that Trump Jr. had in fact received the email on September 14, subsequent to their public release by WikiLeaks. The network has said it will not discipline the reporters responsible for the story, because they followed company procedure and used multiple sources to verify the claims, and does not believe they acted with malicious intent. ABC’s chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross had mistakenly reported on-air that Michael Flynn was prepared to testify that Trump had ordered him to make contact with Russian officials before the 2016 presidential election. The network later corrected the report to state that Trump had made the request as president elect, prior to taking office in January. Fox News, whose coverage Trump has praised and contrasted with CNNs, also issued a correction for a story Friday in which it was claimed that one of the women who has accused Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore of sexual assault forged his signature in a high school yearbook. At a rally in support of Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore Friday night, Trump had attacked news networks. CNN apologized just a little while ago, Trump said, referring to the error correction. You should’ve been apologizing for the last two years.
We have over 74,0 city photos not found anywhere else, graphs of the latest real estate prices and sales trends, recent home sales, a home value estimator, hundreds of thousands of maps, satellite photos, demographic data (race, income, ancestries, education, employment), geographic data, state profiles, crime data, registered sex offenders, cost of living, housing, religions, businesses, local news links based on our exclusive technology, birthplaces of famous people, political contributions, city government finances, employment, weather, natural disasters, hospitals, schools and libraries. In addition to our huge collection of data, we have also created our Top 100 City Lists and Top 101 City Lists. These lists rank cities in hundreds of categories, including income, crime, most gay couples, most cars, shortest commute, biggest houses, best educated residents and many more. We also have thousands of random city pictures submitted by our users. Should I try to be a good Editor &amp; Director?: Los Angeles, Long Beach: apartment, insurance - California (CA) Where do i live?: Orange, Burbank: affordable apartments, how much, to live - Los Angeles, California (CA) Pasadena for families?: Long Beach: sales, sublets - Los Angeles, California Thinking of Interning in LA for a few months.advice?: Los Angeles: home, school - California (CA) Need Information About West Palmdale.have Not Seen Anything Good Thus Far.help!: Los Angeles: home - California (CA) Help! My girlfriend and I are moving to hollywood area from Boston.: Los Angeles: apartment, rentals - California (CA) Carpet damage? apartment, renter, house - Los Angeles, California (CA) I am a cult survivor in L.A. Can other survivors share their experiences?: Pasadena: homes, high school - Los Angeles, California (CA) Page 2: Glendale: home, school I am a cult survivor in - Los Angeles, California (CA) Just Bought My First Home: Los Angeles, Garden Grove: house, buying, private schools - California (CA) What did L.A. used to be like?: Los Angeles, San Francisco: houses, neighborhoods, purchase - California (CA) Page 2: Los Angeles, San Francisco: apartments, vacation home, dorms Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 3: Los Angeles, San Francisco: apartment, house, tornado Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 8: Santa Ana, Moorpark: credit, movies, elementary school Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 9: Los Angeles, Ontario: live, move to, title Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 10: Ontario: moving to, food, trees Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 11: Los Angeles, San Francisco: college, deal, area Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 12: buy, to move, vacations Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 13: Big Bear Lake: vacation, land, location Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 15: Los Angeles, San Francisco: tornadoes, living, codes Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 16: San Francisco: distance, roach, winter Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 18: gas, buildings, studios Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 19: Brea: what does, pics, today Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 20: Brea: shop, rated, weather Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Page 25: vs, safety, homeless Ever worry about LA Earthquake risk? - California (CA) Demagraphics of L.A.,L.A. County,and surrounding counties: Los Angeles: Hispanic, African American - California (CA) Is this part of Cahuenga Blvd residential?: Camarillo: neighborhood, area - Los Angeles, California (CA) a school in Huntington Beach: Los Angeles, Glendale: bus, internships, train - California (CA)
credit: Notes of Aztlán In Chicano history, the women who formed a vital part of social justice movements have often been swept aside; forgotten or ignored as their male counterparts receive the bulk of the praise for their collective work. Their visibility is imperative as Chicanas continue to work in social justice, fighting the good fights within various movements. Chicana Tributes: Activist Women of the Civil Rights Movement aims to share those untold stories of the women who formed an important part of the movement. CREDIT: Chicana Diego State University Chicano Archive The book documents the experiences of 61 Chicanas from the ’60s to the present who have paved the way in the fight for human rights as educators, attorneys, activists, artists and more. Some of the women featured have passed, while others remain active. Each of their stories were written by an author of their or their loved ones’ choosing, creating beautiful pieces that bring together women for the purpose of honoring women. The project came about by the Chicano Archive Committee at San Diego State University, which works to document the people and historical events that have occurred around the Chicano movement. Committee members and co-editors Sonia Lopez and Rita Sanchez selected the women featured in Chicana Tributes to document what they believe is missing from the history books. These stories need to be told so people can know that some of the things they take for granted, a lot of people fought for, says Lopez. Most of the time, the men are the ones who are recognized. Any advancement in the Chicano community, the credit is mostly given to the men. Lopez, a longtime activist and educator, was the first person to teach a Chicana history class at San Diego State back in 1972. Back then, she found a need to address Chicana issues, and still sees the need today. There’s still not enough information on Chicanas that have contributed to history, society and the community, she says. Among the women featured are ACLU leader Norma Chavez, Laura Rodriguez, matriarch of the National Historic Landmark Chicano Park, Charlotte Hernandez Terry, the first woman to paint a mural at Chicano Park, and Delia Moreno, who along with her daughters form Trio Moreno, which played protest trio music during important events in the Chicano movement. In telling the stories of these trailblazers, Lopez says young women will have one more book they can see themselves in, which is necessary as there are few books that offer that. Especially as the women featured have overcome many struggles in their life and come out on top. It’s amazing that these women still had the courage and resilience in spite of all their hardships, Lopez says. We’re trying to teach people this is life. Part of becoming who you are is a struggle. And for us, especially, as Mexicanas on this side of the border. We chose the word ‘chicana’ to define our own identity, tell our history, tell our story and tell our roots. By reading this story people will learn, people will appreciate and feel inspired. I think young women today are looking for role models, she adds. I don’t feel that we have enough role models out there of people that are doing things or have done things to inspire, to motivate. With this book, young women can see that it’s possible to do. The groundwork has been laid by the women featured in this book. READ: This Chicana Is Taking Over The Instagram Page Of A Major Art Museum To Show Off Chicano Art Wanna share this story with friends?
An FBI agent was reportedly injured when a flash grenade detonated Wednesday in a New York City parking garage. Officials told NBCs local affiliate in New York that one person was taken to Bellevue Hospital to receive treatment for burns on his hand. The agent was handling the device when it went off, officials said. Witnesses told the New York Daily News that they called 911 after hearing a small explosion and seeing smoke coming from the back of a federal building that houses the FBI and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
President Donald Trump announced Wednesday that his administration will be taking strong action today to address what he complained are especially weak border security protections that must be addressed by Congress and the construction of a border wall. Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico &amp; Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way - they want people to pour into our country unchecked. Trump’s online post, which did not come with further details as to what steps his administration would take, came one day after he announced that he would deploy U.S. troops to guard the southern border with Mexico until his promised border wall is completed. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said later Tuesday that Trump’s plan would mobilize the National Guard, which his two immediate predecessors had also done along the U.S.-Mexico border, and also press Congress to take steps to close loopholes in the nation’s immigration laws. Sanders did not say when or how many troops Trump would mobilize or where they would be deployed. The president has been especially preoccupied with border security this week, seemingly agitated by a group of migrants, mostly from Honduras, that was making its way north through Mexico, past immigration checkpoints and military bases, en route to the U.S. Trump said Tuesday that that group had been broken up by Mexican authorities, who he said did so only after he demanded they act. More broadly, Trump has struggled to get traction in Congress for his border security priorities, namely that the border wall he promised during the 2016 campaign would be paid for by Mexico. Democrats have thus far been largely unwilling to go along with plans for the president’s wall. Trump has complained loudly about what he has called their obstructionism and has urged the Senate GOP leadership to do away with the chamber’s legislative filibuster, something Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has vowed never to do.
ISIS is "dreaming that Hillary Clinton becomes President. ISIS, their number one dream, Hillary Clinton, let her become President. Shes the one that allowed it to form, shes the one that watched it go, now they say its in 32 countries, worse than ever." A dozen interviews with ISIS extremists and a review of their social media networks by Foreign Affairs magazine found that the terrorist group has a strong preference in the 2016 election: theyd like to see Donald Trump elected, not Clinton. Fact checkers have also reviewed Trumps repeated claim that ISIS rise is directly Clintons fault and declared it to be false.
At news conference with Baltic leaders on April 3, 2018, President Trump said he will send the U.S. military to the Southwest Border. ( Photo: Screen -SPAN) (CNSNews.com) - Continuing a series of tweets on lax border security Wednesday, President Donald Trump promised quick action: "We will be taking strong action today," he promised, without getting specific. His full tweet, coming shortly after 7 a.m., read: "Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico &amp; Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way - they want people to pour into our country unchecked. Until we can have a wall and proper security, we’re going to be guarding our border with the military," he said. " We really haven’t done that before, or certainly not very much before. Since Easter Sunday, when Fox News and The Drudge Report featured news about a caravan of Central Americans making their way to the United States through Mexico, Trump has issued a dozen tweets on border security. On April 3, he tweeted: The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our Weak Laws Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. On April 2: As ridiculous as it sounds, the laws of our country do not easily allow us to send those crossing our Southern Border back where they came from. A whole big wasted procedure must take place. Mexico &amp; Canada have tough immigration laws, whereas ours are an Obama joke. ACT CONGRESS Honduras, Mexico and many other countries that the U.S. is very generous to, sends many of their people to our country through our WEAK IMMIGRATION POLICIES. Democrats allow open borders, drugs and crime! DACA is dead because the Democrats didn’t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon. Must build Wall and secure our borders with proper Border legislation. Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA.They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws! Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large Caravans of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws. Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People. Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don’t allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen! On April 1: Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch &amp; Release. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. Read More Please support CNSNews today! ( a 501c3 non-profit production of the Media Research Center) DONATE
LAS VEGAS — Warning: Videos that appear in this article may include graphic content Despite rumors, Las Vegas authorities still believe only man was responsible for killing at least 59 people and injuring 527 after he opened fire on an outdoor concert late Sunday. The gunman, identified as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, was found dead. Police believe he killed himself prior to their entry. Overall 23 guns, including a number of long rifles, were found in his room, Las Vegas Police Undersheriff Kevin McMahill told CNN. Paddock is from Mesquite, Nev., about 80 miles northeast of Las Vegas. Authorities stormed the house, which is in an upscale neighborhood, on Monday afternoon. Las Vegas police say they found 19 firearms in the house. Authorities are asking that anyone with possible photos or video from the incident call 1-800-225-5324. Police say they located 62-year-old Marilou Danley, who was initially wanted as a person of interest in this incident. Danley, who was out of the country at the time, is not believed to have been involved in the shooting. Paddocks brother Eric told reporters that Danley is his brothers girlfriend. There was no immediate word on the motive for the bloodbath. Mesquite police also searched the suspected gunmans home. Another residence in Northern Nevada is about to be searched by SWAT teams, police said. Eric Paddock, who lives in Florida, told the Orlando Sentinel: We are completely dumbfounded. They say he had no criminal past and no group affiliation. The Paddock family says the alleged shooter was a multi-millionaire real estate investor. Eric shared an image of himself with Stephen, pictured below, from 15 years ago. Some hid behind concession stands, while others crawled under parked cars. As the 22,0 fans in the crowd began to flee, witnesses reported seeing flashes of light coming from the Mandalay Bay tower high above. The shots just kept coming, and so we were going down and when we got down, there was a man that was shot right there, he was all bloody and unconscious." the gunfire never ended, it seemed like it went on and on and on," she said. Aldean took to social media to say he and his crew are safe, adding: "Tonight has been beyond horrific." He said he will travel to Las Vegas on Wednesday. The Mayor of Las Vegas Carolyn Goodman tweeted: "Pray for Las Vegas. If you were alive and went into UMC hospital last night, you are still alive," said Hutchison. UMC is the only Level I trauma center in the state of Nevada. We’re grateful for the immediate actions of our first responders." Facebook has set up a crisis response page to help people establish whether their loved ones are safe. 49 people were killed when a gunman opened fire at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in June 2016.
Louis Smith was found guilty of a breach of British Gymnastics’ Standards of Conduct Through their bullying demands for submission to their dogma they are destroying the very liberties on which our democratic society is based. A disturbing example of this trend can be seen in the case of British gymnast Louis Smith, who was punished this week by officialdom for showing insufficient reverence towards Islam. The action against him by his professional body British Gymnastics arose after a video emerged of Smith and fellow gymnast Luke Carson joking about the religion at a private wedding in a Northamptonshire hotel. In the footage which caused the furore Carson mimicked the Islamic prayer practice and shouted Allah Akbar, while Smith laughed at his antics. For this behaviour Smith has been turned into a pariah. He has received death threats from jihadists and vilification from the media. On Tuesday a disciplinary panel at British Gymnastics suspended him from competition for two months and warned him that the reprimand will stay on his record for two years. Louis Smith holds his Member of the British Empire (MBE) medal in 2012 He did not physically hurt anyone but in today’s Britain he is guilty of a thought crime by daring to indulge in religious satire. In this new climate of creeping totalitarianism any mockery of the Muslim faith, even in private, will not be tolerated. The anachronistic law against blasphemy was meant to have been swept away in 2008 but the offence has returned with a vengeance due to the accelerating Islamification of Britain. Louis Smith has effectively been treated as a blasphemer against Islam and is now forced to undergo public penitence for his sins. He was hauled up in front of ITV’s Loose Women, who had decided to appoint themselves as the guardians of the new official orthodoxy. But this goes to the heart of the problem with this case. His critics pretend that any kind of criticism of Islam is a form of racism or bigotry. But Islam is not a race, it is a belief system, and like all faiths it should be open to questioning, censure or humour. The idea that any religion, especially one as controversial as Islam, should be above debate is repugnant. Religious freedom is one of the cornerstones of our civilisation. The alternatives are absolutist theocracy and violent sectarianism, precisely the characteristics of too many Muslim societies in the Middle East and Asia. In the wake of the Louis Smith incident the Muslim Council of Britain predictably bleated about Islamophobia, arguing that British society must realise the need for people to follow their faith with dignity. The council should also recognise the need to abide by the values of our country, one of which is open discourse free from clerical tyranny. It is disgraceful that British Gymnastics, like so many other craven public authorities, is eager to do the work of the zealots. The chief executive Jennie Allen said that competitors such as Smith and Carson should use their profile to have a positive impact on sport and communities. Equally offensive are the grotesque double standards. In fact Christianity is subject to constant attacks and satire without any demands for disciplinary action. Joking about the Christian faith has long been a key ingredient of British comedy from Dave Allen to Father Ted. Nor does the state show much respect for Christian sensibilities, as highlighted by the case where a firm of devout bakers in Belfast was fined for refusing to make a cake with a political slogan in favour of gay marriage. The reason for this hypocrisy is simple: Islamic grievances and demands for special treatment come cloaked with the menace of violence. Our religion will not be mocked is a threat, not a plea. Tue, July 31, 2012 All the best pictures of British artistic gymnast Louis Smith Louis Smith with his silver medal The intimidation is real, as shown by the relentless catalogue of global slaughter against those deemed to have offended Islam. As for Smith himself, he has embarked on a tour of abject repentance, visiting a number of mosques where he claims to have discovered the true meaning behind the religion of peace.
Imagine spending your life not only in a cage but in a dark recess of someone’s basement. This was a reality for a poodle named B.B., who was rescued from a North Carolina puppy mill by animal workers with the Humane Society of the United States. When she was found last September, B.B. was tiny and had clearly been impregnated over and over again. She was very tiny, and she looked like this helpless creature, said Jessica Lauginiger, animal crimes manager at HSUS. Upon being rescued, B.B. was transported to Cabarrus Animal Hospital along with the animals. However, she captured the attention of Brenda Tortoreo, the establishment’s receptionist. Tortoreo told The Dodo: B.B. was in a corner. She was scared to death… And I said, ‘That’s the one I’m going to take home.’ Because B.B. spent her entire life in a tiny cage, she didn’t know what to make sense of freedom at first. I put B.B. down on the floor, and she kept going in circles — not running, but walking, Tortoreo said. I put her in the living room, and to go into the hallway, she would not cross that border [between rooms]. I have two granddaughters who live with me, so I would put her in one of my granddaughters’ rooms, and she was terrified of rugs. The puppy had never seen the sun, so that was new, as well. She never knew what sun was, Tortoreo explained. She didn’t know what grass was, and she was terrified of it. However, space, plenty of cuddles, and an excess of love have resulted in B.B. slowly understanding that her life before was anything but normal. She runs around the house, said Tortoreo. She’s eating like crazy — she was originally about 3 and a half pounds, but I think she’s maybe about 10 pounds now. She loves the grass now, and she loves playing with the other dogs in the backyard. About three weeks ago she started licking me — she’d never done that before, Tortoreo added. She had spent her entire life in a tiny cage, being impregnated repeatedly. She was very tiny, and she looked like this helpless creature. After being taken to Cabarrus Animal Hospital, B.B. was adopted by a receptionist named Brenda Tortoreo. B.B. was in a corner… She looked pitiful. She was scared to death… And I said, ‘That’s the one I’m going to take home.’ However, because she spent her entire life in the dark and in a tiny cage, B.B. was confused. I put B.B. down on the floor, and she kept going in circles — not running, but walking. She never knew what sun was… She didn’t know what grass was, and she was terrified of it. After receiving plenty of love and freedom, B.B. now runs around the house. Please comment below and share this news!
Attorney General Jeff Sessions warned Tuesday that sanctuary cities in the U.S. will lose millions in grant money if they do not comply with federal agents efforts to deport undocumented immigrants. Sessions issued a statement announcing new requirements for local governments that wish to receive money from a federal grant program called the "Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Programs." The rules require local governments to alert the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) at least 48 hours before releasing inmates from local jails who are wanted by DHS agents. It also requires local governments to allow DHS agents to enter local jails and interview inmates suspected of being undocumented immigrants. " So-called sanctuary policies make all of us less safe because they intentionally undermine our laws and protect illegal aliens who have committed crimes," Sessions said in his statement. " These policies also encourage illegal immigration and even human trafficking by perpetuating the lie that in certain cities, illegal aliens can live outside the law." " We must encourage these sanctuary jurisdictions to change their policies and partner with federal law enforcement to remove criminals," Sessions added. Sessions has been a fierce advocate for cracking down on illegal immigration. " These long overdue requirements will help us take down MS-13 and other violent transnational gangs, and make our country safer," he said. The new requirements will apply to cities seeking grants starting in September.
SEATTLE - The Las Vegas Metro Police Department (NVMPD) released new body camera video on Friday from its investigation into the encounter with officers and Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett. gt;&gt; See photos here frame-by-frame from when Michael Bennett was put in the back of a police car The NVMPD first gave a news conference in early September about the accusations, saying there was no evidence Bennett was detained because of his race. According to the department, officers were investigating an active shooter call — which turned out to be false — and Bennett running quickly prompted a chase. The chase ended with the controversial encounter. Scroll down below to read expanded sections on what happened. According to police, a stanchion was knocked over during a fight, which prompted reports of a shooting. As officers investigated, patrons panicked as they tried to leave the building. Video shows people screaming and scrambling to get out of the casino and others trying to hide. See video of when chaos unfolded, and scroll down to keep reading. In the body camera video, officers can be heard telling people to leave casino. Bennett was crouched down as officers approached, and then he quickly ran, and jumped over a ledge onto busy Flamingo Boulevard. Watch the video of his interaction with officers while in the back of a police car below. Bennett is panicked, asking what he did wrong, and pleading to be let go. Lombardo said that while officers had a gun in hand while putting Bennett in cuffs, it was not directed at his head. As for the claims officers said they would, "blow his ******* head off," Lombardo reports his department found no evidence of that. Read his full letter below, and scroll down to watch video of part of the encounter. They told us to get out and everybody ran. We think there was an unlawful detention and the use of excessive force, with a gun put to his head," Burris told The Associated Press. " He did nothing more or less than anyone in the crowd." have called this an incident of biased-based policing … police officers focused solely on the race of an individual … I can tell you as I stand here today I see no evidence of that, said NVMPD Undersheriff Kevin McMahill. " In fact as you may have noticed, while officers were searching the casino they were able to evacuate many patrons of all races. It’s also important for me to note to you both of the officers involved in this incident in question are of Hispanic origin," McMahill said. McMahill invited Bennett and his legal team to make a formal statement to the officers. According to McHill, after his detention, Bennett told officers that he understood the events that led to the incident. One of the officers involved in the incident did not have his body camera activated. About Bennett as an advocate Bennett is one of the 200 NFL players who didn’t participate in the national anthem over the weekend in the wake of President Donald Trump suggesting the NFL bar players from kneeling in protest. Over the last year, Bennett has been a leader of the national anthem protests started by former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick. Before President Trump’s comments on the NFL, Bennett gave this reason for his protesting: I have always held the strong conviction that protesting or standing up for justice is just simply the right thing to do. Pete Carroll supports his players and Bennett. We all can learn what we want to learn out of this, but I hope we learn about empathy."
Donald Trump could win the US election next November 8 This question is entirely rhetorical because the BBC and its crew of analysts and right-on comedians have told us already: America will be engulfed by a tidal wave of sexism, racism and xenophobia; the dollar will collapse and with it the global economy; by the end of his first week Trump will be so drunk with power that he’ll make a clumsy pass at some White House intern, miss and accidentally press the red button which triggers a nuclear war… Call me an optimistic fool but I don’t believe any of this nonsense. Not only do I think that a Donald Trump presidency would be far less disastrous than a Hillary Clinton one but I’d even suggest – albeit cautiously – that the world might become a better, safer, more prosperous place. The world could be safer if Donald Trump wins against Hillary Cliton Let me stress that Donald Trump is by no means my dream candidate for the post of the next leader of the free world. I perfectly well accept that he is a vulgar, rude, bullying, ignorant, sexist chancer who entered the presidential race on a whim and may end up getting the job only by default. But Donald Trump has at least two massive qualities in his favour. The first is that he is not Hillary, a corrupt, ailing serial fibber with a dubious track record (from the Whitewater financial scandal to Benghazi, where her negligence may have resulted in the murder of the US ambassador) and a snooty contempt for the law demonstrated most by the FBI investigation into her hidden emails. And the second is that he is not a paid up member of the Washington DC establishment. Trump, not unlike Nigel Farage, is the voice of the ordinary bloke or woman who has had just about enough of the remote, spoilt, anti-democratic political elite. Yes, America is a very different place from Britain but there are definitely echoes in the US presidential campaign of the tensions which led so many of us to vote for Brexit. While America’s rich have got richer, living standards for its working folk have remained stagnant for decades. This is at least in part because of a cosy stitch-up between the governing elite – lawyers, corporations, politicians and the overmighty US central bank the Federal Reserve – which has entrenched its own power by making it almost impossible for those lower down to climb the ladder. Adding to these financial pressures are the frustrations caused by mass illegal immigration and also by the liberal elite’s obsession with political correctness, which has led to a woefully bad state education system, an increase in Islamist terrorism and a burning sense of injustice, especially among blue-collar Americans that they can’t speak their minds and that their country is no longer their own. Mrs Clinton is a corrupt, ailing serial fibber with a dubious track record Trump’s proposed solutions – build a wall on the Mexican border to stop immigration, ban Muslims(!), protect American jobs with tariff barriers on imports, hammer the Federal Reserve, stop wasting gazillions of dollars pretending to combat climate change – may be impetuous and in some cases extreme. But the point is here at last is a politician bold enough to address the real and pressing problems that most of his contemporaries have preferred to brush under the carpet. While Obama has fiddled during his eight years as president the world has burned: the Middle East crisis has worsened; terrorism has proliferated; Russia and China have flexed their muscles; the eurozone has stagnated; the refugee problem has got out of control; and almost nothing has been done to address the underlying economic problems that led to the 2008 crash. If Hillary gets in, it will be more of the same. Trump on the other hand is a radical who might actually press the reset button. Tue, November 8, 2016 The top photos following the campaign journey of Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in the US Elections 2016 US Elections 2016 in pictures Take Russia: for the Washington establishment it’s the world’s biggest geopolitical threat with Putin being painted as the new Stalin. But Trump just isn’t interested in prolonging the Cold War, let alone provoking a Third World War. He sees Putin as a flawed man with whom he can nonetheless do business. This will appal those who just want to focus on Putin’s human rights record but may come as a relief to those who would prefer to have Russia as an awkward ally rather than as a belligerent, chippy basket case on Europe’s doorstep. Donald Trump giving the thumbs up Trump is the voice of the everyday folk in America Let’s hope this strategy works because one of the bigger worries about Trump is his view on Nato: he has even suggested – against Nato policy – that if one of its member states were attacked, America wouldn’t necessarily go to its defence. This is one of those areas where you have to hope that the wiser counsels of his advisers will prevail. That said, it would be no bad thing if Trump’s remarks about Nato members failing to pull their weight were to concentrate the minds of European governments, ours included, on the woeful neglect of our defence budgets. No one is pretending that Trump is the dream presidential candidate but then we’ve just had eight years of the dream one – or so the slavish liberal media kept telling us – and he was useless. Maybe the time has come for someone who really does want to make America great again. And if we’re lucky perhaps a little bit of that optimism will rub off on the rest of us too.
After another week of violence and mayhem, its clear Hillary Clintons controversial assessment of Trumps fans was, well, generous.
The NFL‘s position after commissioner Roger Goodell‘s news conference Wednesday was clear: The league wants its players to stand for the national anthem. However, it appears there will be no rule passed to force that issue. Goodell had a news conference at the NFL’s fall meetings that lasted about 20 minutes and almost every question was related to the anthem and player protests. Goodell’s main talking point was that the NFL also will listen to its players about social issues and wants to be a part of the solution. Everyone was focused on what will happen at NFL games with the national anthem, which has become the most divisive issue among fans that the league has seen in a long time. We believe everyone should stand for the anthem, Goodell said. That’s an important part of our policy, it’s also an important part of our game that we all take great pride in. It’s also important for us to honor our flag and our country and we think our fans expect us to do that. The best outcome for the NFL would be for the players to stop protesting without the league making a rule change. Goodell sounded like the league hopes that if it keeps working with its players to help with their issues, with racial equality and law enforcement reform, then perhaps the protests will end. The fact is, we have about a half a dozen players that are protesting, Goodell said. We hope and we’re going to continue to work to try to put that at zero. But we want to make sure we’re understanding what the players are talking about, and that’s complex. The number Goodell cited seems low, considering seven San Francisco 49ers players alone took a knee for last Sunday’s anthem, and as many as 30 49ers players were taking a knee two weeks ago. But it appeared he wanted to make it a point that it’s not as widespread of an issue as it is being made out to be. Goodell was asked why the NFL wouldn’t make it a rule to stand. New York Giants owner John Mara told the Daily News that the league has no plans to make a rule about standing for the anthem. We believe our players should stand for the national anthem. That’s an important part of our game and our moments, and we believe in that, Goodell said. I think we also have to keep focus on this: We have about six or seven players involved in this protest at this point. This is something, what we’ve tried to do is we’ve tried to deal with the underlying issue and understand what it is they’re protesting and try to address that matter. The important thing for us is to be able to do that and take that opportunity to make real differences in our community. That is really what’s ultimately going to be the important aspect for us long term. I understand the way our fans feel about this issue, and we feel the same way about the importance of our flag, the importance of patriotism, and I believe our players feel that way. The will state to you and they have stated to everyone publicly, they’re not doing this in any way to be disrespectful to the flag, but they also understand how it’s being interpreted. Goodell was also asked about the latest tweet from President Donald Trump about the NFL. The NFL has decided that it will not force players to stand for the playing of our National Anthem. Goodell said he has not talked to Trump about the anthem issue. We respect our country, respect our flag, respect our national anthem, Goodell said. I think you look at our clubs and what they do on a daily basis, look at our players and what they do and how they participate in that, we all feel very strongly about our country and our pride.
Could Trumps Missing Signature Force Him to Be Deposed? Diocese buys $2.3M home for retiring bishop. Shocking trend: Pet owners abuse own animals to get drugs. Silicon Valley Takes Another Step Toward Autonomous Flying. Missouri first state to regulate use of word meat. Whiteouts, high winds, dust storms cause festival to stop entry. How to be human: The man who was raised by wolves. After driving ban ends, women taste thrill of speed. McCain Death, Florida Shooting Cast Shadows. Global Car Sales Hit Speed Bump After Decade of Growth. Inside world of DARK TOURISM with trips to nuke zones. FBI Pursuing Con Queen Impersonating Top Hollywood Execs. Czech PM calls for no illegals in Europe. Tourists shocked as migrants unload on beach. TROUBLES: BUZZFEED asks audience for donations. Pittsburgh becomes largest city WITHOUT daily print newspaper. Crippling costs of war reporting and investigative journalism. Leading journalists join call for EU copyright reform. THIEL: President Only Republican Who Isnt Zombie. CASHIN: Stock market betting on Pence should legal issues take dark turn. Summer Snow Blankets Montana, Idaho, Wyoming. Farmers Almanac predicts teeth-chattering winter. Global-Warming Advocates Pressure Media to Silence Skeptics. SECESSION: Redstone Civil War Heats Up Again As Daughter Prepares To Take Control. Deaths from drugs, alcohol, suicide now outpace diabetes. Had been hospitalized for mental illness. Fate of 22 grizzly bears up to judges decision. Teen Suits Up As Varsity Football Teams First Female Player. Massive fish die-off creates smelly mess in Malibu. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE AP TOP AP RADIO BLOOMBERG DEUTSCHE PRESSE-AGENTUR INDO-ASIAN NEWS SERVICE INTERFAX ITAR-TASS KYODO MCCLATCHY [DC] PRAVDA PRESS TRUST INDIA PR NEWSWIRE REUTERS REUTERS POLITICS REUTERS WORLD XINHUA UPI YONHAP GOOGLE NEWS SEARCH DRUDGE RECENT DRUDGE HEADLINES.
President Donald Trump is calling on NFL players once again to stand during the national anthem. He tweeted Saturday that players should stand on Sunday, saying they should respect the U.S. flag and country. More than 200 players either knelt or used other means as expressions of unity last weekend. NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said such actions are not a protest against the anthem or the flag. The players knelt last weekend in response to social injustice. Full teams, along with some team owners, linked arms either before or during the anthem. Three teams — Pittsburgh, Seattle and Tennessee — did not take the field until after the anthem. Very important that NFL players STAND tomorrow, and always, for the playing of our National Anthem. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017 Trump had earlier called on NFL owners to fire players who didnt stand for the anthem. Previously, Trump also said National Football League team owners are "afraid of their players." Earlier this week, he called for action against those who kneel during the national anthem to protest racial injustice. Trump said he began criticizing the players because he has "so many friends that are owners." He added: "I think they are afraid of their players, if you want to know the truth, and I think its disgraceful." The president spoke in an interview that aired Thursday on "Fox and Friends." NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart called the presidents statements "inaccurate." " I believe there was a statement our owners are afraid of our players and owners requested intervention by political leaders to kick this off," Lockhart said. " Trump has spent days attacking players who kneel during the anthem. He insists the NFL should require players to stand. Responding to Trump, hundreds more players have been sitting, kneeling, locking arms or remaining in locker rooms. If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect.— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017 .our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017 "The owners are clearly united in a sense that the attacks on the game, on the NFL, on the players were unfair and unfounded, and that there was unity among the group," Lockhart said, noting that about two-thirds of the 32 team owners were at league headquarters this week for committee meetings. " that the issues are being obscured and distorted by people with political agendas," Lockhart said. " I think they made it clear they support our players, but also support our country, the national anthem, the flag—all of the things some have suggested we dont." The Associated Press contributed to this report.
It will be only a matter of days before the Democratic Party press in America starts taking up the suggestion of Chancellor Merkel of Germany that we seek with North Korea a pact of appeasement like the one the Obama administration engineered with the ayatollahs at Iran. I could imagine such a format being used to end the North Korea conflict, Frau Merkel told the Frankfurter Allgemeine. Were Germany asked to participate, the chancellor warned, she would say yes immediately. This is a devilish demarche, coming, as it does, at a time when the American administration is seeking to demonstrate its resolve against North Korea’s atomic bomb program. Frau Merkel’s interview is calculated to short-circuit any refusal on President Trump’s part to certify Tehran’s compliance with the Obama-Khomeini pact. It is dog-whistling to the New York Times, which is no doubt scrambling to get aboard the Merkel appeasement. Let’s see if it can bring aboard Mr. Trump’s newest pal, Senator Schumer. New York’s senior senator, now the minority leader, played a double role in the drama on the Iran appeasement. Yet he refused to take a leading role in the fight against it, even when opponents sought to have have the pact itself put to a proper vote. That was all the more disappointing because it was clear that if the pact had been put to the Senate it would have been rejected. This point is acknowledged even by the Times, which concedes that the Iran pact was opposed in the Congress overwhelmingly. The Gray Lady suggests that many critics now see its value, though its editorial fails to name any such critics. Germany, of course, never gave a fig about what the Congress thought of the pact. The Obama administration took the unratified deal straight to the United Nations, where Ambassador Power voted against the Congress of her own country. It’s presumptuous of some people to suspect that France, Russia, China, Germany, Britain ought to do what the Congress tells them to do, Secretary of State Kerry snickered. President Putin must have loved that line. Frau Merkel, in any event, isn’t waiting for any formal nod in respect of what President Trump wants to do about the Iran deal — or about North Korea. She’s prepared to leap right into a negotiated settlement with Pyongyang that would, if Iran is any guide, leave its communist camarilla not only entrenched but richer to boot. This is a moment for President Trump to remember the 30 American states that lofted him to office. The platform on which he stood described the Iran deal as a personal agreement between President Obama and his negotiating partners. It described it as non-binding on the next president. Mr. Trump himself promised to rip up the agreement. That he has grounds to do so was underscored last week at Washington by his envoy at the United Nations, Governor Haley. She is a better tribune of American interests than Chancellor Merkel. receive the latest by email: subscribe to the new york suns free mailing list
Some time back it was reported that an alert Maryland police officer saw an Islamic woman in an SUV videotaping a bridge’s support structures. An FBI raid on Elbarasse’s home unearthed a trove of Islamic doctrinal books and key Muslim Brotherhood documents—which became evidence in the largest terrorism-financing trial in U.S. history. Islam’s books are the real bomb, Muslim reformer Islam al-Behery said. Its ideology is its blueprint for world domination. A document from the Elbarasse raid outlines the Muslim Brotherhood’s phased plan to destroy Western civilization from within: Phase One: Secret establishment of leadership. Phase Two: Gradual public profile by infiltrating government, the judiciary, finance, intelligence, police, prisons, military, education and religious institutions. Phase Three: Escalation prior to conflict and confrontation with rulers using mass media. Phase Four: Publically confront the government using political pressure. Weapons training domestically and overseas in anticipation of zero-hour. Phase Five: Seize power to establish the Islamic state. Sharia is based on the Quran and other Islamic writings. Moderates see it a spiritual struggle, or outwardly observe it for fear of reprisal. But for radicals, sharia is the legal and political foundation for jihad and global rule, a power play to force Islam on the world. No other laws or governments may coexist with sharia. The Quran requires all Muslims to wage jihad (holy war) against infidels (non-Muslims). Jihad calls for multiple stages and platforms—violent and pre-violent. An Elbarasse memorandum calls the pre-violent settlement process in North America civilization jihad to destroy the Western way of life. In jihad’s final, violent stage, non-Muslims convert or die. Though jihad is obvious in North America and Europe, it’s not limited to the West. The phased plan is a template for radical Muslim subjugation. Indonesia, a secular, mostly moderate Muslim-majority democracy, is a case in point. Its motto, Unity in Diversity reflects its six religions and 300 ethnicities. Christian incumbent Basuki Tjahaja Ahok Purnama lost a recent governor’s race when radical Islamists told Muslim voters that Islam forbids voting for Christians. Charged with blasphemy, he lost the election and was sentenced to jail. You Wont Believe Where It Was Stashed Ahok’s conviction—accompanied by violent rallies and death threats, shows the chilling influence on pluralism by hardline Islamism that the government and judiciary are reluctant to oppose, said Time reporter Nicola Smith. In Indonesia, radical Islamists have advanced their plan for global dominance to Phase Four. Then there’s Iran, whose visceral anti-Semitism and poisonous ideology infuses jihad and sharia, but with a twist. The late Ayatollah Khomeini, and his successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, sidestepped Shi’a believe that the Mahdi (12th Imam), a quasi-messianic figure, must return before waging jihad and adopted an ideology promoting a senior Shiite cleric to theocratic political power over Shiites worldwide. Khomeini offered himself as successor to the 12 Imams, thus inheriting the mantle of leadership directly from Muhammad, said expert Clare Lopez. Reprinted with author’s permission from Jerusalem Post
With the end of his second term on the horizon, President Obama spoke to 60 Minutes this week, reflecting on his achievements -- and on the problems not yet solved. At the top of that list is the protracted crisis in Syria, where more than 250,0 people have died, according to UN reports, and some 12 million have been forced from their homes. Correspondent Steve Kroft asks President Obama about the lack of progress in Syria, but Obama says improvement takes time. " In a situation that is as volatile and with as many players as there are inside of Syria, there arent any silver bullets," he says. One of those players, Kroft points out, is Russia, which recently stepped up airstrikes and naval bombardments in support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. President Putin "is challenging your leadership, Mr. President," Kroft says. Steve, Ive got to tell you, if you think that running your economy into the ground and having to send troops in in order to prop up your only ally, is leadership, then weve got a different definition of leadership," he says. Kroft and Obama discuss domestic issues as well, including gun violence. At a press conference after last weeks mass shooting in Roseburg, Oregon, Obama urged the country to do more to prevent these tragedies. In the unaired clip below, Kroft asks the president if he can personally make a difference. Obama acknowledges that his options are limited. " We are running out of administrative actions that could really move the needle in reducing gun violence in this country," he says. At the same time, he adds, "it is not realistic to think that this Congress will pass any common sense gun safety legislation." But that doesnt mean a public outcry cant effect change, Obama says. " The most important thing I can do right now is just to keep on lifting up the issue and saying, It doesnt have to be this way," he tells Kroft. " The two-part interview also touches on the 2016 presidential race, and the candidates on both sides of the aisle. Kroft asks the president what he thinks of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump. " He is, you know, the classic reality TV character," Obama says. " At these early stages, its not surprising that hes gotten a lot of attention." As to whether that attention will evaporate, the president declines to speculate. " Ill leave it up to the pundits to make that determination," Obama says. " I dont think hell end up being president of the United States." At different moments in the interview, the president turns reflective, taking stock of his time in office and eyeing the year ahead. In the unaired clip below, he tells Kroft that, at this point, hes learned to trust his instincts. " The nice thing about being a veteran in anything is your fear kind of goes away," he says. " Theres no doubt Im better at this job now than I was when I started." Obama says he feels a mixture of satisfaction at what hes accomplished and a desire to still do more. " But by the time Im finished, I think it will be time for me to go," he says, adding that new blood in the White House is essential for a healthy democracy. " Do you think if you ran again, could run again, and did run again, you would be elected?" Yes," says Obama, without missing a beat.
In fourteen hundred and ninety two, Columbus sailed the ocean blue…. There are fifty four communities named after the explorer in the United States, including the District of Columbia. A federal holiday, Columbus Day, is celebrated every second Monday in October. That had been well-known for more than a millennium in Columbus’ time. In fact, scholars had a pretty good idea of what the circumference of the Earth was, which was part of the dissent against Columbus making his trip- Columbus thought Asia was bigger than it is and the world much smaller, leading one of the scholars commissioned by the monarchy to investigate the plausibility of Columbus’ journey succeeding to say, it was impossible to any educated person). That he came to America in the name of exploration. Quite simply, most of these facts are unequivocally false or half-truths. What he mostly did, though, was enslave and rape the natives he met, sold girls (as young as nine by his own account) into prostitution, and committed numerous acts so heinous that he was forcibly removed from power and sent back to Spain in chains. In August 1492, Columbus departed Spain with three ships – the Santa Maria, the Pinta, and the Santa Clara (nicknamed the Nina). After two months on the high seas, land was spotted. Upon landing on the island, which he would call San Salvador (present-day Bahamas), Columbus immediately went to work finding gold and enslaving the native populations. with fifty men we could subjugate them all and make them do whatever we want. When you ask for something they have, they never say no. To the contrary, they offer to share with anyone. This report earned him financing for a second voyage, this time with 13 ships and twelve hundred men. While he never ended up filling up these ships with gold, he filled them with another currency and one that would have a horrendous effect on the world going forward – slaves. Of those 1500, he picked 500 to be shipped back to Spain as slaves (about two hundred died on the journey back), starting the transatlantic slave trade. The rest were forced to find what little gold existed in the region. According to noted historian Howard Zinn, anyone over 14 had to meet a gold quota. If they didn’t find enough gold, they would have their hands cut off. Many natives died and their numbers dwindled. In the 15th century, modern historians believe there were about 300,0 Arawaks. The way Columbus and his men treated the women and children of these populations was even worse. Michele wrote that, While I was in the boat I captured a very beautiful Carib woman, whom the said Lord Admiral [Columbus] gave to me, and with whom, having taken her into my cabin, she being naked according to their custom, I conceived desire to take pleasure. I wanted to put my desire into execution but she did not want it and treated me with her finger nails in such a manner that I wished I had never begun. But seeing that (to tell you the end of it all), I took a rope and thrashed her well, for which she raised such unheard of screams that you would not have believed your ears. After the trip was done, her tongue was cut out by the order of Columbus’ brother, Bartolomé, who Columbus then congratulated for successfully defending the family’s honor. In it, he described the collapse of the non-European population. He even reported that some of the women drowned their babies from sheer desperation. For more on this, see: Why Native Americans Didn’t Wipe Out Europeans With Diseases Expand for References
As seen on Fox &amp; Friends Former FBI Asst. Director: Original Clinton Probe Not a Real Investigation Fmr CNN Executive Reacts to Donna Brazile-Hillary Debate Question Leak On "Fox &amp; Friends" this morning, Lt. reacted to the "unbelievable tragedy" of two Iowa police officers being gunned down in their squad cars. " The assault on our law enforcement professionals in this country is out of control," Flynn said. He said that the leadership in our country needs to come out and say, "This has got to end." Flynn, a Donald Trump supporter, said that the law enforcement community is reaching out to the Republican presidential nominee because hes willing to speak up on their behalf. " This is just another tragedy, another example of the lack of safety that we have in our streets and in our country for these police officers." What Did Clinton Campaign Chair Mean By Dump Emails Before Subpoena? Krauthammer: Clinton Drowning in Cumulative Effect of WikiLeaks, FBI Probe Gutfeld on Clinton Sexism: Hillary Looks Out for Only Herself
Mike Vanderjagts brief run as a middle-school soccer coach is on the ropes. The former Indianapolis Colts kicker has been suspended from that role after a March incident in which Vanderjagt allegedly grabbed a student by the throat at Charter Middle School in Marco Island, Fla. (Darron Press) The Naples Daily News reported Thursday that Vanderjagt, a school parent, was investigated by police for attacking a student who taunted him with cries of "wide left, wide left" through a rolled-up piece of poster board doubling as megaphone. Flashback: Vanderjagt missed a game-changing field goal attempt at the end of the Colts AFC Divisional playoff loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers in January 2006. According to police, Vanderjagt was crossing the schools parking lot when he heard the taunts. The student told authorities the former kicker "walked up to him, grabbed him by the throat and started cursing at him." Vanderjagt told police he simply placed his hand on the childs shoulder. He claimed a mouthy band of students had been issuing the insults for months. Vanderjagt admitted growing tired of the taunts. Police went so far as to file the incident with the State Attorneys office, which ruled that no charges would be issued against Vanderjagt. He has apologized to the student and currently awaits word from the schools principal about his coaching future. In the meantime, this former NFL kicker is running a pizza joint on Marco Island.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (KCRA) — California is now one step closer to becoming sanctuary state. The Assembly Judiciary Committee approved Senate Bill 54 on Wednesday along party lines -- with eight Democrats voting in favor and three Republicans opposed. Under the proposed bill, ICE agents would be prohibited from entering county jails unless they have a warrant.
Much of the ugliness we see on the Left today is embodied in groups like Black Lives Matter and ANTIFA. Both groups think they are oppressed, both are obsessed with identity politics, and both are steeped in Marxist ideologies. You’d think that they would get along just fine but that’s not the case. People who have their identities wrapped up in victimhood are narcissistic by nature. They want the spotlight at all times, and can’t stand to see someone else hog it. So it was probably just a matter of time before these two groups clashed. Odd Trick To "Fix" Sagging Skin In Seconds (Try This Tonight)
Judge Tosses Out Cop’s Case Against Black Lives Matter Remember when we told you how an injured officer sued the Black Lives Matter movement and DeRay McKesson after getting shot by Gavin Long in the infamous July 17, 2016 attack in Dallas? The cop, who only goes by John Doe Smith, was shot in the head and through the intestine during the attack that claimed two police lives and wounded several others. He blamed Black Lives Matter for their presence on the scene inciting violence to cause Gavin to snipe the cops, and sought damages to the tune of $75,0 for his surgery bills. The thing is… Black Lives Matter is a movement, not a specified group of people or a business. So there’s really no one in particular to sue. According to TMZ, the judge ultimately dismissed the case due to the fact that BLM is a social movement, and McKesson as an individual was only using his first amendment right by appearing at the protest — not inciting anyone to commit any acts of violence. It’s truly unfortunate what happened to his officer, but you can’t blame the peaceful protestors on the scene exercising their rights for the reckless actions of one disturbed individual.
Sex-trafficking is happening in nearly every city and in every state in the U.S. In an all-new Crime Watch Daily in-depth investigation, we take you inside the epidemic that has exploded in recent years. Thats hundreds of thousands of children every day, and thats only the homeless and runaway population," said Mazzio. HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN LOS ANGELES Crime Watch Daily rode along with a group of undercover deputies from the L.A. County Sheriffs Department as they busted men looking to hook up with underage girls. TRAFFICKING IN HOUSTON In Houston, Texas, one woman is tackling the problem from a very different angle. Bender become a victim for nearly six years, traded between three different traffickers in all. She says it was only after police busted her trafficker for tax evasion that she was able to finally break free. But it would take years to get her life back on track. These are not just women being brought in from other countries. Were talking about teens, or even younger, being recruited from middle schools and high schools in just about every city in America. Crime Watch Daily interviews a young woman lured into the sex-trade world and how its now landed her in prison doing serious time. Lizette Deluna ran from abuse at home into the arms of a sex-trafficker. Now shes in prison in Texas, convicted of trafficking herself. She share her journey exclusively with Crime Watch Daily. TRAFFICKING IN DEKALB COUNTY Crime Watch Daily teams up with law enforcement agencies all over the country who are cracking down on the illegal sex trade business. On the streets of Georgia, we encountered an alleged pimp that was more than happy to talk to us. Operating in more than 900 cities worldwide, the online classifieds website commands, by some estimates, more than 80 percent of all online sex ad revenues. For their part, Backpage claims no responsibility for what they call third-party content. Not long ago, Backpage CEO Carl Ferrer, along with former owners Michael Lacey and James Larkin were actually brought up on pimping charges by former California Attorney General and current U.S. Senator Kamala Harris. They ignored our questions, but considering the serious nature of the charges, we had to keep trying. Is freedom of speech more important than protecting children being forced into prostitution? Is there some type of moral responsibility that technology companies and CEOs have? No comment from the men or their attorneys. But because its prostitution, its Pretty Woman, its the victimless crime, its the worlds oldest profession, you know what -- not that big of a deal." Can awareness alone help stop the problem? How far will one dad go to rescue his girl from the clutches of a criminal? " These are the things brad smith thought to teach his daughter. GenerateHope provides a safe place for survivors of sex trafficking to be restored through long-term housing, healing, psychotherapy and education. Help fight trafficking by uploading photos of your hotel room. These photos will be used to determine where perpetrators of sex trafficking are committing their crimes. # HumanTrafficking #SexTrafficking #SexCrimes #SexualAssault #Prostitution #Rape
President Donald Trumps nominee for federal judge in Alabama was just approved by every Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee — even though he was unanimously rated "not qualified" by the American Bar Association. Brett J. Talley is 36 years old, has only practiced law for three years and made a series of partisan comments on his blog in 2016 that would normally be considered unbecoming of a judge, like referring to the Democratic presidential candidate as "Hillary Rotten Clinton," according to the Los Angeles Times. Although Talley does have degrees from the University of Alabama and Harvard Law School and clerked for two federal judges, he has never argued a motion, making it nearly unprecedented for him to be considered as a candidate for a lifetime appointment. One of Talleys most controversial statements was a blog post in which he claimed that President Barack Obama was "about to launch the greatest attack on our constitutional freedoms in our lifetime." He added, "The object of that war is to make guns illegal, in all forms." After a commenter wrote that Americans would "resort to arms when our other rights — of speech, press, assembly, representative government — fail to yield the desired results," Talley said he agreed with him. When asked about these statements by the Senate Judiciary Committee, Talley said he was merely "trying to generate discussion. I wanted people to be able to use my blog to discuss issues, to come together and find common ground." The president has directly praised Talley as being an "untold story" that "nobody wants to talk about." " When you think of it, Mitch [McConnell] and I were saying, that has consequences 40 years out, depending on the age of the judge," Trump said in October. " One other factor that may have contributed to Talleys nomination: He was mentored by Sen. Luther Strange of Alabama and worked in the Justice Department office that chooses judicial nominees. Talley isnt the only Trump judicial nominee who has been the subject of raised questions. Charles Goodwin, who was nominated to the federal bench in Oklahoma, was the first judicial nominee since 2006 to receive a "not qualified" label from the American Bar Association. Jeff Mateer, who was nominated to the federal bench in Texas, aroused controversy by referring to transgender children as proof of "Satan’s plan" and denounced the Supreme Court decision legalizing gay marriage as "disgusting." John Bush, who was confirmed to the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, wrote a blog post arguing that slavery and abortion were the "two greatest tragedies in our country."
Presidential hopeful Donald Trump said he supports creating a mandatory database to track Muslims in the United States. Absolutely, Trump, 69, told NBC News between campaign events on Thursday in Newton, Iowa. There should be a lot of systems, beyond databases. When asked by the reporter whether Muslims would be legally obligated to register in the database, the business mogul responded: They have to be. He said that the country’s Muslims would register for the database at different places, adding, It’s all about management. The comments come less than a week after terrorists wreaked havoc on the French capital, taking the lives of at least 129 people and injuring more than 300 others in a series of coordinated attacks. The attacks have prompted calls for new restrictions on accepting Syrian refugees. On Thursday, the House passed a bill to drastically tighten screening procedures on Syrian refugees, requiring key national security agencies to determine whether each Iraqi and Syrian refugee poses a threat, CNN reports. The White House vowed that President Barack Obama would veto the bill. Trump’s recent comments stem from an earlier interview with Yahoo News on Thursday in which he did not reject the idea of requiring Muslims in the U.S. to register into a database or present a special ID that noted their religion. We’re going to have to look at a lot of things very closely, the 69-year-old said. We’re going to have to look at the mosques. The Council on American-Islamic Relations criticized the candidate for the comments in a statement on Thursday, and a council spokesman told NBC, We’re kind of at a loss for words, adding that the database plan is comparable to that of prewar Nazi Germany. However, when a reporter asked Trump about the difference between Muslim databases and requiring Jews to register in Nazi Germany, Trump replied, You tell me. He did not answer when asked what consequences would be implemented for Muslims who refused to register. He later denied responding to questions regarding a potential Muslim database at all, adding that he didn’t know where you heard that. Trump isn’t the only Republican to come under fire regarding comments made after the Paris attacks. Ben Carson is facing criticism for comparing blocking Syrian refugees from entering the U.S. to protecting a child from a rabid dog. Meanwhile, GOP hopeful Ted Cruz has said that Obama is endangering the safety of Americans by allowing Syrian Muslim refugees to enter the U.S. However, he says, America should provide a safe haven for Christian refugees. He added that the U.S. would need to vet anyone coming in, a practice the White House called a religious test, CNN reports.
Sebastian Gorka, who served seven months as deputy assistant to President Trump, alongside former chief strategist Steve Bannon, sat down with Circa to talk about his time in the White House, the "deep state," the future of Trumps Make America Great Again agenda and the Washington, D.C. "bureaucratic swamp." Sara Carter: Theres a lot of supporters who are concerned now that with the departure of both you and Mr. Steve Bannon, that the MAGA (Make America Great Again) agenda is gone. The fact that Steve left and then a week later I resigned, I always tell people "relax." Whether or not the presidents agenda succeeds isnt a function of where I sit or where Steve has an office. Its like that scene from "Star Wars" when Ben Kenobi gets slain by Darth Vader. I will be more powerful than you can ever imagine. Steve Bannon is now the most powerful man outside of the Oval Office in America. Its like that scene from Star Wars when Ben Kenobi gets slain by Darth Vader." Im not gonna give away any inside baseball, but let me give you an example. When I was deputy assistant to the president, Id walk in and out of the Oval Office and Id regularly see people like Corey Lewandowski, Id see Dave Bossie in the Oval [Office] with the President. Sara Carter: In your resignation letter you state that there are people ascendant within the White House that do not support the Presidents MAGA agenda? And if you remember, there was a film, a great John Milius film called "Red Dawn" in the 80s about the Soviet Cuban invasion of America and the resistance that American patriots put up to it. He was just accidentally the GOPs candidate. Its like the wolverines from Red Dawn, a scrappy bunch of insurgents defeated the mighty empire that is the swamp." Thats why Steve is doing all kinds of things right now. Its important to know, apart from [Robert] Mueller -- hes a holdover, ignore him -- every single, high-ranking or, or less than high-ranking firing in the last eight months was not driven by the president. The Alabama race tells you everything you need to know. And now hes going to get rid of some people who arent on message and have nothing to do with the original agenda. Sara Carter: Would one of those people happen to be Secretary of State [Rex] Tillerson? Sebastian Gorka: The President reached out to me the day after I resigned. So, Im not gonna talk about individuals just yet, but Ill talk about principles and the fact is, um, Tucker Carlson had a segment after Steve left the White House that I think is crucial to understanding the reality of whats going on in the West Wing. He would not be at home in a White House under Hillary Clinton." I love conspiracy theories but only as entertainment. Conspiracy theories kill critical thought. And a pattern developed in these meetings which is really disturbing and explains the permanent state. The professional bureaucratic class in America that believes that they know better than the President elected by the people of America to run this country." And it would be up to me, the guy with the funny accent, after 90 minutes to say, "Uh, hey guys. Did you hear what the President said about NATO in Warsaw?" A GS14, a GS15 whos been at State Department or CIA for 20 years and thinks, "Oh, I, Ive been doing this for so long. I dont care what the president says about Qatar, we need to do this.
I don’t remember where I heard this, perhaps somewhere in the small town of Blacksburg, Virginia, but the context was definitely political. The IRS is always out to get our money – of course the government hasn’t forgotten about us, right? But the more I thought about it, the more I realized the meaning behind that statement. Since the founding days of the United States, a problem has always been the power balance between small states and big states. Presently, this has evolved into the local balance between rural areas and urban areas. I remember hearing in government class how just a dozen or so of the largest cities in the United States could swing the popular vote to one political party and realizing just how valuable the electoral college is to modern politics. There’s no simple alternative to balancing out protecting the interests of the rural minority and forwarding those of the urban majority. From the U.S. Census: Rural areas cover 97 percent of the nation’s land area but contain 19.3 percent of the population. For many in southwestern Virginia, it seems that politicians are always subverting rural interests in favor of the dense, northern urban areas. Even the President and many other conservatives use this idea of rural areas being left out to win votes. From his always-rambunctious Twitter account, Trump proclaimed: The Democrats in the Southwest part of Virginia have been abandoned by their Party. Republican Ed Gillespie will never let you down! In a time of great change and technology around the globe, sometimes it can feel as if rural areas are being left behind. Given this context, I’d like to quickly transition to a discussion about the political frustrations surrounding the Confederate flag. The Civil War was definitely fought over slavery, but does that make the Confederate flag racist? Growing up, Confederate flags were never really made out to be a big deal. I remember thinking nothing of the raised Confederate flags on the way to swim meets and camps. I remember the public outcry throughout the region when the school sent out an announcement banning Confederate attire. Even recently, right before I came to Stanford, I was driving home one night and pulled up next to a beat-up pickup truck flying two large Confederate flags at a traffic light. It felt pretty normal, albeit a little strange especially because of the earlier South Carolina flag controversy and the happenings in Charlottesville. This is an issue because first off, no one likes being called a villain, and secondly, to many of these people – who have seen crumbling infrastructure, a stagnating economy and skyrocketing health care premiums (one of my older teachers always complained about his wife’s new insurance bill under Obamacare) – are we really that progressive? And how high should working out our flag issues be on our priorities list? General health is deteriorating every year as lung cancer and obesity set in. The fact that a colored piece of cloth is generating the most media coverage instead of a terrible healthcare crisis here is a sort of a slap in the face to the coal miner with permanent nerve damage or the diabetic who can’t access insulin. We tend to separate the world into us and the other, but we fail to realize that the other may also be struggling to come to grips with the world too. There are many parts of the country that need work. Racism is a huge problem that we need to solve as soon as possible. Denigrating an important bloc of people for the sake of making a point will only divide the nation even more. If we are to move forward and be progressive, we need to set aside distractions, unify in our actions and put our attention to the big picture. Contact Tiger Sun at tgsun ‘at’ stanford.edu.
Should statues and memorials of Confederate soldiers and officers remain standing, or should they be removed. Those in favor of removing the statues say the statues represent racism. Those who want the statues to remain complain that removing the statues would be an attempt to get rid of history. Should cities and states get rid of Confederate statues and memorials?
Depraved ISIS thugs are little more than serial rapists who claim sex assault is a byproduct of implementing teachings of the Qur’an. The grisly details are laid out in a new report by Nikita Malik called,  Trafficking Terror: How Modern Slavery and Sexual Violence Fund Terrorism. In it, a Yazidi survivor describes how ISIS henchman would line up young girls against walls before groping their chests. If they had breasts, they could be raped; if not, they would wait three months to check again, Victim 1 said, according to an interview cited in the report. The girls – many of them minors – were raped together in rooms as children looked on, she said after finally eluding ISIS’ grip. Victim 1 also described how she was raped by six ISIS guards one night after attempting to flee. She was raped in every place possible," the report reads. " She was forced to do things that were disgusting to her and they kept her without clothes in this room so that anybody could come at any time and rape her. Yazidi women were told by brainwashed ISIS brides that they needed to be raped to become fully Muslim, according to the report. They were often sold, but lost monetary value the more times they were purchased by men in Iraq and Syria. The report also describes how sexual depravity continues to act as a pull factor for prospective terrorists Sexual slavery serves as an incentive for new recruits and foreign fighters, with the promise of wives and sex slaves. The Henry Jackson Society reports human trafficking brought Islamic terrorist groups upwards of $30 million last year. It’s believed ISIS could turn to kidnapping and sex slavery as a means to sustain itself as its shrinking caliphate continues to crumble.
A note to Steve Bannon: No matter what your beliefs are, the most dangerous thing you can do is cross Donald Trump. The fallout against the former White House political strategist and Trump confidant is continuing this week, in the wake of his comments appearing in Michael Wolffs tell-all book, "Fire and Fury," and as his political foes are celebrating his perceived demise and his political friends are starting to distance themselves from him. One of Bannons strongest allies — the Mercer family, which is funding Breitbart — issued a stinging rebuke on Thursday, but limited the scope of their attack to what Bannon said about the president. " I support President Trump and the platform upon which he was elected," Rebekah Mercer told the Washington Post. " My family and I have not communicated with Steve Bannon in many months and have provided no financial support to his political agenda, nor do we support his recent actions and statements." And CBS reported Friday that Mercer "cut all ties" with Bannon because thats what Trump wanted her to do. . @CBSNews confirms Steve Bannons longtime benefactor Rebekah Mercer cut *all ties* with him at the request of White House officials in the aftermath of #FireAndFury. pic.twitter.com/8eICjpp6Qw — ryan kadro (@RyanKadro) January 5, 2018 But Mercer is continuing to finance Breitbart, which has not only been Bannons political agenda, its been his political essence. Bannon made Roy Moore his candidate in the Alabama special election. When Moores major flaws were exposed, Bannon dispatched Breitbarts staffers to attack the women who accused Moore of trying to date them when they were teenagers. After the election, Breitbarts editor admitted that they were acting as political operatives in their decision to cover the election. So while Breitbarts funders are wondering whether or not to cut ties with Steve Bannon, its important to realize that Bannons legacy will certainly live on.
Hillary Clinton greets the crowd at a campaign event in Des Moines on Friday. Donald Trump exulted about the discovery of new emails from Hillary Clinton’s time as secretary of state. They could also be pleas from Clinton that Huma Abedin fetch her a skinny latte from Starbucks. And the horrifying thing is that the F.B.I. director, James Comey, didn’t seem to know, either, even as he disclosed their existence to the world. This entire election is being conducted in the key of hysteria, and Comey just found a way to amplify that ugly music. Now she limps to the finish line when she should be hitting full stride. But Trump is as much of a part and player in this latest chapter of the email saga, because of the one-syllable grenade that he keeps lobbing at the body politic, his furious mantra over these final weeks. Many Americans have come to believe that. Many others are rightly determined to prove to that group how wrong they are, or at least not to add accelerant to the wildfire. And so all of us, including Comey, operate in a befouled atmosphere, tailoring our actions to it. But his desire to be a Boy Scout may have eclipsed sound judgment here, and rectitude is a quaint, shortsighted notion in an election this rife with accusations of bias, this primed for scandal, this frenzied. Were the emails in question sent to or from Clinton? But that’s exactly and predictably what he did. Mr. Comey said he was duty bound to inform Congress, Bob Kerrey, the former senator and governor, told me. He was duty bound to make an announcement after he completes his examination of the emails. He also defied the wishes of senior officials in the Department of Justice, according to various news reports early Saturday afternoon. And he frustrated everyone — conservatives, liberals, Trump, Clinton — because his disclosure was all questions, no answers. Regardless, the media went nuts, declaring that the development could bend the shape of the race and assuming damage to Clinton without any polling or other evidence to back that up. We don’t know what this means yet except that it’s a real bombshell, the journalist Carl Bernstein said in a phone interview on CNN on Friday, adding: It is unthinkable that the director of the F.B.I. would take this action lightly, that he would put this letter forth to the Congress of the United States saying there is more information out there about classified emails and call it to the attention of Congress unless it was something requiring serious investigation. A viewer couldn’t see him licking his chops but could hear it. They’ll be shouting rigged all over again. And those might be too intimate for her to make public herself. But now that Comey has flagged the whole batch of them, suspicion will never die. And if the emails are fresh cause for concern, will that be knowable, and digestible, before Nov. 8? On this point, too, we’re all in the dark. What a steaming mess, and that’s a comment partly on this specific situation but also on this election, which has devolved into a junkyard of innuendo, lies and conspiracy theories. Trump doesn’t bear all the blame for that, but he bears an ample share of it. On the subject of conspiracy theories, I can offer some comic relief, noting that he and Rush Limbaugh couldn’t get on the same page about the new emails on Friday. The cynical view, he said, is that Comey is still carrying water for Clinton and is trying to get everybody to stop paying attention on the WikiLeaks dump because it’s starting to have an impact. Let me get this straight: The crooked F.B.I. and the corrupt media throw just enough dirt at Clinton so that she’s sure to track it into the Oval Office?
BERKELEY, Calif. (KCRA) — Several fights broke out during largely-peaceful protests in Berkeley Sunday afternoon when about 4,0 people converged on the city, police said. Of the people arrested during the protests, several were wearing masks while others were connected to assaults. Two men were arrested after exchanging blows. The SFGate reported they were quickly swept up by officers inside Civic Center Park. Police detained Patriot Prayer leader Joey Gibson at the protests. The SFGate reported he was handcuffed after being chased by a mob of demonstrators who took swings at him and pepper sprayed him. Police said Gibson was actually "rescued" and was not arrested or charged. The event was one of several rallies that had been called for Sunday in Berkeley, a day after a controversial freedom rally planned by Gibson in San Francisco fizzled amid throngs of counterprotesters. Hundreds of people gathered on the UC Berkeley campus around 10 a.m. Sunday. They then marched to Civic Center Park, where police had set up barricades and secured the area with bomb sniffing dogs. The march was part of the Bay Area Rally Against Hate Rally. In a statement early Sunday, the group said "we fully intend to move forward with (the Rally Against Hate)" on the campus despite calls by the university police department for people to stay away for safety reasons. However, organizer Amber Cummings canceled the protest on Friday, saying Berkeley officials and left-wing extremists made it impossible to hold the event and she would be the sole attendee. Despite the cancellation, hundreds of ring-wing protesters showed up to the park. Around 1 p.m., police reported the crowd had grown to several thousand. The skirmish was tense but ended quickly. The left-wing protesters surrounded the small number of right-wing supporters, then shouted at them and pushed them. The right-wing protesters sought protection from police and were escorted away. Before the unpermitted events, Berkeley police put into place several rules in response the protests, stating, "To ensure the peaceful expression of free speech, the City of Berkeley will be prohibiting sticks, pipes, poles and anything else that can be used for a riot at Civic Center Park." Other banned items include explosives, pepper spray, axes, dogs (except for service animals), eggs, torches and more. Police also said anything that "covers or partially covers the face and shields the wearers face from view, or partially from view, is prohibited." However, protesters with an anarchist group arrived at the park wearing masks and hoods that covered their faces. Then the group blended in with the rest of the crowd. The group pushed their way past police barricades and into Civic Center Park. They assaulted at least five people by punching and kicking them. Gibson was one of the people assaulted by the group. Police broke up the fights, using what appeared to be a smoke grenade to stop one scuffle. The three people who were attacked ran behind police lines to escape. An hour later, the crowd had diminished and many roads reopened. ---- The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Donald Trump - Caricature (Image by DonkeyHotey) Permission Details DMCA The Man Who Predicted The Top Stock On The S&amp;P 500 Makes NEW Shocking Prediction US President Trumps threats this week to shut down critical news media is an ominous sign of how fragile American democratic rights have become. Trumps outlandish demand was reportedly made during a high-level national security meeting back in July. It was the same meeting during which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is said to have scoffed at Trumps antics and called him a "moron." But, adding to the furore, the president also went on to question whether the broadcasting license of NBC and other networks should be cancelled because of what Trump views as "fake news." That is, the president is speculating on shutting down media outlets. Such a move by a president would be legally unviable, according to US laws. But it shows the kind of slippery slope that US media and democratic rights are on. We can point to the increasing surveillance powers of federal intelligence agencies which have steadily encroached since the September 2001 terror incidents in New York and Washington DC. Media freedom in the US has been under assault for a long time. Trumps latest outburst is not a one-off anomaly. In recent weeks, the US government has moved to severely restrict the freedom of Russia-based news media operating in the country. A move that has so far not been reciprocated by Moscow on US media operating in Russia. Russian state-owned news channel RT has been forced to register as a "foreign agent" which will curtail how it carries out normal journalistic functions. Sputnik, another Russian state-owned channel, is also under investigation by US authorities over allegations of destabilizing American politics with "fake news." The crimping of Russian news media is part of a wider campaign to suppress all alternative media outlets, including US-based websites, which are being labelled as agents of "foreign interests" because of merely posting articles sourced from RT and Sputnik. These gatekeepers of information are openly moving to restrict access to "authoritative," "respectable" media outlets. The Mysterious Secret Stock – It Could Fund Your Retirement There is absolutely no credible evidence that Russian news media or alternative US-based sites are systematically engaged in an "influence campaign" to destabilize American democracy. But to lay the blame for this on Russian media is preposterous scapegoating. What really is the issue here is that US authorities and established media companies simply cant abide rival outlets that are providing an alternative, critical perspective. This is a critical perspective with grave legal and political implications for Washington and its allies. The latter charge is brazenly being used as a pretext to censor discomfiting information. There are many other international issues where Russian media are giving a valid, alternative viewpoint. All of the US established news media have propagated the bogus narrative of "Russian influence" and "Russian fake news." On this issue, Trump is right when he denounces as "fake news" the campaign to pillory Russia and to allege that the Kremlin directed state-owned media to influence the November presidential election in Trumps favor. If that "destabilizes" Washingtons illicit activities in overseas wars then thats what responsible journalism should be doing. Trumps latest threats to shut down the American news channel NBC over alleged "fake news" are indeed menacing. American democratic rights are indeed on thin ice. But that was the case long before the elephantine Trump arrived on the scene. How To Easily Kill 98% Of Mold In Your Home Trump to End the Dollar as We Know It by November 8, 2018? How To Easily Kill All Indoor Odor, Mold, And Bacteria — Without Lifting A Finger
Shutterstock A Republican student association at San Diego State University is facing backlash for sending a letter demanding Muslim students condemn last week’s terror attacks in Barcelona. The Republican Club at San Diego State University wrote to the Muslim Student Association, claiming that the campus community could not move forward creating ‘an inclusive environment for all students’ until radical terrorism was disavowed. The letter said if no condemnation was forthcoming, the leaders of the student group should be forced to resign. The letter, signed by SDSU College Republicans Chairman Brandon Jones, stated in part that until radical Islamic terrorism is disavowed by the Muslim Student Organization at SDSU, we cannot move forward in creating an inclusive environment for all students on campus. It added the Muslim Student Association’s leadership should resign if they do not disavow Islamic terrorism. The national Muslim Student Association expressed support for the San Diego State chapter for their solidarity, strength and perseverance in the face of ignorance and hate. The Young Democratic Socialists of SDSU responded by declaring: We condemn the San Diego State College Republicans’ disgraceful statement towards the SDSU Muslim Student Association and the SDSU Muslim community. The Transfronterizo Alliance Student Organization, which describes itself as working to create an inclusive campus environment for SDSU students who live a transborder lifestyle, joined the chorus.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump stands on stage with female supporters during a campaign rally, Friday, Oct. 14, 2016, in Charlotte, N.C. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci) What has happened to our country, that we will nominate a man for president who has bullied, bad-mouthed and intimidated the public for decades? What are we teaching our children and grandchildren? How can the Republican Party accept this hateful, racist, sexual predator who has lied, cheated people and paid no taxes? Donald Trump does not care about the Constitution and shows his ignorance about it every day. He is threatening people who do not support him, even within his own party. He has incited violence and says if he wins he’ll put his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, in jail. He has encouraged his supporters to intimidate voters at the polls, and now they are threatening a revolution. These are people like the Bundys — if they don’t get their way, they threaten their opponents with weapons. Trump has spread conspiracy theories that the election is rigged to help anger his base, which includes the K, the mentally unstable and those who hate immigrants. Trump and his supporters will not accept defeat. Are citizens ready to live in a lawless nation? It’s frightening to consider that he supports Vladimir Putin and has encouraged Russian hacking. Trump is unstable and unfit to represent this nation. Clinton may have some baggage, but she does not hold a candle to Trump. Trump is not running against Bill Clinton, so stop blaming Hillary for Bill’s mistakes. If you don’t like Clinton you have other reasonable choices, but please, never Trump. We cannot let our nation fall to a racist dictator. President Obama has more dignity in his little finger than Trump has in his whole body.
Councilor Mike Gaffney Quotes Voltaire About Free Speech, Failed Reporter Buttmunch Billy Shaner Says He Was Quoting A White Supremacist Want to advertise with Turtleboy? Email us at Turtleboysports@gmail.com for more information. With that in mind, I bring you a recent article in the Worcester Independent Leader by City Councilor At-Large Mike Gaffney blasting city leadership for policies that favor big business and development. The quote reads: To learn who rules over you, simply find out who you are not allowed to criticize. The quote kind of takes a different meaning in proper context, I think. Gaffney gives a completely applicable quote about the dangers of censoring free speech, which he and most other people attribute to Voltaire – the philosopher whose writings most historians agree was a driving force in the American Revolution. 3yt6jzHNH — Persia (ر) (@persiatx) August 13, 2014 So did Trump’s lucky sperm: To find out who rules over you, simply find out who you are not allowed to criticize. No one knows for sure if he did or didn’t. All we do know is that a random white supremacist from West Virginia also wrote it here 25 years ago. So obviously Councilor Gaffney has been brushing up on his 25 year old West Virginia white supremacist literature. Either that or he, just like many progressives and conservatives before him, believe this is a Voltaire quote. Anyone with a brain could see what Buttmunch Billy was trying to do here. He doesn’t like Gaffney because he’s a social justice warrior. They act like it’s harmless to throw these labels out there. And what I love about Gaffney is that he’s not afraid to fire back at these frauds, which is exactly what he did on his Facebook page last night: Juicy! Walter Bird didn’t write the blurb, but his newest employee did. The rest are clearly against him, so why should he place nice with them any longer? Instead of just apologizing and admitting he fucked up, Buttmunch Billy doubled down and said that he was NOT insinuating any racism on his part: Yea dude, no one believes you. Councilor Gaffney quotes white supremacist. That’s how it will be told from this point forward. Kind of like how people like Billy don’t blame Trump when his supporters do fucked up shit. Many accused him of racebaiting, but Buttmunch Billy once again disagreed: Yea, totally not race-baiting. White supremacy has nothing do with race. Because Josh was too much of a pussy to confront Gaffney himself. It looks as if the local African-American community was not impressed with their race baiting: Boom. Once Gaffney threatened to spill the bins on Walter’s sexting scandal, Billy realized he fucked up. It’s OK though, because Worcesteria is irreverent. My grandmother calls me about it on her landline. He’s baiting for us to write about him because he’s smart enough to realize that becoming a Turtleboy villain will at least make him somewhat relevant. We urge you to support the following local businesses.
Alex Jones (Right Wing Watch) Alex Jones delivered one of his all-time wildest rants against MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, whom he compared to demons, parasites and disease. The InfoWars host attacked the Morning Joe co-hosts Tuesday in a crazed tirade that included a bug-eyed, tongue-lolling impersonation of a demonic Brzezinski, reported Right Wing Watch. They’re both like horrible foot-long tapeworms, man, I’m telling you, Jones said. Tapeworms that we vomited out and crapped out and they’re just trying to force-feed themselves back into our lives. They’re like gonorrhea or syphilis, I mean they are just — they’re like HIV, they’re like cancer. They are just — I mean, you have to understand, folks, they literally want to destroy you. Do you realize how evil these people are? He promised the friends-turned-critics of President Donald Trump would be removed once Jones and his followers triumphed over their enemies, and then launched into a frenzied spasm of unholy gibberish. They’re like from upside-down world, folks, Jones said, making a reference to the Netflix series Stranger Things.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Columbia University Law School professor and confidant of former FBI Director James Comey refuted a charge by President Donald Trump and his advocates in the media Monday: that Comey shared classified information with journalists. Daniel Richman, with whom Comey shared at least one memo -- the contents of which Richman shared with New York Times reporter Michael Schmidt -- said President Trump was simply wrong. " No memo was given to me that was marked classified," Daniel Richman told CNN. " Richman did share the contents of one memo, he said, but "the substance of the memo passed on to the Times was not marked classified and to my knowledge remains unclassified." During Senate testimony in June, in which he said he gave memos to someone he described as a Columbia University professor, Comey said he specifically wrote the memos to avoid including classified information. " My thinking was, if I write it in such a way that I dont include anything that would trigger a classification, thatll make it easier for us to discuss, within the FBI and the government, and to -- to hold on to it in a way that makes it accessible to us," Comey told senators. On Sunday, writing in The Hill, John Solomon reported that, "More than half of the memos former FBI Director James Comey wrote as personal recollections of his conversations with President Trump about the Russia investigation have been determined to contain classified information, according to interviews with officials familiar with the documents." CNN has not independently verified The Hills report. The Hills reporting raised "the possibility," Solomon reported, that "Comey broke his own agencys rules and ignored the same security protocol" that Comey criticized Hillary Clinton for disregarding. Solomon did not report that the possible breaking of FBI rules was determined to have happened, nor did he report that this would be a violation of the law. Yet that is how President Trump depicted it in a tweet Monday morning: "James Comey leaked CLASSIFIED INFORMATION to the media. One of the issues at play may have to do with whether any contents of the Comey memos have since been upgraded to classified, although that has not been definitively reported by CNN. The-CNN-Wire ™ &amp; © 2017 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company.
With most rational individuals condemning Kathy Griffin’s reprehensible photoshoot, some dark souls are coming out of the woodworks and showing their true colors. Most of the country condemned Kathy Griffin’s now-infamous photo shoot holding a fake severed head of President Trump. The shocking photo shoot prompted a nationwide outrage and sparked debate over whether or not Griffin should be investigated as a threat to national security. As the Trump family reacted to the photo, it was reported that President Trump’s youngest child—11-year-old Barron—had seen the photo while watching the news and became understandably upset. The one thing these so-called artists fail to take into account is the impact their message will have on family members of their targets. It’s incredibly hard to believe that creating images of this violent nature wouldn’t provoke thought into how they will affect families or even the audience. Not only was Griffin’s photo shoot and full admission of wrongdoing completely unacceptable by anyone’s standards, it was disrespectful to victims of terrorism and their families. Radical Islamic terrorists are notorious for beheading innocent people—including Americans—for propaganda videos. By far, the most disgusting social media post came from some guy who apparently won big on Jeopardy over ten years ago. Ken Jennings took to Twitter and decided to campaign for Dirtbag of the Year. Barron Trump saw a very long necktie on a heap of expired deli meat in a dumpster. He thought it was his dad and his little heart is breaking, the game show winner from 2004 posted on his Twitter account. He even defended Griffin’s actions, citing—you guessed it—another game show from the ‘90s where he said Griffin was known for holding up severed heads. Barron Trump saw a very long necktie on a heap of expired deli meat in a dumpster. He thought it was his dad &amp; his little heart is breaking — Ken Jennings (@KenJennings) May 31, 2017 This kind of reaction is absolutely reprehensible, especially under the circumstances. CNN has since announced that Kathy Griffin has been fired from her job as a New Year’s Eve announcer for the network alongside Anderson Cooper, who also expressed outrage over the violent photo. With serious reactions to the photo taking place in the United States, opportunists usually crawl out of the woodwork to make a sad attempt at humor. Attacking a child who was understandably disturbed by the gruesome image of his father’s mock beheading is a new low in our society. Adding to this creep’s sentiment, Rosie O’Donnell weighed in via her Twitter account, dismissing Barron Trump’s reaction by asking, Do you think he saw anything about these 2 heroic men who died defending young girls? Hatred promoted by his father?This was in reference to the two men who were killed in Oregon defending a Muslim girl from an attack. Regarding which, by the way, President Trump released a statement condemning the act as hatred that has no place in the United States. It seems like reactions to disturbing incidents like the Kathy Griffin photo expose the true nature of individuals and separate those with compassion for humans—regardless of political belief—from truly heinous people.
Despite the fact that the Las Vegas shooter would have passed any an all background checks, some on the left still think background checks will somehow solve all of our ills in this country. They’re absolutely convinced that universal background checks will miraculously keep guns out of the hands of not just criminals, but also the man who may someday open fire on an unsuspecting crowd enjoying some music. However, what they think will happen and what actually occurs tends to be rather dissimilar. But such expanded background checks wouldn’t have stopped any of these attacks. Since 20, all of our mass shooters obtained their weapons without using private transfers. Attacks such as the San Bernardino massacre in California and the Umpqua Community College shooting in Oregon occurred in states that already have universal background checks. Indeed, mass public shootings have recently occurred in France, Belgium, Norway, Germany and other European countries where these background checks also exist. This hole in their argument is so glaring that even some of the media have noticed it. Last year, ABC News’s Jon Karl asked Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Why are we focusing on things that have nothing to do with the massacres that we are responding to? Murphy responded, We can’t get into the trap in which we are forced to defend our proposals simply because it didn’t stop the last tragedy. But obviously Karl’s question wasn’t just limited to the most recent attack. Research looking at U.S. data has consistently found no evidence that any type of background checks reduce rates of violent crime. Michael Bloomberg’s groups are the source of contrary claims, but they fail to analyze the national data in an academic manner. They compare states with background checks next to those without them. They do not compare states before and after background checks are imposed. The fact is that criminals have a pipeline for inexpensive black market guns that require no background checks either, as was illustrated by CBS in their report on Chicago gun crime. They’re not looking for private sellers who want the best dollar they can get from a prospective buyer. They want a gun, they want it cheap, and they want it now. Let’s also face the fact that criminals are, by definition, lawbreakers. They’re not concerned with whatever laws you pass because they’re already breaking so many, they figure, What’s one more? Despite claims by the leftists on social media, no one supports another massacre. However, it doesn’t make any sense to make proposals that do nothing except inconvenience and burden law-abiding gun buyers who want to follow the law. While I may disagree with Sen. Feinstein’s bump-fire stock ban proposal, at least that makes some sense in light of what we know from Las Vegas. Of course, why should anyone be surprised? These are the same people who still think banning guns will somehow ban violence in general while doing nothing about the underlying causes. Right now, things are no different except they’re also trying to ban things that have no bearing on what happened, just because they figure the public will back it at the moment. And I’ve had people wonder why I call these people ghouls.
State Police say an investigation has revealed the information in the viral video not to be accurate. ( Photo from ) ( ) -- The Michigan State Police out of Detroit took to Twitter reporting the claims of a viral video about human trafficking in a Metro Detroit suburb are not accurate. " It was investigated by law enforcement and not a case of human trafficking. He was right about being vigilant but that’s about it," said the State Police on Twitter. This is the Facebook post where Nick Ahmad claims human trafficking almost happened to his wife and others. The video has been viewed over 650,0 times and shared close to 30,0 times. After an investigation the Michigan State Police took to twitter saying the viral Facebook video is not accurate.
After constant attacks from the political and media elites, Steve Bannon has some of the thickest skin in America. Washed up rapper Eminem ripped Bannon during his now infamous BET Hip Hop Awards freestyle. When asked what he thought of the diss, the Breitbart boss offered a classic response. Former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon does not give a shit about Eminem’s freestyle roast in which he name-checks Bannon in his attempted takedown of President Donald Trump. On the record: Honey badger don’t give a shit, Bannon reportedly told Joshua Green, the Bloomberg reporter and author of the best-selling Devil’s Bargain book, on Wednesday evening. At the BET Hip Hop Awards on Tuesday, Eminem appeared in a video in which he attacked Trump and referenced Bannon. As TGP previously reported, Eminen went on a four minute freestyle rap against President Donald Trump. Complete with references to Steve Bannon and the K. Of course, there is no truth to anything Eminem was rapping about. Meanwhile inner cities across the US continue to suffer and wither away with their drugs, gangs and Democrat politicians. ( Warning on Language) Eminem obviously wants to be invited back next year.
Donald Trump rose to power by telling disaffected white people that the past represents the right and natural order. Joe The rise of President-elect Donald J. Trump is a triumph for white supremacy and misogyny that too many of us believed was impossible in the United States in 2016. Trump’s promise to Make America Great Again is a call to return us to a past in which white men of all classes could expect the government to protect their economic and social dominance relative to racial minorities and women. When you didn’t have to let black people live in your white apartment buildings. When it was difficult or dangerous for a person of color to participate in the political process by voting. When men were men, and women knew their value depended on their attractiveness and subservience to those men. When a high school diploma entitled a white man to a good job without competition from people of color, women or robots. Trump rose to power by telling disaffected white people that the past represents the right and natural order, and he can bring it back. He made no secret of who he would take our country back from: minorities, women, immigrants, Muslims, Jews. And despite his open disdain for the rule of law, he often justified his mission by invoking the language the reactionary right has long used to describe their quest to turn back time: restoring the Constitution. It is imperative that we stop letting the right own the Constitution. Given that we’re about to have a president with dictatorial aspirations, and both houses of Congress controlled by the Republican Party from which he sprang, the public needs more than ever to understand and demand our constitutional protections. We must be a meaningful check on how much damage these people can do. But for that to happen, liberals are going to have to stop letting the right’s claims to constitutional authority for their preferred social order go unanswered. Too often, liberals and progressives treat the Constitution as an obsolete document written by white men who enslaved black people and treated women as property that has little relevance to our modern battles. In doing so, we’ve ceded the ground to white men longing for the good ol’ days. Michael Cohen, Lanny Davis and the Russian Mafia Yes, the Constitution was written by white guys who got a lot very wrong, and it would indeed be a bankrupt document if it were frozen in time. Liberals must articulate a vision of the Constitution, because what Americans understand the Constitution to say acts as a constraint on what politicians and courts can do. The shocking election of Donald Trump tells us we haven’t made nearly as much progress as we thought toward convincing our fellow citizens that all people are created equal and protected by the Constitution. It’s a moment to remember that in the not-so-distant past a suffragette demanding the full rights of citizenship could be imprisoned and force-fed, and even more recently black people doing the same were beaten and lynched. In hindsight, it was somewhat naive to think the country had changed so much and so quickly that it would resoundingly reject Trump’s misogyny, racism and xenophobia. It is deeply unsettling to a large segment of Americans that they can suffer in economic malaise while a black man occupies the highest office, as the country becomes less white and Christian, and as women assume new roles. We need to be clear that there is no going back to when things were great just for white men – the changes we’ve seen are the inevitable result of moving closer to the equality the Constitution requires. We’re here, we’re queer, we’re female, we’re black, we’re brown, we’re Jewish and we’re Muslim. As dire as things feel today, Trump, his supporters and the Republicans who bred them will eventually have to get used to it. But the more concrete and immediate reason we have to start talking about the Constitution is that many of the things Trump wants to do are not only terrible policy, but flagrantly unconstitutional. We just elected a man who has proposed torturing people, making religious discrimination official policy, banning abortion and loosening up the First Amendment, along with a Congress full of Republicans who have proven incapable of standing up to him. We cannot let shock and fear and defeatism paralyze us. When Trump proposes something that is off-the-table constitutionally, We the People must tell him early and often and loudly that we’re not going to take it. Donald Trump becomes president-elect of the United States.
