the applicant was born in 1983 and is detained in sztum. at the time of the events in question, the applicant was serving a prison sentence in the barczewo prison. on 8 january 2011 the applicant’s grandmother died. on 10 january 2011 the applicant lodged a request with the director of prison and the penitentiary judge for leave to attend her funeral which was to take place on 12 january 2011. together with his application he submitted a statement from his sister e.k. who confirmed that she would personally collect the applicant from prison and bring him back after the funeral. on 11 january 2011 the penitentiary judge of the olsztyn regional court (sędzia penitencjarny sądu okręgowego w olsztynie) allowed the applicant to attend the funeral under prison officers’ escort. the reasoning of the decision read as follows:“in view of [the applicant’s] multiple convictions and his long term of imprisonment there is no guarantee that he will return to prison” 9. the applicant refused to attend the funeral, since he believed his appearance under escort of uniformed officers would create a disturbance during the ceremony. on the same day the applicant lodged an appeal with the olsztyn regional court (sąd okręgowy) complaining that the compassionate leave was granted under escort and also that he was only allowed to participate in the funeral (not the preceding church service). on 3 february 2011 the olsztyn regional court upheld the penitentiary judge’s decision and dismissed the appeal. the court stressed that the applicant had been allowed to participate in the funeral under prison officers’ escort. it further noted that the applicant was a habitual offender sentenced to a long term of imprisonment therefore there was no positive criminological prognosis and no guarantee that he would have returned to prison after the ceremony.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in cricova. in december 2010 the applicant was arrested in the russian federation and extradited to moldova, where he was placed in detention on 29 december 2010 on the basis of the detention warrant of 14 february 2002. the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request in which he complained, inter alia, that he had not been informed about the detention warrant of 14 february 2002 within seventy-two hours, as provided by law, and that there were no relevant and sufficient reasons to deprive him of his liberty. during his detention the applicant was jailed in prison no. 13 in chişinău between 29 december 2010 and 22 march 2012 and after 10 january 2013. the inmates were allowed to take showers only once a week and were subjected to passive smoking. after this date no more detention warrants were issued and he continued to be detained on the basis of the above sentence. undoubtedly, progress has been achieved in improving conditions of detention. however, some of the institutions visited by the special rapporteur were heavily overcrowded. the authorities themselves pointed out that institution no. the special rapporteur was informed of government plans to close down this institution. whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food. ...” in its report for 2010 (page 142 et seq. “ the same situation was confirmed during a visit to chişinău prison no. overcrowding comes directly within the ombudsman’s remit as part of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, which on many occasions has recognised overcrowding in the country’s prisons. ... in this connection, the minister of justice provided information to the ombudsman about the expenditure on prisoners’ food in 2010. this statistic was often cited by prison authorities to justify why they were unable to provide detainees with meat and fish. in the prisons, with the exception of taraclia prison no. 1, detainees are held in large-capacity cells insufficiently equipped for their daily needs, namely areas for sleeping, for everyday living and for sanitary equipment. in certain prisons the bunk beds essentially prevent daylight from reaching the living space.”
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in naro-fominsk in the moscow region. she died of the wound shortly afterwards. at 11 a.m. on 18 march 2004 the police arrived at the applicant’s flat and ordered him to follow them to the police station. then the officers questioning him showed him a call log from ms e.’s phone, informed him of the killing and suggested that he confess to mitigate his sentence. the applicant refused to admit to the crime. the applicant was not provided with legal assistance on 18 march 2004. no physical force was applied to the applicant. in the government’s submission, on 18 march 2004 the applicant complained to the town prosecutor’s office; however, he did not raise the issue of ill-treatment. a handwritten statement signed by the applicant and dated 19 march 2004 affirmed that the applicant’s rights had been explained to him; that he did not require legal assistance; that the “bodily injuries visible at [that] moment on [his] face and body [had been] inflicted on 11 march 2004 by [his] roommate dima”; and that police officers had not used force against him. in the early morning on 19 march 2004 the applicant was placed in a temporary detention centre (изолятор временного содержания, hereinafter “ivs”). between 11.10 a.m. and 12.50 p.m. on 19 march 2004 the applicant was questioned in the presence of mr b., a legal-aid lawyer. according to the government, in the course of the interview he described how he had committed the crime. he also selected a knife similar to that used to stab ms e. from a selection of four knives available at a local shop. on 20 march 2004 a judge of the naro-fominsk town court (“the town court”) placed the applicant in custody. on 26 march 2004 the police transported the applicant to a remand prison. however, the staff on duty refused to admit the applicant as he had visible injuries. on 18 june 2004 mr a., an investigator with the town prosecutor’s office, refused to initiate criminal proceedings into the alleged ill-treatment. the applicant raised the matter of ill-treatment before the regional court at his trial. it can be seen from the trial record of that date that n. informed the judge that he was not an expert in interpreting x‑rays and asked for a period of two weeks to consult a colleague; the judge acceded to the request. on the same date the applicant (through his counsel) lodged an appeal in which he insisted that the statement of surrender and confession had not been genuine as he had been forcibly brought to the police station and detained there for twelve hours with no access to a lawyer.
the applicants were born in 1983 and 2007 respectively and live in gevgelija, in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on 11 february 2007 she gave birth to their daughter, the second applicant. on 31 may 2007, on an application by the father, the gevgelija social welfare centre (“the centre”) made an order specifying that he could see the second applicant at the first applicant’s house every friday for two hours. the first applicant was also ordered to allow the father to see the child within 30 days after the judgment would become final. as the first applicant failed to comply in full with the order of 29 april 2008, on 28 may 2008 the centre allowed the order of 29 april 2008 to be enforced by means of a separate order issued under section 14 of the family act (see paragraph 46 below). in view of the above and by virtue of law, the expert team ... decided unanimously that there are statutory grounds for forceful enforcement of the executive order of 29 april 2008 ... and for proceedings to be instituted regarding custody of the child and criminal liability of [the first applicant]. the first applicant confirmed that she had received the enforcement order of 28 may 2008. furthermore, she argued that the delivery that she had received by post on 2 may 2008 had not contained the order of 29 april 2008. on 17 june 2008 the first applicant asked the centre to review the level of contact the father should have with the child. it appears that the first applicant complied with this order. she further applied for the removal of judge i.s., the first applicant decided not to testify at the hearing held on 10 july 2008. in a judgment of the same date the first-instance court, presided over by judge i.s., on 9 july 2009 the centre gave the father custody of the second applicant for fifteen days. according to the first applicant, on 23 november 2009 a lawyer acting on her behalf contacted the centre to find out the whereabouts of her daughter and it was allegedly on that occasion that she was given the centre’s order of 30 july 2009 (see paragraph 26 above). on an application lodged by the first applicant, on 5 march 2010, the order of 10 february 2010 was replaced by a new order by the centre, dated 17 march 2010, according to which the first applicant was allowed to stay with the second applicant every second weekend in the month, from friday (3 p.m.) to monday (9 a.m.). the court of appeal ordered the first-instance court to reassess the available evidence and provide convincing reasons why the first applicant was unfit to enjoy custody of the child. on 15 october 2010 the first-instance court dismissed the father’s application after hearing evidence from him and the first applicant and admitting expert opinions, of 25 august 2009 and 5 february 2010, which confirmed that both parents were mentally fit and had the required capacity to care for the child. relying on sections 8, 45, 47, 76 and 80 of the family act (see paragraphs 45-52 below) the supreme court stated, inter alia:“this court considers that after [the first-instance court’s] judgment of 10 may 2007, which granted [the first applicant] custody of [the second applicant], the child was deprived of the fundamental right to receive parental care from both parents because of the first applicant alone. on an unspecified date, the first applicant applied to the first-instance court for custody of the second applicant.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in oleksandrivka, kirovograd region. on 3 february 2007 the applicant was assaulted. according to the subsequent findings of medical experts, she sustained haematomas on her jaw, shoulder and hip, a bruise under her right eye, concussion, and a displaced rib fracture. the incident occurred in front of the applicant’s two-year-old granddaughter. on 4 february 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the police. on 5 february 2007 a forensic medical expert examined the applicant. he found that she had haematomas which he classified as “minor bodily injuries”. the expert found that in addition to the previously noted haematomas, the applicant had also suffered concussion and a displaced rib fracture. the expert classified the injuries as “bodily harm of medium severity”. on 20 may 2007 the investigator suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrator. on 6 october 2007 the investigator questioned mr and mrs k. 14. on 22 september 2008 the expert drew up a report generally confirming the findings of 22 february 2007. on 15 may 2008 the kirovograd regional police department informed the applicant that the police officers in charge of the case had been disciplined for omissions in the investigation. on 23 october 2008 the oleksandrivka court absolved mrs k. from criminal liability under an amnesty law, on the grounds that she had an elderly mother who was dependent on her. on 24 february 2009 the kirovograd regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) quashed that judgment, finding no evidence that mrs k.’s mother was dependent on her. on 1 july 2009 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 21. it also held that the refusal to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. had contravened the law. on 13 november 2009 the novomyrgorod prosecutor quashed the decision of 1 july 2009 not to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. subsequently the investigator again refused to institute criminal proceedings against mr k. 24. mrs k., the prosecutor and the applicant appealed. on 6 march 2012 the court of appeal quashed the judgment and discontinued the criminal proceedings against mrs k. as time-barred.
the first applicant was born in 1965 and lives in baku. the first and third applicants were candidates in the parliamentary elections of 2010. they were held, inter alia, on 11 and 12 march, 2 and 17 april, 22 may and 19 june 2011. all three applicants participated in a number of opposition demonstrations. according to the official records, the applicant was arrested for disobeying a lawful order of a police officer. but he ignored our lawful demand to produce his identity document. according to the applicant, he was never provided with a copy of the administrative-offence report or with other documents in his case file. his representation by that lawyer was ineffective and of a formalistic nature. he also complained that his arrest had been unlawful and that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair. the applicant’s father had let the police officers in. the applicant refused to sign the report. according to the transcript of the hearing before the sumgait court of appeal, the applicant claimed that he had not signed that statement. he urged the sumgait court of appeal to quash the first-instance court’s decision. in a report submitted to a superior police officer, police officer n.m. stated the following:“... at around 12.30 p.m. on 31 march 2011 on akhundov street [in sumgait] [we, the police officers,] noticed a person who was swearing loudly without addressing anyone in particular ... we approached him and ... brought him to police station no. issued an administrative-offence report in respect of the applicant. he was not given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while he was kept in police custody. decided to invite a lawyer to represent the applicant, without indicating at what stage the lawyer should join the proceedings. the only witnesses questioned during the court hearing were police officers m.n., on 15 april 2011 the sumgait court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in kyiv. on 22 march 2010 he complained to the court that the investigator had subjected him to physical and psychological pressure in order to make him confess to a crime which he had not committed. on 10 and 12 april 2010 k. underwent surgery twice in respect of the above-mentioned injuries and his spleen was removed. on 23 april 2010 the shevchenkivskyy prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against police officers in respect of k.’s ill-treatment for lack of corpus delicti in respect of their actions. on 8 july 2010 the shevchenkivskyy prosecutor’s office once again refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers in question, having found no evidence of criminal conduct. he stated that he had been called to cell no. he considered that the sudden deterioration in his health on 10 april 2010 had been the consequence of that ill-treatment. he did not, however, lodge an application with the court on that occasion. he submitted, in particular, that the origin of k.’s injuries while he had been under the authorities’ control had never been explained. on 30 september 2011 k. was assigned victim status in the criminal investigation launched on 10 march 2011. on 30 march 2012 the applicant enquired with the shevchenkivskyy police department about the progress of the investigation. according to the information submitted by the government, between 24 june 2010 and 20 april 2011 k.’s health remained stable and he did not seek medical assistance. on 8 june 2011 the sizo deputy governor and the chief of the medical unit replied that, following a planned x-ray that day, k. had been diagnosed with infiltrative tuberculosis of the right lung and had been transferred to the sizo’s medical unit for treatment. in another letter (dated 28 november 2011) from the sizo management to the applicant’s lawyer (see also paragraph 52 below), it was stated that on 8 june 2011 k. was also diagnosed as having hiv, chronic gastritis, hepatitis in remission and a drug addiction. in addition, he was classed as being in recovery following the removal of his spleen. each record begins with the statement that k.’s complaints remained the same, without specifying of what he complained. a decision was made to continue that treatment. in particular, she submitted that the adequacy and appropriateness of the medical care provided for her son had never been assessed. as a result, it had been decided on 31 december 2011 that there were no grounds for opening a criminal case (see paragraph 60 above). there is no information in the case file about any subsequent developments.
the applicants were born in 1988, 1989 and 1977 respectively. the applicants attended the demonstration, but shortly after it had begun the police started to disperse it. stated the following in a report (raport) submitted to a superior police officer:“... at around 5.30 p.m. at the seaside boulevard ... a group of young persons attempted to hold an unauthorised [demonstration] by shouting out loud, and disturbed people. when we wanted to calm down those persons they ignored us. ... according to those administrative-arrest reports, copies of which were submitted to the court by the government, the first and second applicants had been subjected to administrative arrest at 7 p.m. on 22 may 2011. however, all three applicants maintained that they had been kept in police custody overnight. on 23 may 2011, the day after his arrest, the first applicant, mr agasif ibrahimov, was brought before the sabail district court. according to the applicant, the hearing, which began at 12.40 p.m., was very brief and members of the public, including human rights defenders and journalists, were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. the applicant was not represented by any lawyer. according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. the applicant stated before the court that he was not guilty of disobeying a lawful order of a police officer. 39 where administrative-offence reports were issued in their respect. the court found that the applicant had failed to stop participating in the unauthorised demonstration. the court convicted him under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ “administrative” detention. the applicant lodged an appeal before the baku court of appeal, arguing that his conviction was in violation of his rights because the demonstration in which he had participated had been peaceful. he also complained that his arrest had been unlawful and that the hearing before the first-instance court had not been fair. he requested the baku court of appeal to quash the first-instance court’s decision. the applicant was represented before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choice. on 31 may 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court, stating that its findings had been correct. the only witness questioned during the court hearing was police officer r.g.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kharkiv. the kharkiv ordzhonikidze district police department invited the applicant and one of her colleagues for questioning in respect of the theft. she was made to wait there for about twenty minutes. t. and his colleague, s., who was also in the office, intimidated the applicant with a view to making her confess to the investigated theft. they told her that her colleague, ms l., had already started to “crack”. the applicant noticed ms l.’s belongings on the floor. at the same time they struck her head, face and mouth so that she could not bite through the bag. she fainted once again and urinated involuntarily. thereafter she was brought before a female officer, who conducted her formal questioning. she was then taken to the office of the head of the search unit, who stated that she was the main suspect in the theft case and that all her colleagues had indicated her as the likely thief. 56, where the officers threatened her and tried to pressure her into confessing. she repeatedly refused to do so and professed her innocence. on 18 november 2008 the police department refused to open a criminal case following the information from the hospital administration. on 15 january 2009 the investigator seized the trousers which the applicant had been wearing on 8 november 2008. a forensic immunological examination discovered traces of her urine on them. that evaluation was based on her medical file, as well as a medical examination of her. on the same date officer t. challenged the decision of 12 december 2008 before the ordzhonikidze district court (“the ordzhonikidze court”). this ruling was quashed by the court of appeal on 7 may 2009. on 5 june 2009 the ordzhonikidze court once again quashed the prosecutor’s decision of 12 december 2008. on 30 september 2010 the ordzhonikidze court upheld that decision.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is detained in opole lubelskie. he had a criminal record and had previously been detained. on 17 december 2009 he was convicted of a murder and sentenced to 25 years’ imprisonment. on an unspecified day in september 2007, the applicant was transferred to the lublin remand centre. on 3 october 2007 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission also imposed the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant. subsequently, the commission extended the application of the dangerous detainee regime to the applicant on numerous occasions. all these decisions were issued on a special form containing space for reasoning. it first noted that it was capable of examining whether the commission had remained within the limits of reasonableness and the limits of free assessment of circumstances of the case. he also referred to the applicant’s self-mutilation on 17 june 2010 and found that on 18 june 2010 he had been examined by a psychologist who had not found any obstacles to placing the applicant in solitary confinement as a disciplinary penalty. the applicant appealed against the decisions of 23 december 2010 and 23 march 2011. in his appeal against the former decision the applicant claimed, in particular, that the commission had arbitrarily classified him as “dangerous”, that he had no access to the opinions and the prison authorities’ request leading to this classification, and he had been debased and humiliated by “[being] consciously kept ... in inhuman conditions”. in total, the dangerous detainee regime was applied to the applicant for four years, one month and nine days. in the kielce remand centre the cells were constantly monitored via closed-circuit television. he had access to a library and daily newspapers, and could listen to the radio. he also had access to a recreation room with sport facilities. the cell there was equipped with a sanitary facility which was not separated from the rest of the cell. the applicant had to wear a red uniform designated for dangerous detainees, which was not warm enough in winter. those shackles consisted of handcuffs and fetters joined together with chains. some disciplinary measures had to be applied to the applicant because of his aggressive and vulgar attitude toward prison guards. on 10 february 2012 the applicant was convicted by the lublin regional court of having assaulted a public servant on 4 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1927 and lives in zagreb. the applicant, as his spouse, was also a holder of a specially protected tenancy of that flat. on 3 june 1991 parliament enacted the protected tenancies (sale to occupier) act (zakon o prodaji stanova na kojima postoji stanarsko pravo – hereinafter “the sale to occupier act”), which regulated the sale of socially-owned flats previously let under a specially protected tenancy (see paragraph 19 below). however, state-owned flats were excluded. on 3 october 1991 the government adopted a decree (uredba o preuzimanju sredstava jna i ssno na teritoriju republike hrvatske u vlasništvo republike hrvatske) whereby it took all the ypa’s property in croatia into state ownership. the time-limit for lodging a request to purchase such a flat was set at sixty days. on 29 january 1997 the constitutional court abrogated some of the provisions of the aptso, including the one stipulating the time-limit for lodging a purchase request (see paragraph 23 below) 11. the applicant’s husband died on 15 april 2006. on 7 june 2006 the applicant lodged with the ministry of defence a request to purchase the flat she was occupying. the request was denied on the ground that it had been lodged outside the prescribed time-limit, which had expired on 31 december 1995. on 19 march 2008 the applicant brought a civil action in the zagreb municipal court seeking a judgment in lieu of a sale contract. the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the time-limit under the aptso for lodging a request to purchase a state-owned flat had been abrogated by the constitutional court and that no new time-limit had been fixed. the fact that there was no prescribed time-limit in place should not have been interpreted to the detriment of a plaintiff. the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 12 october 2010. u-3551/02 of 25 may 2005) ... even though a request to purchase a flat had not been lodged before 31 december 1995. in such particular cases the constitutional court has adopted decisions based on particular circumstances. the view of this court is that the holders of specially protected tenancies of state-owned flats were obliged to lodge a request for purchasing these flats before 31 december 1995 (with the exception that in certain circumstances it was possible to claim that a party was prevented from lodging such a request within that time-limit on objective grounds).” the applicant’s subsequent constitutional complaint was dismissed on 20 february 2013. the relevant part of that decision reads:“the constitutional court notes that the competent courts dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that she had not proved that any objective circumstances had prevented her from lodging a request to purchase the flat in issue within the prescribed time-limit. the constitutional court considers that the impugned decisions contain reasons acceptable from the standpoint of the constitutional law and that therefore they cannot be seen as arbitrary or unreasonable.”
the first applicant organisation is the vienna chamber of medical doctors (ärztekammer für wien). the chamber represents all medical practitioners in vienna and also has its own website. on 18 january 2007 the second applicant published a letter on the first applicant organisation’s website, which was addressed to all members of the chamber in vienna and was also sent out to all of them via e-mail. the letter was titled “locust funds want to take over medical practices” (“heuschreckenfonds wollen ordinationen übernehmen”). the second applicant then explained the assumed legal and organisational basis of such a plan: radiology services which were currently being provided by medical practices could, in future, also be offered by limited companies. shares of those companies could then be bought by the f. company, and the “locusts” would reach their goal, namely control of the medical profession. today, almost all of those laboratories were owned by the f. group, which, in turn, was owned by insurance companies, investment funds and foundations, and which employed a large number of doctors. on 24 january 2007 the f. company lodged an action against the two applicants and an application for an injunction with the vienna commercial court (handelsgericht wien). the applicants contested the application. on 16 february 2007 the vienna commercial court issued an injunction prohibiting the applicants (each of them individually) from repeating the statement that the f. company was ruthless towards third parties, in particular medical professionals. the court found that there was a competitive relationship between the f. company and the applicants, and found the statements made by the applicants to be defamatory under article 1330 of the civil code and unethical under the unfair competition act (bundesgesetz gegen den unlauteren wettbewerb). the applicants appealed against the injunction. the court of appeal found that the first applicant organisation had locus standi in the injunction proceedings. according to the court of appeal, the letter in issue pursued the interests of the chamber’s members, outside the chamber’s official sphere of activity. the applicants lodged an extraordinary appeal with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof). on 7 july 2008 the commercial court gave its judgment in the substantive proceedings and ordered the applicants to refrain from: repeating the statement that the f. company was ruthless towards third parties, in particular medical practitioners and patients; and stating that the f. company was a “locust company”, a “locust fund” or a “locust”. it further ordered the applicants to publish and display the operative part of the judgment on the first applicant organisation’s website for thirty days, and to publish it in the first applicant organisation’s print newsletter. with reference to the court’s case-law allowing for a wider margin of appreciation under article 10 of the convention with regard to commercial language, the commercial court observed that a competitor was required to be more diligent in the context of commercial communication among competitors. on 19 september 2008 the applicants lodged an appeal against that judgment. therefore, the expression used had turned into a statement of fact, giving the reader the impression that the f. company had already demonstrated unethical conduct which threatened the interests of doctors and patients.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is currently in detention in lublin. on an unspecified date before october 2011 the applicant was convicted of assault and of endangering lives through arson and extortion. on 14 october 2011, the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission (“the commission”) imposed a special regime for detainees deemed to be dangerous (“the dangerous detainee regime”) on the applicant. the commission referred to the fact that the applicant had organised a collective protest in opole lubelskie prison, namely, a hunger strike by prisoners, and that he had planned an attack on a prison employee. the applicant did not appeal against the decision to impose the regime on him. the decision was reviewed and upheld by the commission every three months. on 12 january 2012 the commission again reviewed the situation and upheld its decision, considering that the applicant posed a serious danger to the security of the prison. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. on 11 april 2012 the commission reviewed and upheld its decision, relying on the same grounds as previously. on 16 may 2012 the commission examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld its earlier decision. it referred to the applicant’s conduct, finding that he had often behaved aggressively. the applicant lodged a court appeal against the commission’s decision. on 13 june 2012 the lublin regional court dismissed the appeal, holding that the decision had been lawful. on 14 july 2012 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission lifted the dangerous detainee regime in respect of the applicant. it based its decision on the applicant’s good behaviour and the fact that he no longer posed a danger to the prison. the applicant’s cell, including its sanitary facilities, was constantly monitored via closed-circuit television. the window was covered with a plastic blind. the applicant was subjected to a body search every time he left and entered the cell, which in practice meant that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers and was required to bend over to allow his anus to be examined. whenever he was outside his cell, including at court hearings, the applicant had to wear joined shackles (kajdanki zespolone) on his hands and feet. the shackles consisted of handcuffs and fetters joined together with chains.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in karabulak, ingushetia. the killing of mr apti dalakov and subsequent events 7. mr apti dalakov was hit by a car and fell to the ground. at about 5.20 p.m. police captain [g.g.], the armed men, who were in camouflage uniforms and civilian clothing, who had conducted this special operation, had refused to identify themselves, had not presented any documents, and had warned that they would use firearms against the police officers. this man was running with an automatic rifle and firing at the young man. he had heard the gunshots and immediately called the police station. in his statement the officer submitted that at about 5 p.m. on 2 september 2007 he and his colleagues had arrived in karabulak in a service vehicle to identify and detain members of an illegal armed group, mr i.d. the witness and his colleagues got out of the car, shouted “on the ground! and granted them victim status in the criminal case. on 3 december 2007 the head of the investigating department overruled the decision of 2 november 2007 to terminate the criminal investigation as unsubstantiated at the request of the karabulak town prosecutor. the applicant was not informed of that decision. had got down on the ground, whereas mr apti dalakov had started running away. on 5 september 2007 a relative of mr apti dalakov, mr m.kh., on 14 august 2008 the applicant complained to the karabulak district court under article 125 of the code of criminal procedure about the failure of the investigating department to open a criminal case in connection with mr apti dalakov’s killing and failure to take basic steps to establish the circumstances of the incident. the police officers from the karabulak town police department and the ingushetia omon who had arrested the individuals, who shot mr apti dalakov were not questioned. during the examination the representative of the investigating authorities submitted that they had transferred the evidence concerning the killing of mr apti dalakov to a military prosecutor’s office. the court finds the applicant’s and his lawyer’s allegations unsubstantiated, as they are not properly argued and are not supported by appropriate evidence. subsequently, the lawyer repeatedly enquired with the court by telephone and in person about the examination of the complaint. according to article 125 of the russian code of criminal procedure, this complaint should have been examined within five days of its receipt.
at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities. where relevant, the dates of their detention are listed in annex i. 5. while in detention, the applicants mr yevdokimov, mr rezanov, and mr morozov lodged defamation claims against private third parties; the applicants mr makhov, mr resin, mr anikanov, mr lebetskiy, mr gromovoy, mr gordeyev and mr vinokhodov brought claims seeking compensation for the allegedly inhuman conditions of their detention; and the applicant mr martirosyan lodged a civil claim for compensation, alleging that the criminal proceedings had been instituted unlawfully. none of the applicants were able to attend the hearings at which their claims were examined. the domestic courts refused them the possibility to be present at the hearing, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts. in particular, they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 11 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure. in the other cases, the issue of the applicants’ presence in court was not addressed. the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in the appeal statement. some submitted a separate request seeking leave to appear before the appeal court. the appeal courts either dismissed the applicants’ arguments or concluded that their absence from the court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness. the applicants’ claims were refused at two levels of jurisdiction. the dates of the final judgments are set out in annex i.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in konstancin jeziorna. the meeting had been recorded by the latter and transcriptions from the recording were later included in the article published by his newspaper. after the case was revealed in the press, the public prosecutor at the warsaw court of appeal brought proceedings against the applicant, on 31 december 2002, on a charge of influence peddling (przestępstwo płatnej protekcji), under article 230 of the criminal code. on 14 january 2003, the commission, consisting of ten mps, began its work. on 25 june 2003 warsaw regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim, finding in particular as follows:“until the final conviction has been handed down, the complainant must be treated as a person presumed innocent. it is nevertheless true that he had been charged with specific offences, that a bill of indictment had been preferred against him, and that the matter is being examined by a parliamentary commission of inquiry. the image of lew rywin had appeared on a number of occasions in the media in connection with this matter. in the meantime, the criminal investigation and the work of the commission were ongoing. the commission sat throughout 2003 and until 5 april 2004, when its last session was convened. on 31 march 2004, after the closing of the witness hearings, the court made public all the evidence, including that which it had received from the commission. on 21 april 2004 the newspaper gazeta wyborcza published an article with the heading “before the judgment” (“przed wyrokiem”), beginning as follows:“the biggest corruption scandal of the third republic will certainly end in a failure for the justice system – regardless of the charges on which lew rywin is convicted or the sentence handed down. at the end of its last session on 5 april 2004, the commission adopted its final report, concluding that the applicant had acted alone. several commission members submitted their own draft reports to the sejm. the report, disseminated by the media, was widely discussed and commented on by the various public stakeholders. the court of appeal took the view, in sum, that this was tantamount to implying that only an adjournment of the criminal proceedings pending the outcome of the commission’s work could have preserved its fairness. as to the applicant’s complaint that the testimony used in support of his conviction had been vitiated by the fact that the witnesses had been heard by the regional court after being questioned on the same circumstances by the commission, in public sittings that had received significant media attention, the court of appeal regarded it as ill-founded; testimony was always assessed by judges in accordance with the rules in article 7 of the code of criminal procedure and in the light of all the evidence. the sejm may set up a commission of inquiry in order to examine a given matter. the defendant shall be presumed innocent until proven guilty in a final judgment. the court shall, in its discretion, rule on questions of fact and of law and shall not be bound by any decisions of another court or body. any records of testimony taken from witnesses or defendants during an investigation, court proceedings or any other proceedings provided for by law may be read out in open court, unless any of the parties present [at the hearing] object thereto or it is indispensible for the court to gather the evidence itself.
the applicant was born in 1943 and is currently detained in riedstadt psychiatric hospital. the applicant has previous convictions for rape dating from 1968 and for indecent assault combined with causing bodily harm by dangerous means dating from 1990. it also observed that the applicant had tried to subjugate several prostitutes whom he had been seeing in recent years. the regional court found that this indicated an evolution in his behaviour. the applicant was arrested on the same day and placed in the haina clinic for forensic psychiatry. however, the expert opinion did not diagnose sexual sadism. according to the verdict of the trial court, the applicant had probably fulfilled his sexual inclinations with prostitutes in order to avoid being charged with an offence. there was no call for therapy as the applicant neither suffered from his behaviour nor desired to change it. on 3 september 2007, on 20 august 2008 and on 18 august 2009 similar forensic psychiatric expert opinions were delivered by the hanau clinic for forensic psychiatry. on 26 january 2010 the applicant was transferred to the haina forensic-psychiatric hospital. on 30 september 2008 the frankfurt am main court of appeal allowed the re-opening of the criminal proceedings which had been terminated by the judgment of the darmstadt regional court dated 14 january 2002. on 17 september 2013 the federal constitutional court declined to consider the applicant’s related constitutional complaint without providing reasons (file no. on 15 march 2011 the haina clinic for forensic psychiatry, where the applicant was detained, delivered an expert opinion on the necessity of the applicant’s further detention in hospital. although it found a high risk that the applicant would re‑offend, it confirmed the prior assessment that the applicant represented a classic instance of an erroneous hospital treatment order. on 26 july 2011 the regional court heard the applicant and his counsel in person as well as a psychological expert from the haina clinic for forensic psychiatry. furthermore, the court took into account that the applicant had refused to provide credible and full information about his sexual history and had thus rendered a certain diagnosis impossible. lastly, the regional court noted, but explicitly without basing its decision on this fact, that the expert opinion which had been delivered in the course of the re-opening proceedings of the criminal trial had confirmed the diagnosis of sadism. in conclusion, the regional court found that the applicant could not be released on probation as he had refused investigation of his problems relating to sexuality and violence. on 16 august 2012 the federal constitutional court (file no. the applicant’s appeal in this respect was dismissed by the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in st. brought an action against the applicant in the regional court. the action was served on the applicant’s counsel on 18 june 2005. the applicant had assets in liechtenstein, specifically claims for salary and fees against emk and emk engineering, which both had their seat in liechtenstein. following a constitutional complaint of 22 february 2006, on 1 march 2006 the constitutional court granted the applicant’s application to have the court of appeal’s interlocutory decision be given suspensory effect. she had been in possession of the shares in order to make a minority shareholder think that f.h. was no longer holding shares in the companies. transferring the shares to him as a gift in 2003 at the latest. following a hearing, on 27 may 2010 the court of appeal, endorsing the findings of the regional court, dismissed the applicant’s appeal dated 3 february 2010. on 18 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint (running to eighty pages plus annexes) with the constitutional court against the supreme court’s judgment and decision. relying, inter alia, on articles 6, 13 and 14 of the convention and on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, the applicant complained, in particular, about the length of the proceedings. he further submitted in that context that he had not had at his disposal an effective remedy, such as an application to speed up the proceedings, in order to enforce his convention rights. the applicant would have only had to bear the decision fee if his constitutional complaint had been dismissed. the applicant further submitted that, for different reasons, the five judges of the constitutional court individually had not been impartial. as regards the court’s president, judge b., the applicant complained that he had delayed the appointment of the judges who were to decide on his complaint. he further worked with judge h. on a regular basis. on the same day, on 15 may 2012, the constitutional court delivered its judgment (file no. moreover, the courts had generally duly furthered the proceedings. there was therefore a gap in the law which had to be filled by way of judicial interpretation.
on 16 september 1982 the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder. on 29 november 2001 the applicant’s case was referred to a panel of the lsrc. in the course of the hearing the applicant dismissed his solicitor. he instructed new solicitors in late september 2002 but they only obtained a legal aid certificate in april 2003, despite the chairman of the panel intervening to expedite the process. at a hearing on 9 january 2004 the chairman indicated that he would allow the applicant to reopen the issue of whether or not he had committed the alleged assaults. a preliminary hearing date was fixed for 16 march 2004. on 17 may 2004 the applicant’s solicitors wrote to the smith panel to complain about the late submission of the witness statements and the decision to permit the complainant to be called as a witness. on 4 november 2004 the smith panel indicated that it would not direct the secretary of state to issue a witness summons to secure the complainant’s attendance. in addition, both parties submitted written representations. finally, the applicant submitted that there had been undue delay by the lsrc in progressing the hearing of the referral and there had accordingly been a breach of article 5 § 4 of the convention. on 23 may 2006 the high court dismissed the application. on 4 july 2006 the applicant filed a notice of appeal against the judgment of the high court in which he argued that the smith panel had misdirected itself as to the standard of proof required to establish the allegations against him; that the procedure before the smith panel had been unfair and in breach of articles 5 § 4 and 6 of the convention, most notably because the applicant’s nieces should have been required to give evidence; and finally, that there had not been a “speedy determination” of the lawfulness of his detention. in any case, the court found it inconceivable that evidence of this nature should have been ignored when the safety of the public was at stake. he also sought damages in respect of that violation and an order for bail. on 1 may 2008 the applicant issued a claim for judicial review challenging this decision of 20 march 2008 by the first rodger’s panel. their lordships considered that the procedure adopted in respect of the subpoenaing of the complainant had not been unfair because it had not disadvantaged the applicant. they therefore considered that from 29 november 2001 – when the matter was first referred to the lsrc – until 3 august 2005 – the date of the smith panel’s decision – the lsrc had taken reasonable steps to proceed to a hearing and that any delays had been mostly out of its control. the sole issue was therefore that of current risk. the judicial review application was remitted to the high court. on the advice of counsel given on 20 june 2011 the applicant did not pursue an appeal to the supreme court.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1975 respectively and live in moscow. in 2007 the kirov region’s property management department founded the state unitary enterprise kirovles (когуп «кировлес»). in early 2009 the first applicant discussed kirovles’ financial and logistical problems with its director, x. he suggested that the company join forces with a timber trading company to bring in customers and, in particular, curtail the kirovles timber mills’ practice of direct sales for cash bypassing kirovles’ accounts. on 1 september 2009 kirovles terminated the contract with vlk. he had therefore terminated the contract. they also claimed that the contract had been entered into under pressure from both applicants, whom their director had perceived as acting for the governor. on 28 january 2011 the investigative committee decided not to open a criminal investigation against the first applicant for lack of corpus delicti. on 10 may 2011 the acting chief of the investigation division of the investigative committee decided to open a criminal investigation in respect of both applicants. during the investigation, which lasted for eleven months, both applicants were questioned, as well as x, ms b., two former kirovles employees and nineteen timber mill directors. it follows from the parties’ submissions that the following witnesses were also questioned. witness mr a., chief of the kirov regional forestry department, made a statement about how the contract between vlk and kirovles had been concluded and how the first applicant and x had been at odds. witness mr k., deputy chief of the kirov regional forestry department, stated that the first applicant had insisted on an independent audit of kirovles and proposed restructuring it to prevent financial manipulation by x. seven other witnesses, all managers of vlk, gave details about vlk’s work to find customers for kirovles in accordance with the contract. i am warning you, there will be no mercy, no forgiveness if such things happen again. if you have grounds to close it, report it. the article included copies of documents stating that he held a czech residence permit and owned a private business during his tenure at the investigative committee. on 9 january 2013 the judgment against x acquired legal force. on 20 february 2013 the first applicant filed a complaint with the kirov regional court (“the regional court”) about the refusal to consider his appeal. however, it stressed that the first applicant had not been accused, or convicted, of any abuse of his official position at the governor’s office:“mr navalnyy [is not suspected of] committing a crime by abuse of his official position; consequently, the defence’s arguments that the governor’s volunteer consultant had no powers to give binding instructions to the companies’ management do not refute the accusation [or] prove that it was impossible for mr navalnyy to commit the crime and order its execution.” ...according to the ruling of the plenary of the supreme court of the russian federation no. on 19 july 2013 the regional court granted the request and released the applicants on parole.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in słomczyn. on 6 april 2009 the applicant was arrested on charges of participation in an organised and armed criminal group involved in extortions and procuring of several violent offences committed while acting in an organised criminal group. on 8 april 2009 the warsaw wola district court (sąd rejonowy) remanded the applicant in custody, relying on the reasonable suspicion that he had committed the offences in question. it further considered that keeping the applicant in detention was necessary to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings. it also stressed the severity of the anticipated sentence which might encourage the accused to interfere with the conduct of the proceedings. the court relied on the same grounds as previously. the bill of indictment concerned altogether nine accused charged with thirty six offences. the applicant’s appeal against the decision of that court of 23 december 2010 was dismissed by the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) on 20 january 2011. on 31 march 2011 the warsaw regional court gave judgment. it considered that the reasons previously given remained valid. the court also referred to the fact, relied on by the court which had imposed the detention on the applicant (see paragraph 8 above), that one of the charges against him concerned witness tampering by means of violence. on 18 april 2013 the warsaw court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the above mentioned decision. on 5 june 2013 the applicant’s detention on remand was lifted. the proceedings are still pending before the warsaw regional court. the court also referred to the severity of the anticipated penalty and the need to secure the proper conduct of the proceedings. they emphasised the need to secure the process of obtaining evidence and the complex character of the case. the applicant was charged with several instances of drug trafficking committed in an organised criminal group. the prosecutor requested the trial court to hear fifty-eight witnesses. the bail was paid and the applicant was released on 2 july 2014. the court also imposed on him police supervision and a ban on leaving the country.
the applicant is a moldovan national belonging to the german ethnic minority. he signed various confessions, allegedly following threats to him and his relatives. neither the applicant nor his lawyer was present at the hearing. on 21 april 2010 the applicant’s detention was extended again until 4 august 2010. the metal truck he was transported in when being brought before the investigator was suffocating, and he was placed in a cell without a toilet for hours on end (while waiting to be interviewed by the investigator) and suffered numerous asthma attacks. his parents requested on many occasions that their son be seen by a lung specialist. despite the panel’s findings, the applicant was transferred on the same day to the ivs in hlinaia, which, as stated by the applicant and not contradicted by the respondent governments, was less well equipped than the centre. after his transfer from the centre to the ivs in hlinaia on 15 february 2010, his state of health had deteriorated and on 17 march 2010 he had been immediately transferred to the centre for treatment. on 16 february 2010 a visit was authorised, but the applicant and his mother had to talk to each other in the presence of a prison guard. for further details, see ilaşcu and others (cited above, § 90). on the same day the applicant was officially recognised as a victim. in a news report dated 23 november 2006, the regnum news agency reported a statement by the “mrt president” to the effect that each “mrt ministry” was working on harmonising the legislation of the “mrt” with that of russia, and that a group of representatives of “mrt ministries” was to travel to moscow within the next few days to discuss the matter. special training is needed for those judges involved in juvenile justice matters. one woman who had appealed an original sentence had been detained for four years. the cpt recognises that in periods of economic difficulties, sacrifices may have to be made, including in penitentiary establishments. the latter are basic elements of life which every prisoner is entitled to enjoy; moreover, the absence of these elements generates conditions favourable to the spread of diseases and in particular tuberculosis. the commander of the operative group of russian forces reported in may that surplus stocks of 40,000 small arms and light weapons stored by russian forces in the transdniestrian region have been destroyed. ...on 13 november, a group of 30 osce heads of delegations, along with osce mission members, gained access for the first time since march 2004 to the russian federation ammunition depot in colbasna, near the moldovan-ukrainian border in northern transnistria. the voluntary fund retains sufficient resources to complete the withdrawal tasks.” in catan and others (cited above, §§ 64-73) the court summarised the content of various reports by intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations concerning the situation in the transdniestrian region of moldova and the russian military personnel and equipment stationed there during 2003 and 2009.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kaunas. the purchase agreement indicated that the nominal value of the land was 2,976 lithuanian litai (ltl  approximately 862 euros (eur)). the applicant subsequently obtained a building permit and built a storehouse on the land. in december 2003 the kaunas county administration (hereinafter “the kca”) brought a claim before the kaunas district court (kauno rajono apylinkės teismas) seeking the annulment of the administrative decisions and the purchase agreements on the basis of which plots of land had been sold to the applicant and to several other individuals. the kca argued that the land in question had to be returned in natura to its former owners and thus had been sold to the applicant and other individuals unlawfully. on 4 june 2004 the kaunas district court allowed the kca’s claim. on 7 february 2005 the kaunas regional court partially quashed the first-instance judgment. however, it noted that the “single-use investment vouchers” could no longer be used as a means of payment. thus, in accordance with the civil code, the applicant should have received the monetary equivalent of what she had paid in 1995. the court remitted that part of the case for re-examination in order to assess the monetary equivalent. the remitted part of the case was subsequently re-examined by the kaunas regional court sitting as the court of first instance. on 6 march 2008 the kaunas regional court dismissed the applicant’s request for compensation equating to the full market value of the land. the court found that the authorities could not be held solely responsible for the unlawful sale because the applicant had also had a duty to verify whether she had been buying the land lawfully. thus, the court held that, for the purposes of article 6.147 § 2 of the civil code, the applicant could not be considered a bona fide purchaser and was not entitled to compensation for the full market value. the court awarded her the nominal value of the land in 1995, which it assessed to be ltl 29.70 (eur 8.60). the court also noted that if the applicant considered that she had suffered pecuniary damage, she had the right to institute separate proceedings against the state for damages. on 19 august 2008 the court of appeal partially amended the regional court’s judgment. on 27 january 2009 the supreme court upheld the judgment of the court of appeal; however, it partially amended the reasoning. the supreme court stated that the nominal value of the land had been indicated in the purchase agreement, so it had not been necessary to apply article 6.147 of the civil code and assess the monetary equivalent. as a result, the applicant’s good faith had been irrelevant in determining the amount of compensation and should not have been examined.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). they have the same historical context and relate to the same domestic criminal proceedings. on 17 december 1989, following demonstrations against the government and on the orders of president nicolae ceauşescu, military operations were conducted in timișoara and, over the following days, in other towns, including bucharest, reșița and braşov. these operations caused many civilian deaths and casualties. according to a document of 5 june 2008, issued by the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice, “more than 1,200 people died, more than 5,000 people were injured and several thousand people were unlawfully deprived of their liberty and subjected to ill treatment”, in bucharest, timişoara, reşiţa, buzău, constanţa, craiova, brăila, oradea, cluj, braşov, târgu mureş, sibiu and other towns in romania. in addition, it appears from ministry of defence documents, declassified by government decision no. 94/2010 of 10 february 2010, that thousands of servicemen, equipped with combat tanks and other armed vehicles, were deployed in bucharest and other cities. during the period of 17 to 30 december 1989 they used considerable quantities of ammunition against the demonstrators. the applicants are people whose relatives were shot and killed in the events which took place between 17 and 30 december in bucharest, except for the applicant in application no. 45779/14, whose husband was killed in reșița and the applicant in application no. 24127/14, whose son was killed in braşov. in 1990, military prosecutors in bucharest, timişoara, oradea, constanţa, craiova, bacău, târgu mureş and cluj opened investigations into the use of force and the unlawful deprivation of liberty of the participants in demonstrations in the final days of december 1989. to date, the main criminal investigation into the use of violence, particularly against civilian demonstrators, both prior to and following the overthrow of nicolae ceauşescu, has been contained in file no. the most important procedural steps undertaken between 1990 and 2009 were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41). subsequent developments are described below. the investigation into crimes committed by civilians, members of the patriotic guards, militia members and prison staff was severed from the case file and jurisdiction was relinquished in favour of the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice. on 18 april 2011 the military prosecutor’s office relinquished jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice on the grounds that the investigation concerned both civilians and military personnel. by an ordinance of 14 october 2015, the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice discontinued the proceedings in relation to case file no. the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in istanbul. on 7 september 2004 the music section of the academy administration published a list of successful candidates in the entrance examination, which included the applicant. counsel for the applicant submitted that she had satisfied all those criteria. he also cited the names of former blind students who had graduated from the same music academy. it stated that article 4 of the principles governing admissions and enrolment in the music academy set out the “no disability” criterion. 2577, there had been two preconditions for obtaining a stay of execution: the existence of damage which was irreparable or difficult to repair, and the apparent unlawfulness of the administrative act in question. they also submitted that such refusal was unlawful. the only reason for the refusal of enrolment had been her blindness. on 11 march 2005, acting in the applicant’s name and on her behalf, her parents submitted a complaint to the bakɪrköy state prosecutor against the bakɪrköy research and training hospital, its chief medical officer and the other doctors who had amended the medical report of 16 september 2004, accusing them of abuse of office. on 18 july 2005 they lodged an appeal with the istanbul court administrative requesting the setting aside of the decision not to enrol the applicant. on 14 october 2005 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it transpires from the defence of the respondent administration that in the 1970s, when the music academy was set up, it had enrolled a number of blind students on a trial basis, but, in the absence of teaching staff conversant with the braille alphabet and having regard to the various difficulties encountered, that experiment was discontinued. it has been established that the administration wrote to the chief medical officer of bakɪrköy hospital requesting information on the interpretation of the medical report which it had issued and that the conclusions of that report had subsequently been amended. 1739, that no one could be deprived of his or her right to education and instruction. in his view, it was beyond doubt that it was incumbent on government departments to put in place an environment conducive to education and instruction and meeting the needs of blind persons. he consequently held that the impugned administrative measure had been unlawful. the two reports covered by the inquiry are similar in content. they submitted that that decision was contrary to the constitution, to act no. 5378 and to several international instruments and declarations. on 4 january 2007 the administration of istanbul technical university filed its defence.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in orsk, the orenburg region. the summons contained no further details. at 11 a.m. on 15 february 2005 the applicant, who was 17 years old at the time, arrived at the police station, as requested, together with his father and his friend ms l. a police officer on duty registered their arrival at the police station. at some point e. came out and the applicant was untied and the handcuffs were removed from him. an ambulance, which had been called after the incident with the broken glass, arrived and the applicant was examined by the ambulance medical assistant, who provided him with first aid and left. the applicant went home, which was about three kilometres away, on foot. on 15 february 2005 the orsk police department was alerted by the town hospital that the applicant had been taken to hospital with injuries allegedly inflicted by police officers. on 21 february 2005 the applicant’s father complained to the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been the victim of police officers’ unlawful actions. s. had seen coagulated blood on the applicant’s eyebrow and on his head. s. had asked the operative officers to leave the office and asked the applicant about the origin of his injuries. the ambulance staff had provided the applicant with first aid. p. gave statements similar to those by e. about the applicant hitting the bookcase with his head. on 5 march 2005 operative officer k. stated that the police had had information, notably explanations by an eyewitness to a theft at a certain shop, that the applicant could have been involved in the theft. the applicant had confessed to the theft and had written a statement. on 11 march 2005 investigator g. stated that she had requested that the applicant be summoned to the police station for an identity parade in a criminal case concerning assault and battery. the applicant complained of recurring headaches. her examination had not revealed any obvious signs of concussion. then medical assistant n. had examined the applicant. he complained, in particular, that the investigator had never held an identity parade in order to identify the two unknown police officers who had delivered blows to the applicant’s head. the applicant’s father appealed against the district court’s decision.
the applicant first visited cyprus in 1991. as a result of this marriage he obtained cypriot nationality in september 2000. two years later the applicant divorced his wife and married his second wife, a syrian national. he and the syrian national divorced in 2005. following a request by the applicant an investigative committee was set up. the applicant was also heard by the committee as part of the investigation. on 23 july 2007, on the basis of the report of the investigative committee, the council of ministers decided to deprive the applicant of his cypriot nationality on public interest grounds, pursuant to section 113 of the census bureau law of 2002 (see relevant domestic law and practice at paragraph 37 below). the report concluded that the applicant had been involved in cigarette trafficking and in the trafficking of illegal immigrants between syria and cyprus. the next day, at the applicant’s request, he was transferred to a private hospital and remained under police custody until his discharge from the hospital on 21 october 2010. after that he was detained at a police station in pera chorio nisou (nicosia district) and was transferred to the hospital on various occasions, where he remained in police custody. the same day, the applicant filed a request for a provisional order seeking the suspension of his deportation and an order for his release. it appears that the applicant took this decision because he had been in detention for too long. 1226/07 (the appeal against removal of citizenship: see paragraph 9 above). he did not and claims that he thus remained in detention. on 29 january 2011 the applicant was deported to syria. on 28 november 2012, the applicant withdrew his recourse against the deportation and detention orders (recourse no. the applicant returned to cyprus on 20 march 2012. he then married his third wife (that is, the woman he had already married in syria in 2007: see paragraph 7 above). on 24 october 2013, the civil registry and migration department commenced proceedings in the nicosia district court for payment of the detention expenses, which, as it considered, were still owed by the applicant (see paragraph 14 above). that claim was withdrawn on 31 july 2015.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in brčko, bosnia and herzegovina. she submitted that she had been educated in croatia and that she had lived in zagreb for seventeen years. she also explained that she wanted to live with d.b., with whom she had been in a relationship for two years, and with whom she wanted to establish a household and start a business. stated that she owned a house in sisak where she wanted to live with the applicant. during the proceedings the sisak police department (policijska uprava sisačko-moslovačka) found that the applicant and d.b. had been in a relationship since october 2009 and that in order to maintain their relationship they had been travelling to see each other. it was also established that the applicant had recently stayed with d.b. in the period between 16 september and 4 december 2011. on 8 june 2012 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the sisak police department. the relevant part of the ministry’s decision reads:“concerning the family reunification, based on which the request for the regularisation of the status of an alien in croatia has been submitted in the case at issue, [it is to be noted that] the case file shows that the appellant relies on the existence of a same-sex relationship with the croatian national d.b., ...it follows that the [same-sex union] act does not define a same-sex union as a family and the family act does not cover same-sex unions. on 24 july 2012 the applicant lodged an administrative action with the zagreb administrative court (upravni sud u zagrebu), arguing that she had been discriminated against in comparison to different-sex couples who had a possibility to seek family reunification under the aliens act. the zagreb administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action on 30 january 2013. however, given the limited legal effects of a same-sex union, the possible existence of such a union does not represent a basis for family reunification. which is not in dispute between the parties. it therefore follows that the plaintiff cannot be considered an immediate family member within the meaning of section 56 § 1(1) and (2) of the [aliens] act and thus she did not justify the purpose (in the concrete case: family reunification) for which a temporary residence of an alien in croatia can be granted ...in view of the cited legal provisions, and the facts of the case, this court finds that in the concrete case it was not possible to grant the plaintiff’s request.” the relevant part of the decision reads:“8. discrimination means difference in the treatment of persons in the same or relevantly similar situations without an objective and reasonable justification. the constitutional court also notes that the appellant, in the concrete case, did not show that she has used the legal avenue under the prohibition of discrimination act ...there has therefore been no violation of her constitutional right under article 14 §§ 1 and 2 of the constitution.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in st petersburg. the first twin died nine hours after her birth. hospitals] have waiting lists – a brutal practice. thus in ... april at ... a.m. in maternity hospital no. ... [ in a very serious condition ... the death [of my granddaughter] has shocked our family. on 15 june and 1 august 2003 d. sent two more telegrams to the president of the russian federation, stating:“i am informing you for the second time that emergency neonatal resuscitation for premature babies in st petersburg is being provided on the basis of a waiting list. who is responsible for the deaths of these children? her blood test had indicated the possibility of a prenatal viral infection, and she had been clinically diagnosed as premature (at thirty‑one weeks), with respiratory distress syndrome and atelectasis. it was concluded that she had been born with severe respiratory distress syndrome complicated by an air leak syndrome, and that she had been provided with treatment which had been entirely appropriate, given the seriousness of the condition and the nature of the disease. the report also noted that the second twin had suffered from respiratory distress syndrome as well, but to a much lesser extent. on 5 september 2003 the acting head of the committee sent the report to the ministry with an accompanying letter. on the same day, the committee forwarded to the ministry a copy of its reply to d. and informed the ministry that, according to the conclusion of a commission formed by the maternity hospital where the twins had been born, the reasons for the applicant’s premature delivery had been her compromised obstetric‑gynaecological history – in particular, seven artificial abortions – and her urogenital mycoplasmosis infection. the letter of 12 september 2003 was the subject of proceedings brought by the applicant against the committee, about which no further information is available. on 3 december 2003 the applicant received a letter from the committee with similar contents to the letter of 12 september 2003 that it had sent to d., stating, in particular, that her children’s medical records had been examined by the panel of experts. she requested that the report and the letter of 5 september 2003 be declared invalid. a representative of the committee denied the applicant’s allegations. the ministry had had the power to request material from the committee, which in turn had had a corresponding duty to submit detailed information. the district court also noted that the applicant had lodged her application on 25 february 2005, although she had learned that her children’s medical records had been obtained without her consent on 3 december 2003 from the committee’s letter of that date. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. she had therefore complied with that time-limit.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is currently detained in a psychiatric hospital in lippstadt. in 1979 the applicant forced two seven-year-old girls, and in 1980 a four-year-old girl, to undress and hit them with a stick. on 21 january 1983 the münster regional court convicted the applicant of attempted rape together with sexual assault and dangerous assault and of attempted murder and assault. this damage, combined with failings in his upbringing (he had repeatedly been hit by his father with a stick himself), had caused a consciousness disorder and the sadistic sexual tendencies the applicant had disclosed in his offence. the criminal proceedings in this respect were discontinued with regard to his previous conviction. the regional court noted that external psychiatric expert t., in his report dated 28 january 2010, had diagnosed the applicant, whom he had examined in person, with an abnormality of the sex chromosomes (so-called klinefelter syndrome). the expert considered that the applicant’s retardation had partially been offset by hormonal treatment. in assessing the risk emanating from the applicant, the expert considered that it had to be taken into account that the applicant had already committed a number of sadistic offences against children. there was a risk that, if the applicant were overstrained or frustrated, he might commit offences as a result of sadistic tendencies. the expert stated, however, that it was impossible for him to assess how far the applicant was still driven by sadistic fantasies. however, he was still unable to reflect on the motives for his offence. despite the fact that the applicant had proved reliable during leave from detention during recent years, it could not be expected with sufficient probability that the applicant would not reoffend if released. in particular, it could not be ruled out that his sadistic tendencies persisted. the applicant was currently not undergoing therapy, in the proper sense of the term, and suffered from hospitalism. on 23 february 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal against the regional court’s decision. by submissions dated 1 april 2011, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. the applicant underwent several courses of therapy, including social therapy and psychotherapy, during his detention in the psychiatric hospital. however, he had repeatedly declined offers to restart such individual or group therapy. when granted leave under escort several times per year, he has visited members of his family. on 18 january 2012 the paderborn regional court, endorsing the reasons given in its previous decision, ordered the applicant’s continued detention in a psychiatric hospital.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in st petersburg. she had a garage and a small storage building (‘the construction’) in yerevan measuring 21 sq. m. in total, that she had apparently built without authorisation. on 26 august 2005 a lease agreement, valid until 22 july 2010, was concluded between the mayor of yerevan and the applicant. on 5 september 2005, based on the mayor’s decision of 22 july 2005, the applicant received an ownership certificate in respect of the construction. on 20 july 2006 the mayor of yerevan lodged a claim against the applicant with the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to invalidate her ownership certificate in respect of the construction and the lease, on the basis of the decision of 19 june 2006. this power of attorney was then signed and sealed by g. 13. the first hearing before the district court took place on 24 october 2006. pursuant to that article, a representative’s powers must be stipulated in a power of attorney issued and drawn up in accordance with the law, the power of attorney issued by a citizen shall be certified by a competent official, while the powers of an advocate shall be certified in accordance with the law. the decision to return the counter-claim can be appealed in cassation proceedings within three days from its receipt by the claimant.” on the same day the district court also examined the mayor’s claim and decided to grant it. it appears from the postal envelope that the copy of the judgment was delivered to the applicant’s local post office on 18 november 2006 and was received by the applicant on 20 november 2006. on 15 november 2006 advocate g. lodged an appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against the district court’s decision not to admit the counter-claim. he claimed that the provisions of the civil legislation did not require that a power of attorney issued to an advocate be certified by a notary. in such circumstances, the violations of the above-mentioned requirements serve as a basis for returning the appeal on points of law. ...in view of the above reasoning ... the court of cassation decides to return the appeal on points of law against the decision of ... of 1 november 2006 lodged by [the applicant’s] representative [g.]...” 21. the court finds that the request should be rejected and the appeal dismissed since the appellant has failed to submit any documentary proof which would substantiate this allegation; moreover, ... the case file contains a postal receipt ... according to which a copy of the above judgment was sent to [the applicant] on 8 november 2006 with registered mail in accordance with the procedure and within the time-limits prescribed by ... the code of civil procedure. on 15 february 2007 the court of cassation declared the appeal on points of law inadmissible for lack of merit. in doing so, it stated, in particular, that:“the civil chamber of the court of cassation ... having examined the appeal on points of law lodged by [g.] against the decision of the civil court of appeal of 19 january 2007 to return [the applicant’s] appeal, found that it should be returned for the following reasons... the court of cassation finds that the admissibility criteria set out in article 231.2 § 1 of the code of civil procedure are absent in the appeal on points of law lodged in the present case. besides, the person who has lodged the appeal has failed to submit a power of attorney drafted in compliance with the civil legislation ...at the same time, the court of cassation does not find it appropriate to provide a time-limit to rectify the errors and resubmit the appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1961 and is currently detained. on the night of 12 to 13 june 2003 a house was robbed and three individuals were murdered in the ivanivka district of the odessa region. on the same day, the applicant was taken to the sumy regional police headquarters, where he was allegedly beaten up by police officers from the odessa regional police. an investigator from the odessa regional prosecutor’s office, the applicant was arrested on 30 june 2003 as a suspect in the criminal case. the applicant refused to sign the report. thereafter, the applicant was questioned by i.g. on 8 july 2003 the applicant was transferred to the odessa temporary detention facility (ізолятор тимчасового тримання, “the itt”). according to the applicant, the itt had initially refused to admit him because of his injuries and a medical officer arranged for him to attend the local hospital for a medical examination. however, the hospital doctors refused to issue a new certificate. with the robbery and murder of three persons. that the police officers had beaten him and put psychological pressure on him in order to force him to confess. on 23 october 2003 the itt informed him about the injuries observed on the applicant on 8 july 2003 and about the disagreement as to their full extent which had occurred on that day. the investigator relied on a certificate from the sizo, according to which at the time of the applicant’s admission to the sizo he had had no injuries, and on the itt records of 8 july 2003 describing the applicant’s injuries. on 16 february 2004 the applicant refused to continue to be represented by lawyer k. and was given time to find a new lawyer. following remittal of the applicant’s criminal case for an additional investigation, on 2 october 2004 it was transferred to the odessa regional court of appeal for trial. retracted all their confessions, which they claimed had been given under duress, and asserted their innocence. the applicant raised the complaint that he had been ill‑treated. guilty of murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment with confiscation of their property. the applicant and his lawyer appealed in cassation, complaining, inter alia, of the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment in police custody, as a result of which he had confessed. on 11 april 2006 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction.
he is polish and lives in kent, the united kingdom. in 2005 the couple moved to the united kingdom. parental responsibility was exercised jointly by both parents. on 21 september 2012 the applicant applied to the united kingdom central authority for a return order for the child under the hague convention. submitted that in 2011 she and her husband had become distant from each other; the applicant had lost interest in his family and had been spending his spare time playing computer games. the first hearing was held on 19 december 2012 before the grudziądz district court, with judge d.k. the applicant and his lawyer attended the hearing. and the child, who was three years old at the time. and the members of both families and the rodk experts’ report. on the merits, the grudziądz district court considered that it was called to examine “the relationship between the child and [each of] the parents, her physical and psychological development and also, any [possible] physical or psychological harm [which could occur] in the event of the child’s return to her father without the mother.” the domestic court did not rule on that application. he did not rely on article 21 of the hague convention. on 28 february 2013 the grudziądz district court, with d.k. on 28 november 2014 the grudziadz district court issued a decision on the applicant’s contact with his daughter. ...article 16after receiving notice of a wrongful removal or retention of a child in the sense of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the contracting state to which the child has been removed or in which it has been retained shall not decide on the merits of rights of custody until it has been determined that the child is not to be returned under this convention or unless an application under this convention is not lodged within a reasonable time following receipt of the notice. 431 and 432)“it is thus legitimate to assert that the two objects of the convention – one preventive, the other designed to secure the immediate reintegration of the child into his habitual environment – both correspond to a specific idea of what constitutes the ‘best interests of the child’ ... however ... it has to be admitted that the removal of the child can sometimes be justified by objective reasons which have to do either with its person, or with the environment with which it is most closely connected ...” (§ 25, p. 432)” 35. in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration...article 7 1. a court to which an application for return of a child is made as mentioned in paragraph 1 shall act expeditiously in proceedings on the application, using the most expeditious procedures available in national law. a court cannot refuse to return a child unless the person who requested the return of the child has been given an opportunity to be heard. article 201 this convention shall not affect any obligations which a contracting state may have towards a non-contracting state under an international instrument dealing with matters governed by this convention.
the first applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in the vologda region. on 24 october 2005 the first applicant was arrested on suspicion of manslaughter. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 24 july 2006 the vologda town court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to nine and a half years’ imprisonment. on the same date she studied the case file. on 7 december 2006 the regional court examined the applicant’s case on appeal. prior to the appeal hearing via video link. in order to make sure that she had a sufficiently thorough knowledge of the case as to be able to carry out his defence effectively. the applicant appealed, stating that he was not guilty and that the trial court had erred in assessing the evidence before it. on 12 april 2007 the applicant asked the supreme court (acting as the appeal court) in writing to appoint a lawyer to represent him. according to the applicant, the quality of the sound was very poor. he stated that he reiterated his request to be represented before the appeal court; that request was refused. the applicant participated in the proceedings by means of a video link. he was represented by a state‑appointed lawyer, u. 19. on 19 may 2011 the applicant discussed his case with m. by means of a video link. the court adjourned the hearing in order to ensure that the applicant could meet with m. 22. on 20 may 2011 the supreme court resumed the hearing. the applicant informed the court that he had discussed the case with m. by means of a video link. the court heard the applicant, m., and the prosecutor. m. did not submit any grounds for appeal; she only made oral submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bucharest. however, on 31 july 2008 the chief public prosecutor quashed this decision and relinquished its jurisdiction in favour of the national anti-corruption prosecution service (“the nap”). on 20 march 2009 the nap started a criminal investigation in respect of the applicant on the ground that he was an accomplice to an offence of abuse of position committed by the rector of the university of agronomy. on the same day the prosecutor issued orders to appear before the investigators against the applicant and five other co-defendants. subsequently, another co-accused, p.p.d., was questioned between 8.30 p.m. and 10.05 p.m. 18. two lawyers chosen by the applicant were called and invited to nap headquarters to assist him. between 10 p.m. and 10.55 p.m. the applicant was informed of the charges against him and was heard by the investigators. the next day, on 25 march 2009, at about 6.40 p.m., the nap asked the bucharest court of appeal to remand the applicant and the other two defendants in custody (the rector was released) for twenty-nine days, from 25 march 2009 until 22 april 2009. in this connection it stressed that the applicant had not evaded criminal proceedings, but had complied with every summons from the prosecution service. the applicant contested the measure before the bucharest court of appeal, arguing that the prosecutor’s decision did not provide sufficient reasons for the extension of the restrictive measure, adding that he had willingly attended each time he had been summoned by the investigators. he relied on the fact that he was an important businessman for whom freedom of movement outside the country was vital for conducting his business. he added that the speediness of the proceedings was in his own interest too, because as a well-known businessman his reputation and integrity were being harmed as long as there were proceedings pending against him. it also stated that there was still reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence, but the revocation of the restriction would not impede the proper administration of justice. it dismissed the applicant’s complaint, and upheld the nap’s decision to extend the restriction. on 18 june 2009 the nap extended the restriction on the applicant’s right to leave the country for another thirty days. it noted in this connection that no procedural act had been carried out in the case since 21 may 2009, and the applicant, a well-known businessman, had been present whenever the investigators summoned him. an appeal on points of law lodged by the nap was dismissed by the high court of cassation and justice on 3 july 2009. the applicant refused to give a statement, availing himself of his right to silence. on 21 december 2012 the file was registered with the bucharest court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in sibiu. was transferred to the intensive care unit. the head of the gastroenterology unit, decided to perform an endoscopy of the stomach. on 19 september 2005 the two doctors were questioned by the sibiu county police. the applicant’s statement was taken on 26 january 2006. the report noted that hospital practice had not been adhered to as the patient should have been admitted to the gastroenterology section, given the diagnosis. nevertheless, the conclusion was that the treatment received by l.m. was adequate and correct and there was no indication of medical error. on 11 april 2007, in a briefly-worded decision based on the forensic medical report, the prosecutor’s office of the sibiu county court decided not to commence criminal proceedings against the two doctors as there had been no finding of medical errors. in january 2011 the family doctor, m.l.i., had presented with signs of hepatic distress and that she had recommended various tests. they did not remember any relevant details about the case. he further requested a confrontation with the two doctors under investigation. on 4 april 2012 two doctors specialising in gastroenterology, called as witnesses by the applicant, testified before the prosecutor that the diagnosis and treatment applied by drs c.c.r. however, the prosecutor observed that all the medical reports drafted in the case had concluded that the patient’s diagnosis had been correct and that he had had the appropriate treatment. the prosecutor stated that the endoscopy performed before the patient’s death had been rendered more difficult owing to the absence in the country of the drug needed to clear blood from the patient’s stomach. the prosecutor’s decision was upheld on 16 july 2012 by the head prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office of the sibiu county court. it gave its decision on 27 february 2006, ruling that no medical errors had been made. on the basis of the evidence presented to it, on 7 december 2006 the national college of doctors terminated the disciplinary proceedings against drs c.c.r. an appeal by the applicant against that judgment was allowed by the braşov court of appeal on 26 february 2008.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in stockholm. the show was broadcast live with a few recorded features. in the show, the applicant, who was unknown to the broader public, appeared in pictures and was mentioned by name. he was singled out as the central figure of organised crime within media and advertising and as being guilty of several counts of fraud and other economic offences. the programme was re‑broadcast on 25 april and 17 september 2004. at this time, no criminal investigation had been initiated against the applicant. it was sent by satellite link from sweden to the london-based company viasat broadcasting uk ltd and from there sent unaltered to a satellite which transmitted the programme to the swedish audience. it was presented in the swedish language for a swedish-speaking audience, and was sponsored by companies competing in the swedish market. he maintained that he had been unreservedly pointed out as the central figure of organised crime within media and advertising and as being directly or indirectly responsible for a large number of serious crimes. x disputed the claim on the grounds, inter alia, that he was not the responsible editor of the show and that he enjoyed the freedom to communicate information as provided for under chapter 10, section 2 of the constitutional law and as clarified by the supreme court (högsta domstolen) in the case nja 2005 p. 884 (see paragraphs 32 and 33 below). the court finally drew the parties’ attention to the supreme court case nja 2005 p. 884. the applicant appealed, repeating what he had stated in his earlier submissions. although viasat ab had acquired the right to transmit the show from the swedish company tv3 ab, it had had no impact on or responsibility for the programme selection. the applicant also submitted that swedish courts were competent to examine the case under the brussels i regulation (see further paragraph 35 below). x contested the arguments and submitted that it was the company viasat broadcasting uk ltd, whose seat was in the united kingdom, which was responsible for the programme service and decided on the final content of the programmes. it further stated that the burden of proof concerning the applicability of the constitutional law rested on the applicant and that he had not, in response to x’s refutation, established that the decisions concerning the programme content were taken in sweden. in the present case, the harmful event had occurred in sweden and the applicant thus should have had the right to bring his action before the swedish courts. on 21 september 2009 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s referral request and refused leave to appeal in the case. he was convicted of aggravated fraud as well as tax and bookkeeping offences and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. the criminal proceedings were finalised by a supreme court decision to refuse leave to appeal on 4 october 2010.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in mežica. thus undertaking criminal prosecution as private prosecutor. on 16 november 2006 the ljubljana district court handed down its judgment and found a.š. guilty of the criminal offence of defamation, giving him a suspended sentence of one month in prison and ordering him to pay the costs of the proceedings. in respect of the applicant’s claim for compensation, the district court held that the claim was unsubstantiated and directed the applicant to seek compensation in civil proceedings. both parties appealed against the judgment before the ljubljana higher court. however, it dismissed the complaint concerning the applicant’s unsuccessful claim for compensation, confirming the lower court’s view that it had not been substantiated. the applicant did not institute separate civil proceedings for compensation. had lodged a request for the protection of legality; however, the notification did not include a copy of the said request for the protection of legality. in that response, the supreme state prosecutor agreed that the criminal action had been brought out of time. however, neither the applicant nor his representative were served with that response; nor were they ever served with the request for the protection of legality. and a lump sum covering court fees of 600 euros (eur). not being aware that the request for the protection of legality had already been decided, on 3 september 2008 the applicant’s representative requested the relevant documentation from the ljubljana district court. on 5 september 2008 the ljubljana district court informed the applicant’s representative that the case-file documents had been with the supreme court since 30 june 2008. on 12 september 2008 the supreme court informed the applicant’s representative that a.š. had lodged a request for the protection of legality which had been upheld on 28 august 2008. on 20 november 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. citing articles 14, 22 and 23 of the constitution, the applicant claimed that he had not been afforded equality before the law and that his right to judicial protection and his right to equal protection had been violated as he had not been given the opportunity to participate in the proceedings before the supreme court. he also alleged violations of the convention, citing articles 6 and 14 and article 1 of protocol no. 1, the latter in respect of the fact that he had been ordered to pay the opposite party’s costs of the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in buivydiškės, vilnius region. on 17 october 1994, in court proceedings instituted by the government, the vilnius region district court ordered the buivydiškės district council of the vilnius region to implement the aforementioned decision of the government. it indicated the amount of land to which each listed individual was entitled but did not specify actual plots. however, as submitted by the applicant and not disputed by the government, the applicant had not been using this land since no land had been provided to her at that time. it ordered matininkai to amend the delimitation and allocation of plots accordingly and to prepare all the necessary documents by 15 october 2002. in july 2002, april 2004, april and november 2006 and february 2007 the applicant and her husband petitioned the vca and the national land service (hereinafter “the nls”), stating that they had still not received the land to which they were entitled, and requesting that such land be provided to them without further delay. on 13 october 2006 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the claim. the supreme administrative court noted that the applicant had been entitled to buy two hectares of land by the decision of 16 march 1995 and that she had been included on the list of land users in january 2002 (see paragraphs 10 and 14 above), so on these grounds the vca was obliged to allocate a specific plot of land to the applicant. in may and june 2007 the bailiff in charge of the enforcement of the supreme administrative court’s judgment submitted several notices to the vca, urging it to enforce the judgment immediately. in august 2008 the applicant asked the vca to inform her whether the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 30 may 2008 had been enforced. the applicant was not included on that list. in march 2009 the bailiff urged the vca to immediately enforce the supreme administrative court’s judgment of 30 may 2008. however, in december 2009 the vilnius regional court annulled the first-instance decision, noting that the vca had already included the applicant on the list of candidates to receive a plot of land (see paragraph 36 below), which meant that the judgment of the supreme administrative court had been partly enforced and thus there were no grounds to order a fine. in november 2010, during a meeting between arlitanus and candidates of the seventh priority rank, the applicant was offered two plots of land, amounting to a total of two hectares. in june 2012 the nls approved the plan of the buivydiškės cadastral area prepared by arlitanus, which delimited plots of land to be allocated to candidates of the first-to-fourth priority ranks. however, a few days later the applicant notified the nls that she would accept the four offered plots. on 31 december 2014 the nls approved the land allocation plan of the buivydiškės cadastral area and a list of over twenty individuals who had been allocated specific plots of land. that same month the state land fund assessed the value of the four plots (after excluding the 0.55 hectares of forestland). in july 2007 the applicant and her husband submitted a complaint against the vca to the vilnius regional commission of administrative disputes (hereinafter – “the commission”). in june 2009 the district prosecutor decided to discontinue the criminal investigation against the vca on the grounds that no crime had been committed.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chelyabinsk. 3 of the chelyabinsk region and underwent two courses of chemotherapy. in december 2012 a court authorised the applicant’s early release on health grounds. he was sent to serve his sentence in detention facility no. on 3 march 2014 he was transferred to the prison tuberculosis hospital. on 13 march 2014 a medical panel, comprising the deputy head of the prison tuberculosis hospital and doctors from the same hospital, examined the applicant and diagnosed him with progressive non-hodgkin lymphoma in acute iii b stage, with lesions of the cervical, axillary and abdominal lymph nodes. the applicant did not appeal against the decision. it was once again noted that the applicant was eligible for release on health grounds. he submitted that his disease had progressed to its final stage and that he had relatives who could take care of him. b., a doctor from the prison tuberculosis hospital, testified that the applicant needed chemotherapy and radiation therapy, but was unable to receive such treatment in detention since the necessary equipment was unavailable at the hospital. on 7 november 2014 the government responded to the court’s letter of 17 october 2014, submitting the following documents:-  a handwritten copy of the applicant’s medical history drawn up during his detention. as appears from that document, he received basic analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs, antihistamines, sleeping pills, antidepressants, antiemetics and neuroleptics. -  certificates issued by the acting head of the prison tuberculosis hospital, indicating that the applicant had not been provided with chemotherapy for his lymphoma as he had not consented to that treatment when it had been offered to him, in march and june 2014. the complaints also contained a request for a medical examination and for his early release on health grounds. the government also answered the three questions which, in its letter of 17 october 2014, the court had asked them to refer to independent medical experts. in their response to the second question about the compatibility of the applicant’s state of health with the conditions of the correctional colony and prison hospital, the government emphasised that the applicant’s hospital employed the necessary specialists, and had the necessary equipment and drugs to treat him. 54 of the government of the russian federation. another examination of the applicant by the hospital medical panel had been scheduled for november 2014. the applicant informed the court that on 28 november 2014, acting upon his appeal, the chelyabinsk regional court had quashed the decision of 12 september 2014 and ordered his release. on an unspecified date after 28 november 2014 the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in izhevsk. on 27 august 2008 the police arrested the applicant in the street on suspicion of being drunk. he was taken to the police station where he was held for more than two hours. the police charged the applicant with public drunkenness and told him to pay a fine. further to a complaint by the applicant, on 8 december 2008 the pervomayskiy district court of izhevsk quashed the police decision, finding that the charge had not been supported by evidence. the applicant brought a claim for compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in connection with his arrest and detention. by a judgment of 16 november 2009, the pervomayskiy district court dismissed his claim. noting that the claim arising out of administrative detention fell outside the exhaustive list of examples of strict liability under article 1100 of the civil code, the court held that the lawful actions of the police officers could not give rise to liability in tort. it acknowledged that the applicant must have suffered frustration and anxiety as a result of his detention, but determined that his suffering had been “of no legal consequence”. on 3 march 2010 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the district court’s decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in gorodyshche prison. on 30 november 2008 the applicant, mr a.s. the applicant had four prior convictions for theft, burglary, robbery and carjacking. at around 9 p.m. on 5 december 2008 i.kot., the bruises on his wrists were soft and pink in colour. according to the report, the applicant explained to the expert that he had injured his face and hands when he fell trying to run away from the police. the applicant stated that on 29 november 2008 he had agreed with v.s.’s proposal to burgle mr n.’s home. afterwards the applicant kicked n. three or four times. he also took other valuables from the house. questioned on the same day as an accused, the applicant confirmed the account of events he had given on 6 december 2008 and added that he had seen v.s. hitting n. but not stabbing him. according to the government, on 6 february 2009 the applicant was familiarised with the medical expert’s report of 6 december 2008 and made no comments or requests. stated that it had been the applicant who had stabbed n.  in the course of a confrontation between the applicant and a.s., he refused to testify at length, but in response to a question stated that he had used a knife to cut the paintings out of their frames at the victims’ house. they largely reiterated the statements they had given during the pre-trial investigation concerning the applicant’s role in the crime, in particular stating that they had not stabbed n. and had seen the applicant, knife in hand and covered in blood, lead n., also covered in blood, to a safe to extract n.’s money. according to the government, the grounds for the refusal were that the trial court had in its possession the transcripts of the interviews with the police officers in question conducted during the pre-trial investigation. the lrpo indicated that the chervonograd prosecutor’s office should undertake a number of additional measures to establish the circumstances of the incident, most notably: (i) interview ms z. whom the applicant had been going to meet when he had been arrested; (ii) identify the ambulance staff who had visited the applicant on 6 december 2008 and interview them; (iii) interview the forensic medical expert to find out whether the injuries observed by the expert on the applicant on 6 december 2008 were consistent with the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. the decision was based on the statements of the police detectives and the expert report of 6 december 2010. on 15 march 2013 the chervonograd court granted the applicant’s claim and ordered the chervonograd prosecutor’s office to create an entry in the register of investigations in order to investigate the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. in the course of his arrest and on the way to the pustomyty police station, where his arrest had been recorded. as a result, he had sustained concussion and bruises.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in hamburg. the applicant is a civil servant working as a lawyer for the hamburg tax authorities. in this capacity he opened a bank account for the association. the account was used for the deposit of donations and membership fees. in 2003, a third person reported to the police that he had bought a watch via ebay. on 21 september 2004, upon a request of the prosecutor’s office of munich i, the munich district court issued a search warrant in respect of the applicant’s home (and the home of three other members of the “red aid” association who were authorised to draw on the association’s bank account) on suspicion that they had committed “copyright piracy” by selling fake goods such as watches and computer programmes. the search warrant authorised the search and seizure of computers and documents containing information about the sale of the fake watch and the computer programmes. the police found none of the items they were searching for. the amount and quality of the hashish was asserted by an expert. the amount was enough for 2606 consumption units. the munich district court and the munich i regional court dismissed the complaint. it would have been possible and necessary to take other investigative measures that would have interfered less with the applicant’s right before searching the applicant’s home. on 24 january 2006 the hamburg district court convicted the applicant of possession of a substantial amount of drugs in less serious circumstances and imposed a ten months’ suspended prison sentence. moreover, the seizure of the hashish had not even been covered by the unlawful search warrant. as he lived in a shared flat, the room, and hence the drugs, could have belonged to any of his flatmates. considering that it was legally unclear whether or not the court of appeal’s findings regarding the admissibility of the evidence found during the house search were binding on the lower courts, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. on 27 december 2006 the federal constitutional court rejected the complaint as inadmissible. in the resumed proceedings before the hamburg district court, the applicant made a statement that the room in which the hashish had been found was exclusively used by him. it took the view that, considering the seriousness of the crime of drug possession and the substantial amount of hashish found, the public interest in prosecution outweighed the applicant’s interest in respect for his home because the applicant’s rights had not been deliberately infringed, the house search had not been arbitrary and the amount of hashish found would theoretically have justified a house search. on 2 july 2009 the federal constitutional court dismissed the complaint (file no.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in suceava. at the relevant time, he was a journalist for a local newspaper monitorul de suceava (hereafter “the newspaper”). the article, accompanied by a photograph of s.a., as he has fled in order to avoid criminal investigation for the offence of aggravated theft, a general search has now been launched by the police (a fost dat în urmărire generală) and his photograph is now on the desk of the policemen of the judicial service [biroul judiciar] throughout the country. aged 35, is suspected of being one of the organisers of the burglary of the local headquarters of the governing party committed at the end of last year. the night before christmas eve 2002 was marked by bad luck for the psd in suceava, as thieves visited their headquarters. after checking inside, they realised there had been a burglary and that the thieves had stolen two televisions and approximately rol 17,000,000. who has been missing from his place of residence since that date. see photo) fled in order to avoid criminal investigation for the offence of aggravated theft and so a general search has been instituted and his photograph has been sent to judicial service police officers throughout the country. in a case where someone tries to avoid ‘getting nicked’ [pârnaie] by fleeing, despite being sought by the police, a countywide search is launched. if the person is not found within ninety days, the police launch a national search. following the publication of the article, the father of s.a. my wish would be to have the article retracted.” this letter was published in the newspaper on 29 august 2003. the letter was published unedited, but nothing else was done since then. considered that the article contained serious allegations which considerably affected his public image, causing him personal suffering. on 17 october 2003, the head of the police department of suceava informed the first-instance court that:“in response to your letter in which you enquire whether on 25 august 2003 a general search order was outstanding against s.a. ... 124000 of the general inspectorate of the romanian police a general search order was issued in respect of this person as he was attempting to avoid criminal investigation while under suspicion of theft. the court stated in its reasoning the following:“even though there is no mens rea as far as the offence of defamation provided for in article 206 of the criminal code is concerned, given the source of information at the date of the publishing of the article, the defendant’s obligation to pay compensation to the civil party cannot be set aside. this is because following the discovery of the error he did not publish a retraction in order to try to rectify it.
the applicants were employed by hk komgrap ad komgrap-makiš doo, a company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). at the relevant time, the company was predominantly socially-owned. since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicants brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions. on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicants certain sums in respect of salary arrears and various social security contributions. this judgment became final and enforceable on 25 july 2005. on 26 september 2005 the applicants applied to the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) for enforcement of the judgment of 23 june 2003. on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicants the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings. the government maintained that the debtor had been sold in 2007 to a private company. the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that had been privatised in 2007. the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 22 july 2010 and had been terminated on 10 june 2013. the applicants disagreed and claimed that it was, in fact, a different company that went into bankruptcy in 2013. in their additional observations the government submitted that bankruptcy proceedings had been instituted in respect of the debtor on 24 july 2013 and had been terminated on 8 november 2013 when the decision to institute bankruptcy proceedings had been quashed. on 27 october 2010 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicants had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court, however, did not award them compensation for non-pecuniary damage, finding that only the period after the applicants had continued the enforcement proceedings following the death of their relatives (on 9 july 2013 and 15 may 2013, respectively) could be taken into account. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicants had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicants were entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 800 each, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement. the constitutional court held that since the enforcement proceedings in question had not yet been completed, the constitutional appeals were premature in so far as they concerned pecuniary damage, and dismissed the appeals in that regard.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in murmansk. the applicant sued the local office of the pension fund, claiming that her monthly pension had been miscalculated. on 12 september 2003 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk granted her claim and ordered that the pension due to the applicant be recalculated and increased. no appeal was lodged against that judgment and on 23 september 2003 it became final and enforceable. on 11 august 2005 the pervomayskiy district court of murmansk quashed the judgment of 12 september 2003 and reopened the proceedings after an application by the respondent authority on the grounds that new circumstances had come to light. on 23 august 2005 the same court rejected the applicant’s pension recalculation claim.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in chisinau. in january 2008 the balti police organised an undercover operation with the purpose of apprehending a criminal group specialised in the production and circulation of forged documents. according to the applicant, at that time he was interested in leaving moldova for romania or another country in the european union in order to find a job. he was therefore interested in obtaining a romanian passport which would facilitate his plans. both men agreed to let each other know in the event that one of them found an easy way of obtaining a romanian passport. both d. and z. confirmed during the subsequent court proceedings that it was d. who had recommended z. to the applicant in march 2008. it appears from the materials of the case-file that approximately three weeks after the applicant’s first meeting with e., the latter called him to find out whether he had progressed in his search for a way of obtaining a romanian passport. this was submitted by the applicant in the proceedings and not contested by the prosecution. the applicant accepted e.’s proposal and agreed to arrange a meeting with t. 10. this information was contested by z. during proceedings, who stated that he had informed the applicant from the very beginning that t.’s romanian identity card was going to be false and that he was to avoid travelling to romania with it. on 3 april 2008 the applicant met with t. and obtained from him the necessary documents and an advance of eur 750 for which he had written and submitted to t. a receipt. on 16 april 2008 the applicant met with t. and gave him the identity card in exchange for the rest of the money. on 17 april 2008 an official criminal investigation was initiated against the applicant on charges of manufacturing and trading with forged official documents. in the meantime, z. signed an agreement with the prosecutors acknowledging his guilt and was convicted on the basis of that agreement and given a suspended sentence of four years. during the appeal proceedings, the applicant asked again that e. and t. be heard in court. initially the court of appeal agreed to hear them; however, later it decided otherwise. on 4 march 2009 the balti court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and confirmed the judgment of the first instance court. the court examined the applicant’s argument concerning entrapment and dismissed it on the sole ground that it was the applicant who had first telephoned the number indicated in the newspaper advertisement. moreover, according to the law, they could not be heard unless they agreed to that. on 8 july 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the previous judgments.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in shadrinsk. on 20 august 2003 the shadrinsk town court of the kurgan region convicted him of murder and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. on 29 october 2003 the kurgan regional court upheld the conviction on appeal. the applicant is hiv-positive and at the material time also suffered from tuberculosis and hepatitis. according to the applicant, the wards were severely overcrowded. for instance, ward 25 measured approximately 80 square metres, was equipped with fifteen two-tier bunk beds and housed twenty-seven inmates. passages between the beds, lengthwise, were as narrow as fifty centimetres and were used by four inmates. the wards were poorly lit as the windows were covered with louvre shutters blocking access to natural light. according to the government, ward 24 measured 61.49 square metres, had sixteen sleeping places and accommodated up to sixteen inmates. finally, ward 28 measured 49.4 square metres and accommodated fifteen inmates. the applicant was provided with an individual sleeping place at all times. it indicated, in particular, that windows in all wards were fitted with metal louvre shutters. on 9 february 2009 the medical facility authorities issued an order introducing visiting fees for inmates and their families. on 14 april 2009 the director of the federal service for the execution of sentences sent a letter to the heads of russian penal facilities, reminding them that charging visitors and detainees for family visits was in breach of article 89 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 17 below) and that facility administrations must bear the costs of providing rooms for long-term visits. only additional services are payable by detainees in accordance with the internal regulations of correctional facilities (see paragraph 20 below). on 22 april 2009 the applicant was authorised to see his two daughters on a long-term family visit. he calculated that a three-day visit from them would cost rub 1,920, which was far beyond their means. his daughters did visit him, but stayed only one day instead of the expected three, as they did not have enough money on them to stay any longer. on 22 august 2009 the applicant’s daughters visited their father again, this time free of charge. it was handed over to him in an open envelope and he was told to sign a copy which had been attached to his personal file.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in chisinau. at the time of the events in question, the applicant was a high-ranking police officer. on 26 march 2008 he was arrested on suspicion of being part of a criminal gang specialised in the smuggling of heroin through moldova to the european union. his arrest took place as a result of the seizure of a large quantity of heroin in chişinău. he was indicted with the offence of circulating large quantities of narcotics, an offence provided for in article 217/1 of the criminal code and punishable with seven to twenty years of imprisonment. on 5 september 2008 the criminal investigation into the circumstances of the case was completed and the case was referred to a trial court for determination. on 21 october 2009 the applicant was found guilty of having committed other offences than that for which he had been put in detention on remand and sentenced to five years and nine months’ imprisonment. the offences of which the applicant was found guilty concerned negligence, abuse of power and aiding and abetting in the commission of an offence. between his arrest and his sentencing the applicant was detained on remand. all of the applicant’s habeas corpus requests were dismissed. the applicant was detained in two detention facilities. between his arrest and 17 november 2008 he was detained in solitary confinement at the detention facility of the centre for fighting economic crime and corruption (cfecc) and between 17 november 2008 and 21 june 2010 he was held in prison no. according to the applicant, the conditions of detention in prison no. 13 were tantamount to inhuman and degrading treatment. in particular, the cells were dirty and overcrowded. in the cell in which the applicant was detained, each inmate had only 2.5 square metres of available space. the food was of a very poor quality, the inmates smoked, and he was held along with detainees convicted of violent crimes who threatened him with violence on account of his status as a police officer. the inmates were not provided with bed linen and the cell was infected with vermin. they recommended he be hospitalised for in-patient treatment. his request was rejected on grounds which were not communicated to the court by the parties.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in chișinău. the applicant’s diagnosis was, inter alia, personality disorder. the search lasted for approximately half an hour. one prison officer recorded the events on video. his reading glasses fell to the ground and were smashed by one of the masked men. on 6 december 2006 a prosecutor from the chișinău military prosecutor’s office decided not to start a criminal investigation into the complaints made by the applicant and other detainees. the prosecutor noted that the applicant and four other detainees in cell no. 20 had confirmed, in their complaints and statements made to the investigator during the criminal investigation, that the masked men who had entered the cell on 28 october 2006 had caused great disorder, had insulted the detainees, and had hit them with rubber truncheons. according to the statement of detainee s.b., one detainee, (v.s.), who had been taking his daily exercise during the search, confirmed seeing upon his return great disorder in the cell, with all the food and personal items broken up and thrown to the ground, and the detainees cleaning up the mess and complaining about being hit during the search. 13, stated that after the search on 28 october 2006 he saw disorder in cell no. later on the applicant complained of pain in his foot and was taken to the emergency hospital, from which he returned with his foot in plaster. he was then taken to hospital by ambulance and returned with his foot in plaster. he then told her that he had been hit by the officers during the search. 13, on 28 october 2006 at 5 p.m he saw the applicant, who complained that he had been beaten up earlier, during the search. he had not witnessed any disorder or violence towards the detainees. the last scene showed the cell door being closed. someone could be heard hitting the door from the inside and the applicant’s voice shouting “i’m going to kill myself, i’m going to cut myself” and “where is the map with documents, they took my map with documents”. on 10 march 2008 the deputy prosecutor general quashed the decision of 15 february 2008 and ordered a more thorough investigation. however, the investigating judge did not have the competence to evaluate evidence in a criminal or civil trial.
mr gerardo menéndez garcía (“the first applicant”) was born in 1964 and lives in gargantada (langreo). mr sigifredo álvarez gonzález (“the second applicant”) was born in 1956 and lives in sant jordi de cercs (barcelona). on 2000 the applicants acted as intermediary (purchase agent) in the sale of three cars, sold to a company. as a result of this sale, on 20 november 2000 criminal investigations were instituted by the gijón no. 1 investigating judge against the applicants and other eight suspects for fraud and forgery of documents. on 16 april 2001 and 18 april 2001, respectively, the applicants were detained, charged with document forgery and informed about the rights they were entitled as detainees. they were subsequently interrogated by the guardia civil in the presence of their lawyer. on 8 november 2004 the judge issued a decision (auto) ordering the initiation of oral proceedings (apertura de juicio oral) and set the complete file to the asturias audiencia provincial. on 6 may 2009 the hearings before the asturias audiencia provincial took place. on 5 june 2009 the asturias audiencia provincial sentenced the first applicant to a three years and six months’ imprisonment, and the second applicant to a five years’ imprisonment for fraud and document forgery. the asturias audiencia provincial refused the applicants’ request to reduce the sentence in view of the undue delay of proceedings, as prescribed in article 21 of the criminal code. the asturias audiencia provincial acknowledged that the proceedings had been “unusually” long, but this was due to the complexity of the case, namely the difficulties in gathering evidences within different jurisdictions, the great number of parties involved, the difficulty faced when trying to notify some of the defendants, as well as the applicants’ conduct, whose lawyers had lacked celerity in presenting their submissions. the applicants lodged a cassation appeal before the supreme court. on 27 may 2010 the supreme court partially ruled in favour of the applicants and sentenced them both to three years and eight months’ imprisonment for fraud. however, the supreme court rejected the claims of undue delay of proceedings. the supreme court considered that even though the proceedings might have appeared excessively long, the asturias audiencia provincial had provided a sounded and detailed justification for the duration of the proceedings. both applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court complaining, inter alia, about the undue length of the proceedings. by two decisions of 20 may 2011 and 12 september 2011, respectively (served on 25 may 2011 and 23 september 2011), the constitutional court declared both appeals inadmissible on the grounds that they lacked the constitutional relevance provided for in article 50 § 1 b) of the organic law on the constitutional court.
the applicant is a limited liability company registered under hungarian law, with its seat in budapest. on 24 november 1998 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against two companies requesting the court to declare invalid a real estate sale and purchase agreement concluded between these two companies. the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 26 february 2004. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal quashed the judgment on 5 november 2004. the first-instance court re-heard the case and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 13 october 2005. on appeal, the second-instance court upheld the judgment on 9 november 2006. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court which quashed it on 13 september 2007. in the resumed proceedings the budapest court of appeal quashed, on 20 march 2008, the first-instance court’s judgment. on 18 march 2009 the budapest regional court as first‑instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment on 17 december 2009. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail. the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 13 september 2010 (served on 27 october 2010).
the applicant, mr mikhail novruk, is a moldovan national who was born in 1972. he is represented before the court by ms i. khrunova, a lawyer practising in kazan. in 2001, a boy was born to their union; he acquired russian nationality by birth. he acquired russian nationality by birth. by a letter of 25 may 2009 the federal migration service refused her application by reference to section 7 § 1 (13) of the foreign nationals act and ordered her to leave russia within fifteen days or face deportation. on 8 february 2011 the moscow city court dismissed ms kravchenko’s appeal against the district court’s judgment, finding that “there were no grounds to vary the judgment, because the moscow division of the federal migration service had actually complied with it”. in 2005, mr khalupa married ms e., a russian national. in a letter of 5 may 2011 addressed to the deputy director of the visas and registration department of the federal migration service, the director of the legal department acknowledged that the decision of 4 june 2008 had not taken fully into account mr khalupa’s family ties in russia. in 1966 her parents took ms ostrovskaya and her sister to live in the uzbek soviet socialist republic of the ussr. during a medical examination she tested hiv-positive. by decision of 17 january 2012, the samara division of the federal migration service refused her application for residence permit by reference to section 7 § 1 (13) of the foreign nationals act, and informed her accordingly. on 27 march 2012 a further notification to the same effect was sent by the federal migration service. they have maintained a common household, shared expenses and travelled together. submitted copies of travel documents and family photographs. ’s hiv-positive status could not on its own be a ground for a restriction on his rights. had been infected with hiv and had avoided treatment. it cited in evidence medical certificates dated 16 april and 25 december 2012. on 19 february 2014 the sverdlovsk regional court refused leave to appeal to the cassation instance. was lawfully present in russia, whether or not he was continuing his studies, and whether his representative before the court mr x could have been his partner. he was interviewed about “the exercise by v.v.
from 1996 onwards the applicant, a former police officer discharged for health reasons, enjoyed disability benefits under the labour disablement insurance act (wet op de arbeidsongeschiktheidsverzekering – “wao”). this he did by running a one-man business as a trainer teaching people how to deal with stress. the applicant states that he never received any reply. in september 1999 the applicant’s business was transformed into a limited liability company. the applicant was its managing director and its only employee; he entered its employ on 1 october 1999. according to the report, the applicant had defrauded the social-security system by declaring only his own income as an employee of the limited liability company but not the company’s profits, which were declared as taxable income by his wife. the labour expert (arbeidsdeskundige) mr g. has stated that he discussed this extensively with gillissen, who could agree to that position and who indicated during the conversation that in the coming years more growth was to be expected and that it was his intention to make his own living in self-employment with a corresponding gradual reduction to zero (afbouw) of the wao benefits.” on 28 january 2004 uwv gave a decision reducing the applicant’s wao benefits with retroactive effect. on 3 march 2004 uwv gave a second decision ordering the applicant to repay the excess. as relevant to the case before the court, the applicant argued that as from 1999 he had kept the competent authorities informed of developments as they occurred, withholding no information, and invoked the arrangement which he had agreed with mr g. he named mr s. as a witness. the applicant lodged an appeal (beroep) with the roermond regional court (rechtbank). he asked for them both to be heard as a witness in order to prove the existence of the agreement. he did not, however, himself summon mr g. and mr s. as witnesses by registered letter or bailiff’s writ. the central appeals tribunal held a hearing on 8 august 2008. the applicant did not bring mr g. and mr s. along but restated his request to have them heard as witnesses. the applicant and uwv waived the right to a further hearing. in response to a question by the court, the applicant acknowledged that he had made no attempt to summon mr g. and mr s. himself or bring them along to the hearing of either the regional court or the central appeals tribunal, as permitted by section 8:60(4) of the general administrative law act (algemene wet bestuursrecht; see paragraph 25 below). in parallel with the administrative proceedings outlined above, the applicant was prosecuted for social security fraud and forgery. on 20 january 2006 the single-judge chamber of the criminal division (politierechter) of the roermond regional court convicted the applicant. the suspect understood these arrangements in the sense that he would in principle be allowed to earn unlimited additional income without losing his benefits.
the applicant was born in 1997 and lives in deva. were about the same age as the applicant. had threatened that he would beat her if she told anyone. who was under fourteen and hence not criminally liable. on 11 march 2009 a forensic report found that no traces of violence had been detected on the applicant’s body. to have sex with him on several occasions, alleging that he had threatened that he would beat her if she told anyone. declared that he had had sex with the applicant in the autumn of 2008. declared that he had had sex with the applicant once in april and then again in october 2008. they all declared that it was the applicant who had taken the initiative each time and that it had happened because she displayed a provocative attitude, being scantily dressed most of the time. each brother stated that the applicant had told him that she had had sex before, either with one of the other brothers or with j.v. and that they had never seen him taking the applicant by force while they were playing. on 10 december 2009 the prosecutor’s office of the hunedoara county court issued an indictment decision with respect to j.v. for the crime of sexual intercourse with a minor on repeated occasions. were given administrative fines for the same crime. from the statements of the perpetrators and the two sisters, the prosecutor held as proved the fact that the applicant had gone to the neighbours’ house scantily dressed and had had a sexual relationship with j.v. she was afraid of him because he could become violent when he was drunk. the deva district court firstly observed that the forensic certificate stated that no signs of violence had been detected on the victim’s body. at the time when the accused had sexual intercourse with the victim, she was eleven years old. based on these testimonies and the fact that the victim had not told her parents about the alleged abuse, the court drew the conclusion that the instances of sexual intercourse had always been initiated by the applicant and dismissed the theory that the victim might have lacked capacity to express her will. the findings of the forensic psychiatric report of 7 july 2009 were not mentioned or discussed in any way by the court.
between 2005 and 2006 the applicants successfully sued the authorities for miscalculating social benefits. on various dates the supervisory review courts quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour after applications by the defendant authorities, considering that the lower courts had misapplied substantive or procedural law (for more details see the appendix). on 3 july 1986 the applicant was sentenced to three and a half years’ imprisonment. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an application with the sovetskiy district court, claiming 3,973,578 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on the grounds of wrongful prosecution. on 24 may 1999 the sovetskiy district court allowed the applicant’s claim in part, awarding him rub 43,568 in compensation for unpaid salary, the confiscation of his car, and judicial costs and expenses. on an unspecified date the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings against the ministry of finance, claiming compensation for wrongful prosecution in 1997. on 27 july 2006 the leninskiy district court granted the applicant’s claim in full and awarded him rub 761,815 in compensation for unpaid salary; the confiscation of his car and other property; rent for his flat; travel expenses; and judicial costs and expenses. no appeal against the judgment was lodged and it became final. on 1 february 2007 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed that judgment by way of supervisory review on the grounds that the same issue had already been decided by the judgment of 24 may 1999 and that there had been no grounds to examine the complaint a second time.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in london. the applicant and his wife divorced on 27 august 2004. on 6 july 2005 the applicant’s former wife issued an application for him to be committed to prison for breach of the undertaking and injunction. he heard the applications on 26 and 27 july 2005. his position as regards legal aid was due to be reviewed shortly after the hearing. he subsequently obtained legal aid and legal representation to pursue those proceedings. such proceedings concerned a “criminal charge” for the purpose of article 6 of the convention and the defendant therefore benefited from the right to legal assistance set out in article 6 § 3 (c). in the applicant’s case, moses lj observed that these matters had not been drawn to the attention of the judge. this emerged at the outset of the cross-examination by counsel for mrs hammerton on the second day of the hearing.” he was of the view that the judge had been obliged to ask appropriate questions and to consider, at the very outset of the hearing, whether there should be an adjournment so as to enable the defendant to be represented. the applicant should have been warned that he did not need to give evidence; he received no such warning. he noted that the judge never paused, even at that stage, to consider whether the applicant should have legal representation or to remind himself of the relevant principles. there was ample material to suggest that legal representation would have made a difference. there are, of course, many cases in the books in which this court has upheld committal orders even although they have been made in proceedings which were procedurally flawed ... provided the contemnor has had a fair trial and the order has been made on valid grounds, the existence of a defect in the committal application or in the order served will not result in it being set aside except in so far as the interests of justice require that to be done ... 36. on 25 february 2009 the high court dismissed his claim and refused the extension of time. blake j noted at the outset that the court of appeal had identified three main errors in the applicant’s case: the failure to inquire into why he was not represented and to consider whether to adjourn the committal proceedings to enable him to obtain representation; the joinder of the committal proceedings and the contact order application, which undermined the burden of proof and the applicant’s right not to give evidence in the committal proceedings; and the fact that he was not given the opportunity to mitigate before sentence was passed. the applicant’s claim accordingly failed. 25277/94 and others, 12 october 1999 and lloyd and others v. the united kingdom, nos. the applicant sought leave to appeal out of time. on 27 august 2009 leave to appeal was refused on the papers.
the applicants were born in 1985 and live in vanadzor and gyumri, armenia. the questioning was carried out by investigators a.h. chiefs of the third and fourth battalions, e.m. for questioning as a witness in connection with the murders. 10724 in yerevan in order to carry out a number of investigative measures with their participation.” the applicants alleged that the above-mentioned lawyers had been invited to join the case by the investigators of the military prosecutor’s office and their involvement in the case was merely a formality and amounted to the signing of records and other documents in order to create an appearance of lawfulness. admitted at the hearing that he and the others had beaten the two fellow servicemen, but had no intention of killing them. on 11 may 2004 the second applicant addressed a letter to the military prosecutor of armenia in which he retracted his confession, claiming that he and the other two applicants had nothing to do with the murder. by a letter of 10 june 2004 the military prosecutor informed the first applicant and his lawyer, in reply to their complaints, that:“the first investigative measures involving [the applicants] were carried out on 21 april 2004 at the martakert garrison military prosecutor’s office where they were questioned as witnesses. on 29 and 30 june 2004 the second applicant was questioned again. when ill-treated, he was being ordered to tell the truth. it appears that the second and third applicants were also subjected to medical examinations and no injuries were recorded. the following record was made in the first applicant’s medical file:“since 11 august 2004 the patient has been on hunger strike and under constant medical observation ...” 68. on 1 june 2005 the applicants lodged an appeal against the judgment of the syunik regional court. submitted that the applicants had been admitted to the arrest facility when he was on duty. by a letter of 26 december 2005 the general prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that, during the court examination of the criminal case against them, the syunik regional court, guided by article 17 § 4 of the ccp, had taken the necessary measures to verify the statements alleging that they had been subjected by the investigators to coercion during the investigation, and found them to be unsubstantiated in its judgment of 18 may 2005. who had visited him in detention together with his father on 26 april 2004. military police officer m. stated that he had been absent from the stepanakert military police department during the period when the applicants were taken there and he had never encountered them. for more than four years they had consistently raised their allegations of ill-treatment and indicated the names of the perpetrators but no effective investigation had ever been carried out. according to the applicants, a number of former servicemen of their military unit and also a few civilians testified during the trial that they had been locked up during various periods at the beginning of 2004 at the martakert garrison military prosecutor’s office and the stepanakert military police department and questioned in connection with the murders.
on 11 may 1995 the fier commission recognised the applicant’s and other heirs’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 55,200 sq. it also decided that the commission would decide on the compensation of the remaining plot at a further moment. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a civil action seeking the vacation of the property, which was occupied by third parties. the parties failed to provide information about the progress of this set of proceedings. it would appear that the proceedings are pending. on 19 january 2000 the tirana commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 10,600 sq. on 14 april 2008 the applicants requested that unoccupied plots measuring 3,142 sq. m, situated within the plot measuring 10,600 sq. on 3 december 2008 the tirana commission rejected their application since the plot of land was occupied. to date, no compensation has been paid in respect of the plot of land measuring 10,600 sq. m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. on 19 august 2014 mr erol hasa, a macedonian national, expressed his wish to pursue the proceedings on his father’s behalf (see paragraph 3 above). he submitted an english translation of a notarised document, which recognised him as the sole testamentary heir in respect of the property situated in elbasan. the original document, no copy of which was submitted to the court, appears to have been issued by a notary of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. that document has not been recognised by the albanian authorities in accordance with the albanian law. on 25 october 1995 the gjirokastër commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 4,527 sq. m was occupied, the applicants would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. since the remaining plot measuring 201,244 sq. on 22 december 2007 the agency decided to award financial compensation to the applicants in respect of 200 sq. m, situated within the city boundaries (vijës së verdhë të qytetit), of which 5,000 sq.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a sentence in prison no. on 13 november 2001, in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant was questioned in the context of the robbery proceedings. during the questioning, the applicant, apart from giving information on the robberies, reiterated his statements regarding the shooting which had occurred in yevpatoriya. on 13 december 2001 the applicant was charged with premeditated armed robbery as part of a criminal group. he pleaded not guilty as charged and refused to give further testimonies. on 18 november 2002 amended charges were brought against the applicant and he was questioned again. the decision to do so was not amenable to appeal. on 29 april 2004 the supreme court heard the applicant’s appeal in the presence of the prosecutor. on 20 august 2004, in the presence of his lawyer, amended charges were brought against the applicant. on an unspecified date, the applicant lodged a request for release with the court of appeal. on 6 october 2005 the court of appeal, having acquitted the applicant on four of the eight charges for lack of proof, found him guilty of banditry, several counts of armed robbery, intentional murder and attempted murder. it sentenced him to life imprisonment with confiscation of all his property. in the part of the judgment which concerns the murder charges, the court referred, in particular, to the “testimonies given by the applicant as a suspect and an accused, including in the presence of a lawyer”. in addition, the court of appeal gave a separate ruling by which it declared inadmissible a number of pieces of evidence related to different charges against the applicant and his co-defendants, as the evidence had been obtained in violation of the defendants’ rights of defence. it held that, even though the applicant had allegedly confessed to murdering five people shortly after his arrest, he had nevertheless been questioned as a witness, in the absence of a lawyer. he submitted that his cell had been overcrowded: it had measured 16 square metres, contained eight beds for ten people, and detainees had had to take turns to sleep. the governor further informed her that, according to medical documents concerning k., g., k.i., in kharkiv sizo the applicant was held in cells nos. there was natural ventilation and light through windows; artificial lighting allowed inmates to read and write without damaging their eyesight. the temperature in the cells was between 18oc and 20oc.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in burgas. at about 6 a.m. on 11 july 2007 several police officers visited the applicant’s home with a summons for him to report to the police station in the neighbouring town of pomorie “as a witness” in relation to an investigation. the applicant alleged that he was not at home at the time and that he was alerted by phone by his wife. on the summons, on the other hand, it is noted that he refused to accept receipt. at about 7 a.m. the applicant arrived at the pomorie police station. he was notified that he was being detained under section 63(1)(1) of the ministry of internal affairs act (“the miaa”, see paragraph 15 below). during his detention, the applicant was transported to a police station in burgas and then back to the police station in pomorie, where his fingerprints were taken. he was not interviewed, and no further investigative steps involving his participation were taken. at about 12 a.m. the applicant was allowed to meet with a lawyer retained by his wife, who insisted that the police release him. the applicant was released shortly after that, at 1.30 p.m. on 11 july 2007. immediately after his release the applicant applied for judicial review of the detention order. in the framework of the ensuing proceedings the police presented an order dated 10 july 2007 and signed by a police investigator in pomorie. they stated that the case file concerning the applicant contained no further documents. the order stated that a theft had been committed by an unknown person in a hotel in pomorie and instructed the police to take the appropriate measures to search for the perpetrator. the burgas administrative court heard the case on 28 november 2007. it accepted the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph as evidence. in a judgment of 21 december 2007 it upheld the detention order, holding that the applicant’s detention had been in accordance with the law. it found, in particular, that for the lawful application of section 63(1)(1) of the miaa it was not necessary that the police should hold evidence showing “in an unqualified manner” that the detainee had committed an offence; data “justifying a suspicion that there was a probability that the person had committed an offence” was sufficient. the domestic court noted further that the police had operational freedom as to the application of section 63(1)(1) of the miaa. on appeal by the applicant, on 17 november 2008 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the burgas administrative court, reiterating its reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in baku. human rights club was established in december 2010 and has made several unsuccessful attempts to obtain state registration by the ministry of justice in order to obtain legal entity status under domestic law. the applicant has collaborated with other ngos in azerbaijan on various projects. the applicant has been involved in the preparation of various reports relating to human rights issues in azerbaijan. he was informed that he could not leave the country because a travel ban had been imposed on him on 25 july 2014. the description of charges consisted of a single sentence which was one page long. he was accused of acquiring profit, “by paying money to himself and other people involved in the projects in the guise of salaries and service fees” in the amount of 147,900.85 azerbaijani new manats (azn), having acquired that money through, “illegal entrepreneurial activity in respect of grants which, as an official, he had failed to register with the relevant executive authority, even though he had a professional obligation to do so”. on 4 august 2014 the prosecutor general’s office made a public statement which noted that the applicant had been charged under articles 192.2.2, 213.1 and 308.2 of the criminal code because there was a suspicion that he had committed the criminal offences set out in the above‑mentioned articles. on 4 august 2014 the applicant appealed against the detention order. on 8 august 2014 the baku court of appeal upheld the detention order of 2 august 2014 without addressing any of the applicant’s arguments. among other things, the applicant highlighted the factual circumstances which supported his argument for less restrictive measures, including the fact that he had returned to the country from kyiv knowing that he was under investigation and had complied with all orders to produce documents and appear for questioning, and that he, as a human rights defender, was a respected public figure with strong ties to the community. the applicant’s criminal trial began in january 2015. around the time of the applicant’s arrest and thereafter, the same newspaper and online news portals affiliated with the authorities published a number of pejorative articles calling the applicant an “american agent”, with headlines such as “american agent rasul jafarov detained for three months”, “the rights of rasul jafarov, another agent, limited”, and “search of the flat of american agent rasul jafarov”. the organisations which have allocated grants to them in non-transparent ways, directing them into various activities, including those against azerbaijan. these people, some of whom are traitors and some weak-minded, will finally answer before the law.” in an interview published on 2 september 2014 y.m., capital punishment must be the gravest punishment for them. in november 2014 disciplinary proceedings were instituted against mr bagirov by the aba on the basis of a letter dated 25 september 2014 from a judge of the shaki court of appeal. ədalətsiz və qərəzli hökm çıxarmaz, nə də onun kimisi hakim işləməzdi”). on 29 march 2015 mr bagirov sent a letter to the head of the prison service of the ministry of justice asking for a meeting with six of his clients who were held in detention, including the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in plovdiv. in the beginning of 2002 the applicant began to experience pain in the left side of her chest, for which in february 2002 she underwent a bone scintigraphy. another bone scintigraphy in may 2002 confirmed that finding. he told her that the suspected metastasis was very small, could not be localised visually, and had to be precisely localised before any surgery. however, he reassured her that the available imaging results were sufficient. a computerised axial tomography scan carried out the same month found that parts of the fourth and fifth left ribs had been removed and that the sixth left rib was fractured. in late 2003 the applicant complained about the operation to the ministry of health. the ministry ordered the plovdiv regional health inspectorate to carry out an inquiry and, based on its findings, on 23 january 2004 informed the applicant that in view of the inconclusive results of the medical imaging tests, the operating team had chosen to make a wide opening in the thorax, enabling them to inspect the left side of the thoracic wall from the fourth to the ninth ribs. the reference to the eighth and ninth ribs in the operation report had been a clerical mistake. and the hospital in which he was employed, a state-owned limited liability company. however, on 5 january 2005 the court, finding that the applicant had not specified whether her preferred defendant was dr k.m. or the hospital, reopened the proceedings and instructed her to do so. on 26 october 2005 the court heard the new expert, including his answers to questions put by counsel for the applicant. he explained in detail why he stood by his conclusions. the fact that the histological test had later showed otherwise had not retrospectively rendered his assessment flawed. furthermore, the evidence did not categorically prove that the applicant still had a metastasis in her sixth left rib, especially bearing in mind the lack of other metastases after the operation. the applicant appealed to the plovdiv court of appeal. the other two experts expressed the same views as those set out in the thoracic surgeon’s supplementary report (see paragraph 31 above), and came to the conclusion that the operation had been required and that the operating team had not acted out of line with good medical practice. on an unknown later date in 2006 the plovdiv court of appeal upheld the lower court’s judgment. the applicant again attempted to appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1949 in the khabarovsk region. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. on 28 july 2006 the stavropol regional court found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to nineteen years’ imprisonment in a correctional colony. when the applicant arrived at the colony the resident doctor noted that he had a first-degree disability: he was totally blind as a result of mature cataracts in both eyes. his blindness, which had developed during his detention, meant that he was unable to move around alone. he was included on a list of detainees requiring enhanced medical attention. the applicant was assigned to colony unit no. 10 for special-needs detainees, which comprised a separate dormitory. a large part of the dormitory floor area was taken up by furniture such as bunk beds, bedside tables and chairs. as is apparent from the documents and photographs submitted by the government, the premises were not adapted for visually impaired or blind persons. he regularly stumbled over objects, slipped and fell. on 21 february 2011 and 19 november 2012 a medical commission confirmed the applicant’s disability. they recommended that the authorities provide him with a walking stick, a white cane, a player for audiobooks designed for blind people, a vocal clinical thermometer and a vocal tonometer. in september 2014 the inmate who had been assisting the applicant was released from detention and the applicant was left to fend for himself. according to a certificate issued by the authorities, he refused the assistance of other inmates. relying on the conclusion of the medical commission, the applicant lodged an application with the kochubeevskoe district court, stavropol region, for release on health grounds. on 16 april 2013 the district court dismissed the application. 21 of the supreme court of russia dated 20 december 2011 (see paragraph 26 below), the court noted that the fact that the applicant’s illness was included in the list provided for by government decree no. 54 did not automatically mean that he would be released. the court cited the gravity of the crimes committed by the applicant and the length of the prison term he had yet to serve.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in fontanelas. he is one of the most well-known television hosts in portugal and is currently the host of a morning talk show. he has worked in the media for almost forty years. he publicly declared his homosexuality in 2008. between midnight and 1 a.m. on 28 december 2009, a live talk show, five minutes to midnight (5 para a meia-noite) was broadcast on one of the channels of the national television service, rtp2. and featured two famous people from the media as guests. the possible answers to the question included the name of three female television hosts and the applicant’s; the latter being the “correct” one. who is the best female portuguese tv host? i will obviously exclude option a, definitely. from the other three, i think they are all gorgeous. she was the one telling me not to say it, that it could be bad.” and the directors of programming and content. on an unspecified date the applicant sought to intervene in the proceedings as an assistant to the public prosecutor (assistente) and lodged private prosecution submissions (acusação particular) with the lisbon criminal investigation court (tribunal de instrução criminal) against the defendants. they challenged his prosecution submissions by requesting that a judicial investigation be opened (requerimento de abertura de instrução). in relation to the individual defendants, the judge decided that there was insufficient evidence of any defamation and insults by them, thus the case was unable to be brought to trial. nor did they anticipate this as possible. the [assistente] is a public figure and so must be used to having his characteristics captured by comedians in order to promote humour; it being public knowledge that [the applicant’s characteristics] reflect behaviour that is attributed to the female gender, such as his way of expressing himself, his colourful [feminine] clothes, and the fact that he has always lived in a world of women (see, for example, the programmes he has always presented on television). the [assistente] has recently made his homosexuality public, and the defendants never intended to criticise his sexual orientation ...”with regard to the two defendant companies, the proceedings were discontinued pursuant to article 11 of the criminal code, which excludes “legal persons” from liability for defamation and insult. the applicant appealed against the decision not to indict the natural defendants before the lisbon court of appeal (tribunal da relação de lisboa). on 17 april 2012 the appeal was dismissed.
the applicant was born in 1978 and until his arrest lived in krasnoyarsk. he is currently serving a sentence in a correctional colony in the krasnoyarsk region. on 27 december 2007 the krasnoyarsk regional court found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to twenty-four years and eleven months’ imprisonment. on 24 december 2008 the supreme court of russia upheld his conviction and sentence on appeal. on 16 june 2007 the prison doctor saw the applicant after he complained of stomach pain and deteriorating eyesight. he noted that a specific endoscopy was to be performed. multiple tests performed there led to him being diagnosed with first-stage myopia, a duodenal ulcer in remission and duodenitis associated with cicatricial deformation of the duodenum bulb. in october 2009 the applicant’s stomach pain came back. the resident doctor saw him in october 2009 and january 2010, prescribing him drug treatment and a special diet. the applicant’s medical records do not contain any information indicating that the doctor’s recommendations were followed. on 19 march 2010 the applicant underwent an in-depth medical examination in the prison hospital. according to the applicant, the recommendation was not followed by the authorities. at the end of that month the applicant was examined in a civilian hospital, which diagnosed him with an aggravated ulcer and acute gastritis. the resident doctor prescribed drug treatment in december 2010 and january and march 2011. in the beginning of 2012 the applicant underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain and spine in a civilian hospital. these diagnoses were confirmed by the prison doctor, who found that the applicant’s condition did not call for surgical treatment. he nevertheless took the medication prescribed for gastritis treatment. tests showed that his conditions had not progressed. he was put on a list of detainees for close medical supervision. they were given to the applicant as prescribed.
the first applicant, partners 2000 kft, is a hungarian limited liability company with its seat in nyárliget. it is owned and run by the second applicant. the second applicant is a hungarian national, who was born in 1972 and lives in sopron. the third applicant is the second applicant’s wife, who was born in 1973 and lives in sopron. the fourth applicant is the second and third applicants’ minor child, born in 2000. on 11 september 2012 parliament enacted act no. cxxxiv of 2012 on the repression of smoking of the youth and on tobacco retail. the act was published on 24 september 2012. according to the act, tobacco retail was to become a state monopoly (exercised through a state-owned company, nd nemzeti dohánykereskedelmi nonprofit zrt), and tobacco retailers would become authorised through a concession tender, advertised on 15 december 2012. the time-limit for applying was 22 february 2013. entities or persons previously engaged in tobacco retail had no privileges in the tender. legal persons were not entitled to apply. the act was subsequently amended on several occasions, and the final version was enacted on 6 june 2013, with entry into force on 1 july 2013. the decision about the tenders was taken by nd zrt itself. the first applicant, partners 2000 kft had been active in tobacco retail for several years. since, however, it was not entitled to apply for a concession under the new law, the second applicant applied personally for one, on several occasions. however, nd zrt turned down his applications, informing him that he had not obtained a tobacco retail concession. the decisions said that his applications did not fully meet the requirements, without developing the shortcomings. no compensation is available for ex-tobacco-retailers who, by not being awarded a concession, lost part of their livelihood. the refusals, such as those of mr györkös, were not subject to any legal remedy.
the applicant was born in 1964 and, until his arrest, lived in st petersburg. eleven days later he underwent an electrocardiogram, which revealed hypertrophy of the left ventricle of his heart and myocardium insufficiency. 78 of the federal service for the execution of sentences (“prison hospital no. on 13 august 2010 the applicant was discharged from the hospital and transferred to facility no. on 18 january 2011 the investigative committee dismissed the complaint. on 14 december 2010 an independent cardiologist, dr f., chosen by the applicant’s wife, issued a report assessing the quality of the applicant’s treatment in detention. this led to a change in his hypertension therapy, primarily by decreasing the dosage and excluding certain drugs. 1 where his condition was brought under control. in the meantime, in march 2011 dr f. studied the applicant’s clinical records and recommended that he undergo a coronary angiography examination, as well as haemodialysis to define the correct treatment and to prevent possible progress of his kidney disease. on one occasion in june 2011 he refused to take a certain medicine, having noted that he had already taken similar drugs earlier that day. the two doctors therefore recommended his admission to hospital. on 19 september 2011 the applicant was examined by dr g., who found that his kidney disease had progressed to stage three. the doctor stressed that an angiography examination at that stage of the development of the applicant’s illness posed a risk of irreparable damage to the applicant’s kidneys. he underwent a number of tests in the hospital. they noted that the applicant’s state of health called for vascular surgery, drug treatment and the limitation of stress. 21, where he spent the first two weeks of june 2013. on 30 october 2013 the applicant’s health significantly deteriorated and he was admitted to the therapeutic department of medical ward no. according to the applicant, following his discharge from the ward he was immediately sent to saransk for the recommended examinations. symptomatic treatment was prescribed for his kidney disease. doctors authorised and immediately performed an urgent coronary angioplasty and a coronary stent was installed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in samobor. in 2003, three years after he had bought the flat, the applicant’s wife gave birth to their third child. the child was born with multiple physical and mental disabilities. after the birth the child underwent a number of medical treatments and his condition was under the constant supervision of the competent social care services. in april 2008 an expert commission diagnosed him with incurable cerebral palsy, grave mental retardation and epilepsy. in september 2008 the social services declared the child 100% disabled. in the meantime, in september 2006, the applicant bought a house in samobor, and in october 2008 he sold his flat. in particular, it was very difficult to take his son out of the flat to see a doctor, or to take him for physiotherapy and to kindergarten or school, and to meet his other social needs. in his request the applicant argued that the flat which he owned did not meet the housing needs of his family since it was very difficult, and in fact becoming impossible, to take his disabled child out of the flat from the third floor without a lift, given that he was in a wheelchair. the applicant therefore submitted that he had bought the house in order to cater for his son’s needs. on 6 may 2009 the samobor tax office (ministarstvo financija – porezna uprava, područni ured zagreb, ispostava samobor) dismissed the applicant’s request, giving the following reasons:“section 11(9) of the real property transfer tax act ... provides for tax exemption for citizens who are buying their first real property in order to meet their housing needs, under conditions which must be cumulatively satisfied, including the requirement that the taxpayer in question, or his or her family members, do not have another flat or a house meeting their housing needs. it was therefore decided as noted in the operative part [of the decision].” 69/07-153/02) provides for tax exemption for citizens who are buying their first real property in order to meet their housing needs. it further lays down conditions which the citizen must meet in order to demonstrate that he or she is buying his or her first real property in order to meet his or her housing needs. given the rationale of the cited provisions and the facts of the case as established beyond doubt during the proceedings, [the ministry] considers that the first-instance authority was justified in rejecting the appellant’s request for tax exemption ... the right to tax exemption exists if the citizen, or his or her immediate family members, at the time of purchase [of the real property], do not own, or did not own, another real property meeting their housing needs or a flat, a holiday house or other real property of a significant value. he also emphasised that the house was the first real property in respect of which he had sought a real property transfer tax exemption. on 21 march 2012 the high administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative action as ill-founded, endorsing the reasoning of the lower administrative bodies. on 25 may 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) relying on article 14 of the constitution, contending, inter alia, that, given the specific accommodation needs of his family due to his child’s disability, he had been discriminated against by unfair application of the relevant tax legislation. he argued, in particular, that the competent administrative authorities had failed to correct the factual inequality inherent in his particular situation with regard to the ordinary meaning of the term basic infrastructural requirements meeting the housing needs of his family. in addition, he had been involved in various therapeutic and social assistance activities, and for the period between 29 june 2010 and 2 october 2011 the applicant’s wife had been granted special status related to her child’s disability and had received inter alia, monthly payments of hrk 2,500 (approximately eur 300).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in roman. she was examined on a monthly basis and her pregnancy developed normally. informed her daughter that she needed to be hospitalised for further investigations because an imminent premature birth was suspected. on 10 october 2001 the applicant’s daughter was transferred to the intensive care unit and her condition continued to deteriorate. from the cuza-vodă clinic located in iaşi. refused to perform the emergency c-section, but eventually agreed that the applicant’s daughter could be transferred to the cuza-vodă clinic in iaşi. her condition worsened during the transport. the applicant’s granddaughter died on 12 october 2001 from cardiac arrest, despite resuscitation manoeuvres. it noted amongst other things that according to the serology examination report no spores of poisonous mushrooms were found. it concluded that the death of the applicant’s daughter was pathological and was caused by hepatic-nephritis and generalised haemorrhagic vasculopathy, with cardio-respiratory and circulatory insufficiency. on 30 may 2002, the iaşi forensics institute, sitting as a review commission, informed the iaşi police department that they approved the conclusions of the forensic necropsy report of 27 march 2002 as scientifically grounded and based on the medical data included in the report. by a judgment of 20 november 2009, the iaşi district court allowed the applicant’s and her son-in-law’s challenge against the order of 4 may 2004, cancelled the order, and referred the file back to the prosecutor’s office for criminal proceedings to be opened against dr i.m. had administered medical treatment in accordance with his professional obligations, and, if such treatment had been inappropriate, whether this had had any causal link with the deaths of the applicant’s daughter and grand-daughter. the applicant challenged the order before the superior prosecutor. also, she had not been notified without undue delay of the outcome of the criminal investigation, although on 6 february 2004 the suceava police department had informed her that she would be notified about the outcome of the investigation. on 21 july 2011, the file was registered with the suceava district court. on 25 january 2012, the court of cassation decided that the suceava district court was competent to examine the case. the judgment of a court quashing an order of the prosecutor’s office to discontinue a criminal investigation was not one of the lawfully permissible reasons to suspend the running of the statutory limit. however, the seriousness of her illness led to her death. in addition, there had been no other case before the romanian college of doctors in which dr i.m.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in szeged. the applicant had a car accident in 1993, sustained serious injuries and, as a consequence, her loss of capacity to work was assessed to be 67 per cent. an insurance company was obliged to pay a monthly allowance to the applicant. in order to redeem the monthly allowance, the insurance company offered 4,400,000 hungarian forints (17,600 euros) to the applicant as compensation for all damages she has suffered. the applicant and the insurance company concluded an agreement on the lump sum on 25 february 1999. subsequently, the applicant realised that the lump sum paid by the insurance company did not cover all her damages, believing that the calculation method applied by the insurance company was mistaken. consequently, on 7 august 2003 the applicant initiated a civil lawsuit against the insurance company requesting the court to declare the agreement invalid and to oblige the insurance company to pay compensation for damages. the budapest regional court delivered a partial judgment on 18 april 2006 in which dismissed the applicant’s claim on the alleged invalidity of the parties’ agreement. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the partial judgment on 21 february 2007. the applicant challenged the partial judgment before the supreme court which upheld it on 17 october 2007. as to the remainder, the budapest regional court in its judgment delivered on 11 june 2007 partly found for the applicant in respect of the damage claim. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal reversed the judgment and dismissed the applicant’s claim on 23 april 2008. the applicant challenged the judgment before the supreme court but to no avail. the supreme court upheld the final and binding judgment on 11 february 2009.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sweden. on 19 february 2010, counsel appointed the applicant made written submissions to the migration board (migrationsverket) in which he developed the grounds for the applicant’s request for political asylum. when asked when he had converted, the applicant replied that this had happened after he had arrived in the swedish town of x, where there were not many iranians. this person knew that the applicant hated islam. the migration board official asked why, if the applicant did not wish to rely on his conversion as a ground for asylum, he had nevertheless handed in the certificate from the pastor, to which the applicant replied: “i don’t know. he had been arrested once again in september 2009 and imprisoned for twenty days. in october 2009 he had been taken before the revolutionary court, which had released him after a day on condition that he cooperate with the authorities and spy on his friends. for these reasons, the migration board found that the applicant could not have been of interest to the authorities on account of his activities or the material he had in his possession. to pursue his faith in private was not found to be a plausible reason for believing that he would risk persecution upon return. in conclusion, the migration board found that the applicant had not shown that he was in need of protection in sweden. the applicant stated that he did not wish to rely on his conversion as a reason for asylum but considered it something personal. material that was critical of the regime was stored on his computer. it was much the same as the material he had had on his computer in 2007. the applicant had only stated that he had participated in the campaign for the opposition before the elections in 2009 by joining demonstrations and having contact with the student movement and students in order to help them with their web pages. he maintained his need for political asylum. he enclosed a letter of 13 april 2011 from his new congregation which supported his explanation. the removal order thus became enforceable. on 13 september 2011 the migration board refused to re-examine the applicant’s request for asylum based on his conversion. he submitted that since he had not previously relied on his conversion, it should be regarded as a new circumstance. on 6 october 2011 the migration court rejected the appeal.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in novosibirsk. he was not informed of the reasons for his arrest. he had not been subjected to any pressure or intimidation. s. and his mother were also heard by the police about the incident and they claimed that on two occasions, on 27 december 2004 and 3 january 2005, the applicant had extorted 1,000 roubles (rub) from s., threatening him with violence if he did not hand over the money. on 12 january 2005 the juveniles inspectorate refused to institute criminal proceedings against the applicant. on 3 february 2005 the applicant’s grandfather complained to the prosecutor’s office of the sovetskiy district of novosibirsk that the applicant, a minor suffering from a psychological disorder, had been intimidated and then questioned in the absence of his guardian and that his confession had been obtained under duress. on the same day the court delivered its judgment in which it ordered the applicant’s placement in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders for thirty days. a criminal case was not opened because he had not reached the age of criminal responsibility. on 24 july 2003 [the applicant] again committed an offence proscribed by article 213 of the criminal code of the russian federation. 163, often played truant from school, and stopped attending school entirely from december onwards. the prosecutor asked the court to accept the request and to place [the applicant] in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders, taking into account that the documents presented by [the applicant’s] guardian did not confirm that [the applicant] had been at a doctor’s surgery on 27 december 2004 at 1 p.m. or that he had been unable to commit the criminal offence, particularly taking into account the [applicant’s] personality and the fact that he had already committed a number of offences. s.] complained to his mother, who called the police. having regard to the above-mentioned facts and ruling under section 22(2)(4) of the minors act, the court grants the request of the head of the police department and decides to place the applicant in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders for thirty days.” about twenty children of different ages and school levels were taught together in one class. corporal punishment was not used; nor were juvenile inmates ever required to do hard or dirty work. it could be seen from the temporary detention centre’s “accounting and statistical record” concerning the applicant that he had not informed the doctor about his enuresis. 215 of the ministry of the interior of 2 april 2004 (see paragraph 73 below). however, the government submitted a written statement by a supervisor at the detention centre dated 23 december 2010. on 23 march 2005 the applicant was released from the detention centre. it remitted the case for a fresh examination on appeal.
the applicants are a mother and child born in 1990 and 2012 respectively. according to her, they stayed on the ward at all times. on 12 november 2012 the first applicant wrote in a statement for the sizo administration (see paragraphs 41 and 76) that the maternity hospital staff had treated her well, that she had not been handcuffed or shackled, and that the two female security officers who had been on her ward had been helping her take care of the baby. in december 2012 and january 2013 the prosecution authorities questioned some maternity hospital staff and the security officers who had guarded the first applicant with a view to verifying her allegations, particularly as regards her shackling (see also paragraphs 76-82 below). on 24 december 2012 the chief obstetrician, ms ti., gave a written statement to the prosecution authorities. specified that the first applicant had not been shackled during the delivery or subsequently during breastfeeding. 408, in which she had been held from 14 march to 8 november 2012. the toilet and shower were in a niche not separated from the living area. the first applicant was not provided with any baby hygiene products. the cell had three windows measuring over eight square metres in total. she breastfed her son and refused the baby food provided by the sizo. there were no restrictions on food or other parcels she received from her relatives. on 1 and 2 february 2012 the local sanitary and epidemiological service inspected the sizo in the context of an unspecified investigation. on 13 november 2012 one of the sizo staff wrote to the state prisons service to say that the first applicant’s statement had been made freely. the applicants’ case received some media coverage. lastly, she submitted that on two occasions she had witnessed the first applicant requesting medical care for her baby when he had had stomachache, but her requests had been ignored. on 25 may 2012 the applicants were discharged from the maternity hospital. at the same time, its doctors had examined him when requested by the sizo administration. on 25 december 2012 she complained to the kharkiv regional prosecutor’s office that she had been shackled to her bed in the maternity hospital at all times, including during the delivery.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in new delhi, india. on 21 september 2004 the office of citizenship and migration affairs refused to grant the permanent residence permit to the applicant on the grounds that he had submitted false information and did not have sufficient financial means to stay in latvia. this objection was accompanied by another letter requesting to ignore the former, as it had been drawn up under threat by the applicant. she asked for help and for the applicant to be refused leave to remain in latvia. according to her, on 4 and 5 december, when she had attempted to talk to the applicant about a divorce, he had allegedly tried to suffocate her and had inflicted bodily injuries on her. nevertheless, when the permanent residence permit had been issued “it had started all over again”. the applicant denied the allegations contained in this letter. this decision was not amenable to judicial review at the time. if he had to leave she and their children would probably follow him. in view of this, they asked the state border guard service to detain and expel the applicant in accordance with section 51, paragraph 1, part 2 of the immigration law. on 13 june 2005 the minister of interior adopted decision no. thus the minister could not remove the prohibition on entering latvia. on 12 april 2005 the administrative district court forwarded to the applicant’s address in jēkabpils the written submissions of the office of citizenship and migration affairs in his case. the applicant signed the detention record and he was placed in a short-term detention facility in jēkabpils, where he stayed until 17 june 2005. on 13 june 2005 the jēkabpils branch of the office of citizenship and migration affairs adopted an expulsion order, no. the decision took effect the same day, when it was notified to the applicant. on 17 june 2005 the applicant was transferred to an accommodation centre for foreign detainees in olaine. the applicant did not lodge an appeal against this decision with the administrative courts. on 11 july 2005 the head of the office of citizenship and migration affairs dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the expulsion order (see paragraph 32 above). lastly, in response to the applicant’s question whether he could now enter latvia or receive a permanent residence permit, reference was made to the immigration law and the procedure established therein.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tula. the source of his income or means of subsistence for his family are not known. the court also takes into consideration the motive for and the specific circumstances of the offence with which [the applicant] has been charged. the perpetrators used improvised weapons and acted in an organised group during the late hours of the day. on 30 march 2009 the moscow city court found the decision of 10 march 2009 justified and upheld it on appeal. the crime was committed in concert with other persons. the applicant] was not residing at his registered address. he does not have a registered address in the moscow region. under article 97 of the code of criminal procedure, a preventive measure can be imposed if there is evidence that a defendant might abscond or interfere with the administration of justice in his case. on 18 may 2009 the city court upheld the decision of 27 april 2009 on appeal. the applicant argued against the extension of his pre-trial detention. he further pointed out that the investigation in the case had already been completed and that he could not interfere with the administration of justice or put pressure on witnesses. he had no intention of doing so or of absconding. they were not living at their registered address. the fact that the investigation in the criminal case has been completed has no effect to the contrary. regard being had to the foregoing, the court discerns no grounds on which to change the preventive measure imposed earlier on the defendants and apply a less restrictive measure, including the [applicant’s] release upon a statement of guarantee signed by a surety.” on 24 june 2009 the applicant asked the district court for release. he submitted that on 16 june 2009 his wife had given birth to their child. in particular, [the applicant] does not have a registered address in moscow or the moscow region. the reasons justifying the [applicant’s] remand in custody have not ceased to exist or changed. ...
the applicant is a journalist by profession. the incident, in which three people had died and eight others had been injured, had caused much emotion and controversy in switzerland. profession: nursing assistant ... it is 8.15 p.m. on tuesday 8 july 2003, in the austere premises of the lausanne criminal investigation department. this algerian citizen is withdrawn, introverted, inscrutable, indeed completely impenetrable. and yet the questions are flying from all sides. the article continued with a summary of the questions put by the police officers and the investigating judge and m.b. did not lodge a complaint against the applicant. complicity in such acts is also punishable (see paragraph 2). according to case-law, this provision proceeds from a formal conception of secrecy. the secrecy requirement relates to all the evidence uncovered by the investigation itself as well as all non-public decisions and investigative measures (see paragraph 2). lastly, the law provides for a range of exceptions. the present case therefore concerns secrecy imposed by the law rather than by an official decision. 1066, p. 678; gérard piquerez, procédure pénale suisse: manuel, 2nd ed., as well as the need to protect the opinion-forming process and the decision-making process within a state authority, as protected, precisely, by article 293 of the criminal code (see atf 126 iv 236, point 2c/aa, p. 245). furthermore, in so far as the impugned publication concerned excerpts from records of interviews of the accused and reproduced certain letters sent by the latter to the investigating judge, this evidence can validly be classified secret, by prohibiting public access to it, as provided by the legislation of the canton of vaud. in short, the appellant submits that he had the professional duty (under former article 32 of the criminal code) as a journalist to publish the information in question because of what he describes as the obvious interest in the ‘lausanne bridge’ case for the population of french-speaking switzerland. this type of information provides no relevant insights into the accident or the circumstances surrounding it. it suggested that the case had already been tried in the author’s view, in the sense that the fatalities on the lausanne bridge had been caused not by an ordinary motorist but by a ‘mad driver’, a man ‘oblivious to the events and all the hubbub around him’; the journalist concluded by wondering whether the driver was in fact doing his best to ‘make himself impossible to defend’. the appellant also submitted that the records of interviews and the letters would in any case be mentioned in subsequent public hearings. it follows from the foregoing that the appellant disclosed a secret within the meaning of article 293, paragraph 1, of the criminal code and that he cannot rely on any justifying factor in his favour.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in šibenik. on 20 september 2005 an investigating judge of the šibenik county court heard the applicant, who denied the charges against him. he had approached the house the children had come from and had knocked at the door, but no one had answered. when he was back at home, two young women had come to ask for the mobile telephone belonging to one of them, but he told them he had not taken it. in response to a request for international legal assistance from the croatian prosecuting authorities, on 9 june 2006 the chomutovo county court in the czech republic heard evidence from e.r. she said that on 12 july 2005 in betina, croatia, her children had thrown water-filled balloons at the applicant. together with her step-daughter she had followed the applicant to his house and asked him to return her telephone. during his trial before the šibenik municipal court the applicant gave oral evidence on 18 may 2010. he reiterated the statement he had given before the investigating judge. over the behaviour of her children, he had not stolen her mobile telephone. ’s questioning as evidence without examining her directly. the trial court held that it was clear that the applicant had been the person who had approached the house where e.r. had no reason “to blame the accused without basis”. before the chomutovo county court, the czech republic, on 9 june 2009 without the parties’ consent because there were sound reasons for doing so, namely that the victim gave her evidence more than four years ago and this court considers that, owing to the passage of time, it would not learn any new facts or circumstances relevant for assessing the circumstances of the event [at issue], and was also mindful of the fact that the [charges against the accused] will become time-barred in july 2011 and ... summoning the victim would protract the criminal proceedings unnecessarily. had never been summoned to a hearing during his trial before the šibenik municipal court and that he had had no opportunity to question her. ’s mobile telephone had not been found in his possession. ... this decision of the first-instance court did not violate the defence rights of the accused ......... it should also be said that the mobile telephone could not have been found in the accused’s possession because nobody looked for it. on 13 may 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), arguing that he had not had a fair trial as he had not been given an opportunity to question e.r. on 8 december 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. this decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 12 january 2012.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 2007 respectively and live in st petersburg. the first applicant has a mild mental disability. ’s legal capacity, relying in particular on a psychiatric examination report. was declared void at the request of a public prosecutor because of ms n.s. in november 2011 they were provided with a flat in st petersburg. according to the report, the first applicant was well presented, readily engaged himself in conversation and could read, write and do arithmetic. he was able to cook and kept his room in the care home clean and orderly. there was also a separate desk equipped for the child. his psychiatric state was stable; he did not show any signs of aggression towards others or emotional instability and did not need any medical treatment. (b)  oral submissions and witness statements 25. at the hearing before the district court, the first applicant’s representative contested the children’s home’s application as groundless and discriminatory as being based on the fact that the first applicant had an intellectual disability. the first applicant’s lawyer thus insisted that the second applicant should be transferred into his care. it restricted, for the time being, the first applicant’s parental authority over the second applicant. the first applicant appealed against the judgment of 20 march 2012 to the st petersburg city court (“the city court”). legal incapacity was a formal status and did not mean that the person was dangerous to others. on the contrary, the relevant medical report by the experts of the care home, who had observed the first applicant for many years, revealed that his mental condition had not impaired his ability to fulfil his parental responsibilities (see paragraph 22 above). a representative of the children’s home confirmed in court that the first applicant regularly visited the second applicant, that close emotional ties had formed between them and that the girl missed her father when he left. it took into account the parties’ arguments and observed, as had been submitted by a representative of the children’s home, that the first and second applicants had developed close emotional ties, that at present the girl felt comfortable and calm in her father’s presence and that she missed him whenever he left the children’s home. with reference to article 76 of the russian family code, the court thus allowed the first applicant’s application and ordered that the restriction of his parental authority over the second applicant be lifted and that she be transferred into his care. the judgment was not appealed against and entered into force on 17 may 2013.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in plasencia. on 3 january 2011 following a trial, the plasencia criminal judge (juez de lo penal) no. 1 sentenced the applicant to six months’ imprisonment for serious disobedience to public authority (desobediencia grave a la autoridad). the judge established that the applicant was the webmaster of an internet forum on which defamatory messages against the complainants in the proceedings had been published, and that he had deliberately disregarded the request made to him by a police officer within the framework of the criminal investigation not to alter the messages in question. in fact, the applicant had proceeded to have the forum webpage removed altogether, despite the police officer’s request to leave it unchanged. as regards the charges for defamation and false accusation of a crime, the judge held that there were reasonable doubts as to whether the applicant had been aware of the messages in question before his police interview and that he should therefore be acquitted in that regard. both the prosecution and defence appealed against the judgment before the cáceres audiencia provincial. the applicant did not request a hearing, nor did the audiencia provincial order one. instead, the court watched a video-recording of the trial. on 16 may 2011 the audiencia provincial upheld the applicant’s conviction for serious disobedience to public authority and, unlike the first-instance judge, found him guilty of continuous and false accusation of a crime (delito continuado de calumnias). his punishment was a daily fine of 15 euros (eur) for a period of eighteen months. in finding the applicant guilty, the appellate court stated that it had relied on the facts established by the first-instance judge and on the testimony given by the complainants, the applicant and the witnesses in the earlier trial. of the criminal code in relation to section 74 of the same code for which the defendant jorge gómez olmeda should be declared guilty as a principal pursuant to sections 28 and 30 of the code with the mitigating factor of undue delays pursuant to section 21 paragraph six of the code. it is worth remembering that we are speaking here of a small town where everybody knows each other, where everybody runs into each other, where everybody attends the same places, where everyday life is routine and there is little room for novelties, where anything breaking the monotony is something which attracts public attention, where the genealogy of every inhabitant is known to the rest. we disagree with the accused when he states that he was unaware of what was written on the forum, the argument on which the first-instance judge relied to acquit him of false accusation of a crime and defamation. and we disagree for the following two reasons. the applicant applied to the audiencia provincial to have the previous proceedings before it declared void. the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court. he cited article 24 of the constitution (right to a fair hearing), complaining that the audiencia provincial had convicted him on appeal without giving him the opportunity to plead his case in open court. by a decision served on 13 march 2012 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s amparo appeal inadmissible as it had no special constitutional significance.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in wiener neustadt, austria. 13, where he was detained between 21 january and 23 august 2011. 13, designed for prisoners with medical problems, since he had complained upon his arrival of pain due to his prostate cancer, as well as hypertension. it was full of parasitic insects and rats. the water was yellow because the pipes were rusted, but he had to drink it in the absence of an alternative. he received basic medication for his hypertension. according to the government, during his detention in prison no. 13, designed for twelve detainees and measuring 30 square metres, cell no. 609 concerning the minimal norms of food for detainees. the budget for food, medication and other expenses grew steadily each year (the total prison budget rose from 3,453,000 moldovan lei (mdl) in 2007 to mdl 4,813,300 in 2011). in an appeal to the chișinău court of appeal on 18 february 2011 the applicant referred to his poor state of health as a reason for his release; he was ill with prostate cancer. that request was refused on 20 april 2011 by the buiucani district court. in an appeal of 1 july 2011 the applicant repeated his submissions made before the buiucani district court. conditions of detention”) the human rights centre (the moldovan ombudsman institution) found, inter alia, that:“... [t]he prisons department informed the ombudsman that meat and fish products are provided [to detainees] whenever possible. at the same time, that authority stated that, owing to the difficult financial situation, during 2010 the detainees in prison no. 17 in rezina received 75% and 80% of their normal quotas of meat and fish products respectively. all of them noted problems concerning conditions of detention, and a significant proportion also noted problems with medical assistance. the report noted the continuing problem of insufficient access to daylight in the cells, in which the windows are covered with layers of metal bars, the lack of ventilation, increased humidity in the cells, very worn-out bed linen, the separation of the toilet from the rest of the cell by a cellophane sheet, or the lack of any type of separation. 13 be closed down in order to avoid new findings of violations by the court. in december 2015 the human rights centre repeated its recommendation of closing down prison no.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in kresttsy, novgorod region. on 28 july 2004 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a murder. the other participants in the crime confessed and incriminated [the applicant]. on an unspecified date the applicant was charged with conspiracy to commit robbery. on 4 november 2004 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 january 2005. it reiterated verbatim its earlier reasoning. on 7 december 2004 the investigator dropped the murder charges against the applicant for lack of corpus delicti. the court noted as follows:“regard being had to the seriousness of the charges, the [applicant’s] character and the negative references, the court does not discern grounds to change the earlier imposed preventive measure or to release [the applicant].” on 14 february 2005 the regional court fixed the preliminary hearing of the applicant’s case for 24 february 2005. on 28 april 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the said decision on appeal. the applicant and his lawyer were present. both the applicant and his lawyer appealed. the applicant’s lawyer and the prosecutor were present and made submissions to the court. as regards the extension of the applicant’s detention, the court ruled that the circumstances underlying the applicant’s remand in custody continued to exist. he had not spent nights at home and had not lived with his mother for extended periods of time. his mother could not control his behavior; she did not pay due attention to his upbringing and had no influence over him. on 17 october 2005 the regional court extended the applicant’s and two other defendants’ detention until 27 january 2006. on 15 december 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 17 october 2005 on appeal. the court reiterated verbatim its reasoning of 17 october 2005. on 27 september 2006 the supreme court of russia upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in london. the dso arrived at 7.15 a.m.; however, commander mcdowall spoke to her after the briefing to ensure she had all the information and assistance she needed. upon arrival they received a further briefing from dci c, which commenced at 8.50 a.m. the briefing was not recorded but it appears that dci c confirmed the terrorists had the capacity to attach a device to themselves that would be difficult to detect. the cctv on the bus did not capture the entire journey due to vibrations but mr de menezes was recorded as being on the bus by 9.39 a.m. at this point the surveillance team described him as “a good possible likeness” to hussain osman. there are conflicting accounts of whether a positive identification was made of mr de menezes as the suspect at this stage. at 9.59 a.m. the surveillance teams were asked to give a percentage indication of the likelihood that mr de menezes was the suspect and they replied that it was “impossible [to do so] but thought that it was [the] suspect”. by this time mr de menezes was already in the underground station. however, at 8.40 p.m. the same day it was handed back to the officers from the unit. ... ... ... 20.32 detective chief inspector c, the silver commander, was effectively the ground commander with responsibility for so12, so13 and [so19] officers. the [cps] may wish to consider whether the actions of charlie 2 and charlie 12 amount to murder in the context of their justification for the shooting of mr de menezes and having regard to the fact that there were explanations given for the shooting at that time which did not accord with the accounts given 36 hours later. with the mind-set of the [so19] officers believing that a suicide bomber had entered the underground station, to receive such an order to stop him from dso cannot be related to normal duties. the ipcc noted that in the course of its investigation grave concerns had been raised about the effectiveness of the police response on 22 july 2005. by letter dated 17 july 2006 the cps notified the deceased’s family that the director of public prosecutions (“dpp”) had decided to prosecute the ocpm, not in his individual capacity but as an employer of police officers, for failing to provide for the health, safety and welfare of mr de menezes contrary to sections 3 and 33 of the 1974 act (see paragraphs 157-158 below). he also considered the possibility of prosecuting commander dick for offences under sections 7 and 33 of the 1974 act, but, having applied the relevant criteria, found that the prosecution of her or of any of the other individual officers under these provisions would not be in accordance with health and safety executive policy. likewise, the prosecutor considered that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute trojan 80, dci c or the surveillance teams for gross negligence manslaughter. there is no doubt that the officers intended to kill mr de menezes when they fired. a police officer can owe a duty of care in directing other police officers to perform an armed interception. it was submitted] that using [sfos] gave rise to a particular risk that lethal force would be used. the third point made in criticism of [trojan 80] is that he failed to pass on to [the dso] accurate information about the position of the [sfos] in the minutes after it became apparent that mr de menezes was leaving the bus. on 26 march 2009 the family asked the dpp to review the decision not to prosecute in light of new evidence which had emerged at the inquest.
the applicants were born in 1960 and 1956 respectively and live in riga. aiming to verify that information, the knab launched operational proceedings (operatīvā izstrāde). on 13 april 2005 the second applicant arranged a meeting with j. away from the knab’s offices. he asked her to withdraw cash from the company’s account. their phone conversations were intercepted and recorded. the next day, the second applicant arranged another meeting, during which he gave the investigator lvl 27,000. on the same day he was arrested by knab officers. the second applicant was charged as a suspect. in a letter of 31 may 2005 the knab informed the supervising prosecutor at the prosecutor general’s office that the second applicant’s phone had been tapped in accordance with section 17(3) of the law on operational activities “upon the authorisation of a judge of the supreme court”. the knab asked for the recordings to be included in the criminal case file. on 2 june 2005 the office of the prosecutor brought a charge of aiding and abetting against the first applicant, and a charge of bribery against the second applicant. moreover, the document had been classified as a state secret. the first applicant did not appeal against that reply to a more senior prosecutor. it appears that on 18 october 2005 the representative of the first applicant sent a complaint about the activities of knab officials in relation to the phone tapping to the prosecutor general’s office. on 2 november 2005 the riga city vidzeme district court, acting as a first-instance court and presided over by judge b.t., on 8 november 2005 the prosecutor submitted an appeal contesting the acquittal of the first applicant, and asked for an immediate custodial sentence to be imposed in relation to the second applicant. the second applicant submitted an appeal concerning the severity of his sentence. during the hearing, the prosecutor confirmed orally that judicial authorisation had been obtained. the second applicant submitted, inter alia, that the appellate court had not assessed the lawfulness of the phone tapping and had ignored the fact that the criminal case had contained no reference to any authorisation to carry out the above activity as prescribed by article 176¹ of the code of criminal procedure. on 19 january 2007 the senate of the supreme court dismissed the appeal on points of law in open court.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in yerevan. in 1991 the applicant, without permission, constructed a building consisting of a shop/storage and an unfinished construction and measuring in total 500 sq. m. plot of land situated in a suburb of yerevan. it appears that the applicant used this property for the following ten years. in 2001 the applicant instituted special (non-contentious) proceedings in the shengavit district court of yerevan seeking recognition of his ownership right in respect of that building by virtue of acquisitive prescription under article 187 of the civil code (cc), as well as his right of use in respect of the plot of land. on 8 june 2001 the shengavit district court decided to recognise the applicant’s ownership right in respect of the building and to leave the plot of land under his use. on 22 may 2003 the applicant’s right of ownership was registered in respect of the plot of land and a relevant ownership certificate was issued. when she later applied to the local branch of the state real estate registry to have her ownership right registered, she was informed that the plot of land in question overlapped with the neighbouring plot of land. she requested that the auction be cancelled in its part concerning the overlapping part of the plot, the money paid for that part be returned and a new sale contract be concluded in respect of the remaining part of her plot. the land had belonged to the state and hence had not been ownerless at the material time, so the district court should not have applied the acquisitive prescription rules to the case. by failing to do so, and adopting a judgment affecting their rights in their absence, the district court had also violated the procedural law. the mayor’s office further claimed that it had become aware of the contested judgment by a letter from the local branch of the state real estate registry dated 24 february 2009, which had been received by the mayor’s office on 18 march 2009. it finally added that the letter of the judicial department of armenia of 6 february 2009 had been accompanied by a copy of another judgment of the shengavit district court, dated 26 june 2001, which was unrelated to the present case. on an unspecified date, the applicant lodged a reply to the appeals. he argued, inter alia, that on 20 may 2003 he had paid the cadastral value of the plot of land and bought it through direct sale. moreover, the yerevan mayor’s office had been notified of his becoming the new owner of the plot of land by virtue of the law on the state registration of rights in respect of property. the building in question was an unauthorised construction built on a plot of land belonging to the state. hence, only the state could have acquired ownership rights in respect of that building. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. on 9 september 2009 the court of cassation decided to return the appeal as inadmissible for lack of merit.
the first applicant was born in 1992, the second applicant in 1995, and the third applicant in 1993. the mother named the girls who had attended the sauna naked. for the same reason, the third applicant had also started going to the sauna naked. according to the applicants’ account, even though girls had been in the sauna naked, o.b. – telling the third applicant to go to the sauna, and that he would come to massage her. had been their trainer and teacher, whom they had to obey. from the documents furnished to the court it appears that the applicants gave the police the names of the other girls who had attended the sauna, a.f., had consumed alcohol, even though he had also been driving a vehicle. she had tried to persuade the girls that it was not normal and had gone to the sauna dressed in a swimsuit. the report referred to the applicant’s character report from her previous school, which stated that on 1 september 2009 the applicant had been observed in a tense condition, unwilling to participate in extracurricular activities, in low spirits and suffering from loss of concentration. the report noted that the events in issue had caused the first applicant unpleasant feelings, insecurity, and anger and had made her distrustful in her communication with other coaches and with older men. on 21 january 2010 the mother of the third applicant gave evidence. therefore the mother had understood that o.b. gave evidence that she had been coached by o.b. and the third applicant had not been questioned. the statements of children present in the sauna had not been taken. they furnished the report by the psychologist, k.v., on 14 january 2011 the higher prosecutor, e.b., constituted newly discovered facts, asked the police to reopen the investigation. by a final decision of 6 february 2012 that request was dismissed.
mr dzhabarov was born in 1975 and lives in burgas. the police issued an order for mr petkov’s detention for twenty-four hours at 1.30 p.m. that order likewise said that he was being detained under section 63(1)(1) of the miaa, but in his case in conjunction with 198 § 1 of the criminal code 1968, which criminalises robbery. neither of the two orders mentioned the factual grounds on which they had been issued. however, the order had not specified the offence of which he was suspected. the lack of such suspicion was also demonstrated by the absence of any evidence in the police file. he did however ask the supreme administrative court to award him the costs incurred in the appeal proceedings. the supreme administrative court upheld the lower court’s judgment. the court did not mention mr dzhabarov’s claim in respect of the costs incurred in the appeal proceedings. he alleged, inter alia, that his detention had been unlawful and had caused him psychological trauma. he had not provided any evidence, in particular medical expert reports, on that point. on 10 march 2008 the stara zagora administrative court quashed the order. in a bench ruling of 18 november 2009 (опр. the supreme administrative court refused the request, finding that it had been made out of the applicable seven-day time-limit, which had started to run on 18 november 2009. in july 2008 mr petkov brought a claim under section 1(1) of the state and municipalities liability for damage act 1988 (see paragraph 47 below) against the stara zagora regional directorate of the ministry of internal affairs. on 12 april 2010 the proceedings were resumed. on 29 september 2010 the burgas administrative court dismissed the claim. he argued, inter alia, that it was absurd to hold that the mental suffering flowing from unlawful detention could only be established on the basis of medical expert evidence. there was no evidence, however, that the applicant’s act had prejudiced the state or those two persons, both of whom, when interviewed, had stated that they had not suffered any negative consequences as a result of the applicant’s divulging their personal data to mr b.t. it was not supported by the statement of mr b.t. the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeal.
the present case concerns the applicant’s trial and conviction before a judge and jury at the central criminal court for the murder of a mr jon bartlett. mr bartlett was shot dead at about 7.40 pm on 31 march 2006. after this meeting the applicant went to his parents’ home. he answered “no comment” to the questions asked. the defence objected to their admission in evidence but the judge ruled that they should be admitted. in determining whether the recordings should be admitted, the judge considered the matters listed in section 114(2) of the criminal justice act 2003 (see paragraph 40 below). secondly, he indicated that mr pearman could not be called because he refused to give evidence, but noted that all the enquiries carried out by the police to date had confirmed his lack of involvement in the killing. sixthly, the trial judge said that the defence had already cross‑examined the officer in the case as to mr pearman’s previous convictions and the details of the murder for which he was serving his sentence of life imprisonment. there had also been significant telephone contact between the applicant and mr bartlett in the ten days prior to the murder. the seller of the silver vectra gave evidence that on the afternoon of the murder he had been contacted by the applicant, who had arranged to meet at his house at 6 p.m. the seller’s mother testified that one of the two men who collected the car was named john and was wearing a baseball cap. several other witnesses gave descriptions to the effect that the man driving the vectra was white and was wearing a baseball cap. a police superintendent also gave evidence of the enquiries into mr pearman. it is for you to decide the extent to which the evidence of bad character helps you, if at all. he was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of thirty years. the application for leave to appeal was initially considered and rejected by a single judge in february 2009. the prospect of any sensible evidence being given by him was, on any realistic view, nil. the allegation against pearman had been made late, and given that on the appellant’s case he had known of pearman’s responsibility for the murder within days of its being committed, it is to be inferred that it was deliberately made late so as to make it more difficult for the crown to investigate it. (ii) seton and bartlett were involved in drugs together; there was evidence that seton was in debt to bartlett and that bartlett was pressing for payment. the evidence of rita willott (described by the judge as an extremely important witness) was not challenged and was read at the trial. (xii) lastly, evidence was given that on a previous occasion seton had had a connection with a firearm.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in sofia. in 1997 the compensation for owners of nationalised real property act (“the 1997 compensation law”) entered into force. on 27 november 1997 the applicant requested from the regional governor of sofia region compensation for an apartment which had belonged to his ancestor at the time of its nationalisation in 1949. as he received no reply, at some point in 1998 the applicant challenged the governor’s silence in court. the applicant appealed, challenging the type of compensation awarded to him. instead of ruling on the compensation, the sofia city court archived the case; it was only put back on the case roll on 5 july 2002 when the applicant complained. the sofia city court, sitting in its administrative bench, delivered a decision on 19 july 2005. the decision became enforceable on 6 september 2005. on 26 june 2006 the applicant transmitted to the regional governor a copy of the final court decision of 19 july 2005, asking that it be enforced. he sent another request to that effect on 8 august 2006. on 19 february 2007 the applicant submitted a certified copy of the court decision of 19 july 2005. he also pointed out that it was clear from the judicial decision that the heirs in question were two – himself and a sibling of his; pursuant to section 5(1) of the inheritance act 1949 he was eligible to receive half of the inheritance and, therefore, half of the compensation awarded by the court. on 16 march 2007 he was issued with a writ of execution in respect of the compensation owed to him. the bailiff sent another letter to the regional governor on 27 april 2007, inviting him to enforce the court decision. the bailiff specified that the costs and expenses which the governor was requested to pay related to the enforcement proceedings, that a writ of execution was not necessary in order to claim or collect those expenses, and that they had increased with the passage of time. finally, the bailiff reiterated that a weekly fine in the amount of bgn 200 would be imposed on the governor in the event of failure to enforce the court decision. on 10 may 2007 the regional governor challenged in court the bailiff’s acts. the bailiff wrote to the governor on 31 march 2009, requesting enforcement and with a reminder that failure to enforce could result in weekly fines of bgn 1,200 and in prosecution. the deputy regional governor replied on 27 april 2009 that the compensation proceedings had not been completed because of the applicant’s failure to submit the requested declaration about his share of the inheritance in accordance with the inheritance act 1949. on 11 may 2009 the applicant challenged the fine in court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. the applicant intended to organise a demonstration protesting against “the persecution of national radicalism”. it was planned to take place between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on 15 august 2009. the venue was venyige street in budapest xth district, in front of budapest penitentiary. venyige street is of a width of five metres in the government’s submissions and of eight in the applicant’s. parallel to the main driveway, there is a service lane, of a width equivalent to that of two cars; this area is normally used as a car park. in the applicant’s submissions, this latter section could have accommodated largely all the participants, without them creating any major traffic incident. the applicant, in the notification addressed to budapest police department under act no. iii of 1989 on the right of assembly, indicated that a maximum of 200 participants were to be expected. this notification was made at 5.40 p.m. on 12 august 2009. on 14 august 2009 budapest police department banned the demonstration, in pursuit of its prerogatives under section 8(1) of act no. it was of the view that there was no alternative route for the traffic in the neighbourhood, and consequently the demonstration would impede traffic inordinately. the applicant was reproached with the fact that the notification did not contain the agenda for the gathering. because of this prohibition, the demonstration did not take place. on 17 august 2009 the applicant requested judicial review of the police decision. he explained inter alia that he had not specified the agenda because the meeting had been intended as a rather small one and that therefore the actual course of events, such as speeches or discussion, was hard to predict. on 19 august 2009 the budapest regional court rejected the applicant’s complaint. it observed that the question of previous notification of the agenda was immaterial, since the only valid reason in the case was the disproportionate difficulties which would be caused to traffic by the demonstration. the court relied on the expert opinion provided by the traffic division of budapest police department, in whose view the demonstration would have significantly impeded the traffic heading to the shops located in venyige street, a dead end, to the local waste disposal site and to the suppliers’ entrance of budapest prison; and the disruption caused by the crowd might have extended to maglódi road, a major thoroughfare in the vicinity with lines of city transport involved. relying on that reasoning, the court endorsed the police decision.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in porto. on 28 april 2009 the applicant lodged a request to be granted permanent disability with respect to work before the state’s attorney’s office of the porto labour court as a consequence of a labour accident that she had suffered and with regard to which she was claiming damages and compensation. on 27 may 2009 the applicant supplied statements to the state’s attorney’s office in which she confirmed she was receiving medical care. on the same day the state’s attorney’s office request the applicant to provide her medical reports, which she submitted on 28 and 29 july 2009. meanwhile, the applicant’s employee was notified to provide information on the applicant’s work accident, which was done on 16 june 2009. between 16 september 2009 and 20 september 2010 the state’s attorney’s office requested information regarding the evolution of the applicant’s medical treatment. between these dates, the state’s attorney’s office stayed the proceedings twice for thirty days, on 5 march and on 4 may 2010, until the applicant was medically fit. on an unknown date the state’s attorney’s office was informed that the applicant was no longer being treated in the same clinic and on 7 october 2010 requested the applicant to inform whether she was still being treated and in which clinic. the state’s attorney’s office was informed that the applicant had changed her address and on 25 october 2010 requested the police to provide information on the applicant’s new address. on 4 november 2010 the applicant informed the porto labour court of her new address and that she had not been certified as medically fit yet. on 5 january 2011 the court requested the forensic institute (instituto de medicina legal) to make a medical examination of the applicant, which was made on 27 february 2011. the medical report was submitted by the forensic institute on 3 march 2011 in which it referred that further clinical data and an additional examination were still needed. on 12 october 2011 the forensic institute submitted its final report. the conciliatory hearing was adjourned to 24 january 2012 due to the lack of notification of the applicant’s employer. on 24 january 2012 the hearing was again adjourned to 14 march 2012 at the request of the applicant. on this date the conciliatory stage ended without an agreement between the parties. on 2 april 2012 the applicant requested the porto labour court to continue with the judicial stage of the proceedings against her employer and the insurance company. between 8 june 2012 and 21 november 2012 several procedural steps took place, mostly notifications, provision of information from the parties to the porto labour court and a medical examination at the request of the applicant. the hearing started on 20 february and continued on 28 february 2013. on 8 march 2013 the porto labour court delivered its decision in which it ruled against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kaliningrad. on unspecified date the applicant bought a house in kaliningrad. a third person, m., was her authorised representative for the conclusion of the purchase contract. on 18 august 2003 her ownership of the house was registered in the consolidated state register of real estate titles and transactions (единый государственный реестр прав на недвижимое имущество и сделок с ним, “the land register”) and it remains there to date. on an unspecified date m. was charged with fraud against the savings bank of russia (сбербанк) (hereafter – “the bank”) and a private person. on 20 april 2005 a judge of the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk issued an interlocutory injunction prohibiting the applicant from selling the house. on 15 march 2006 the oktyabrskiy district court of arkhangelsk found m. guilty of fraud. the court found, inter alia, that m. was also the de facto owner of the house as she had paid for it and resided in it since 2003. the court ordered the seizure and sale of the house in order to pay m.’s debt to the victims of the crime. on 9 june 2006 the arkhangelsk regional court partly quashed m.’s conviction on appeal, notably as regards the district court’s finding that she was the real owner of the house. it considered that this finding was not based on any legal provision and failed to take into account the purchase contract concerning the house. the regional court thus remitted that specific issue for fresh consideration in civil proceedings. on an unspecified date the bank sued m. for additional damages and sought reimbursement by means of the sale of the house. the applicant was also summoned to the proceedings as a defendant. on 17 september 2007 the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad rejected the bank’s civil claims and declared that the house was the applicant’s property. it held that the applicant had always demonstrated her intention to be the owner of the disputed house, notably by systematically paying all charges and taxes relating to the house, and that her mother was living in it. on 16 april 2008 the applicant applied to the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad for the revocation of the interlocutory decision of 20 april 2005 by the lomonosovskiy district court of arkhangelsk to seize the house. on 28 april 2008 the tsentralnyy district court of kaliningrad rejected the application on the grounds that it lacked jurisdiction to decide on a measure imposed by another court in the framework of criminal proceedings. on 4 may 2008 the bank lodged an application for supervisory review. on 18 august 2008 the presidium of the kaliningrad regional court quashed the judgment of 17 september 2007, as upheld on 19 december 2007, and ordered the seizure of the house from the applicant in order to pay m.’s debt to the bank.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in krasnodar. on 24 march 2009 the military court of novorossiysk garrison (новороссийский гарнизонный военный суд) convicted the applicant of laundering of the proceeds of crime and sentenced him to a fine. on 21 may 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command (северо-кавказский окружной военный суд) acquitted the applicant on appeal. on 21 july 2009 the presidium of the military court of the north‑caucasian command, on a public prosecutor’s initiative, annulled the judgment of 21 may 2009 by way of supervisory review and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the appeal court. the annulment was reasoned by two main arguments: (1) unresolved contradictions between witnesses’ statements pertaining to the applicant’s criminal intent, and (2) absence in the appeal judgment of a summary of the arguments presented by the prosecution during the appeal proceedings. on 6 august 2009 the military court of the north-caucasian command, acting on appeal, reversed the judgment of 24 march 2009 and remitted the case for fresh consideration to the trial court. in 2010 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were terminated due to decriminalization of his actions under the domestic law.
the applicants were claimants in civil proceedings. in the applications trapeznikov v. russia and bychkov and others v. russia, the applicants were former participants of the chernobyl clean-up operation who sued the relevant authorities for an inflation adjustment to their social benefits. in the application markova v. russia, the applicant sought the eviction of her late son’s wife and her granddaughter from the flat she was living in, alleging that she was the sole owner because her son had renounced his share in the flat in her favour. in the application ryabchikov v. russia, the applicant inherited a house in accordance with a will drawn up by his late mother. later he discovered that she had two plots of land which she transferred back in 1994 to an agricultural company to which she was a member. the applicant sought to recover the property of these two plots of land alleging that the transfer had not been duly formalised and that consequently the land formed part of his inheritance. in all of the applications, the first-instance courts found for the applicants, the judgments were upheld on appeal and they became enforceable. subsequently, at the defendants’ requests, the presidia of the relevant regional courts quashed the judgments by way of supervisory review. in the applications trapeznikov and bychkov and others, the presidia found that the lower courts failed to take into account the specific method of calculation of indexation established by the government for this particular category of social benefits. in the applications markova and ryabchikov, they concluded that the findings of the lower courts favorable to the applicants were based on the retrospective application of the law (see appendix).
on 8 april 1998 the applicant requested the bucharest commission for implementing law no. 9/1998 (the county commission) to award compensation for a property owned by his ancestors and taken over by the bulgarian state. on 15 december 2000 the commission issued a decision proposing payment of compensation in the amount of rol 2,013,957,441 (approximately eur 88,000 at the time). that decision, according to the law, had to be validated by a central commission within sixty days. as the central commission did not issue any decision, the applicant brought a court action aimed at obliging the central commission to act in accordance with the law. the applicant also asked for the amounts granted by the county commission to be adjusted for inflation when payment was made. the applicant’s action was dismissed on 17 february 2002 by the bucharest county court, which held that the sixty-day deadline was not compulsory, but rather advisory. the court also held that the adjustment of the amounts granted was indeed prescribed by article 8 § 3 of the law, but any adjustment was to be made at the time payment was actually made, once the central commission had ratified or otherwise the county commission decision. on 23 june 2003 the bucharest court of appeal allowed the applicant’s claim, and ordered that the central commission issue a decision ratifying or otherwise the proposal made by the county commission on 15 december 2000. the court held that the claim concerning the adjustment of the amounts granted as compensation was to be dealt with during the enforcement stage. on 29 august 2003 the central commission ratified the county commission decision of 15 december 2000. the compensation, representing at that time approximately eur 54,000, was paid to the applicant on 22 november 2003. dissatisfied with the decision of the central commission, on 13 december 2003 the applicant lodged a court action aimed at obtaining an adjustment of the initial amount to take into account inflation from the date on which it was established by the county commission to the date of actual payment. by a decision of 16 april 2004, the bucharest county court ruled in the applicant’s favour. the county court established that in accordance with article 8 § 2 of law no. 9/1998, the amounts set by the county commission had to be adjusted for inflation if they were not paid in the year they were awarded. on 21 february 2005 the bucharest court of appeal reversed the decision, and ruled that the applicant was not entitled to an adjustment for inflation. the appellate court concluded that the county court had interpreted the applicable law incorrectly, as the entitlement to adjustment for inflation had to be determined on the basis of the date when the central commission had ratified the decision of the county commission. as the payment had been made uno ictu, and not in instalments, during the same year as the central commission took its decision, the applicant was not entitled to an adjustment for inflation. it also concluded that the failure of the central commission to ratify the decision of the county commission within sixty days could not represent a legal basis for the adjustment of the amount in question.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in skokie, usa. on 31 august 1998 the applicant lodged a request with the bucharest commission for implementing law no. 9/1998 (the county commission) seeking compensation for assets owned by her ancestors and transferred to the bulgarian state. on 29 april 2004 the county commission issued a decision whereby the applicant was entitled to compensation of rol 4,991,284,506 (approximately eur 123,500 at the time). between 2005 and 2008 the applicant lodged several applications with the national authority for property restitution (hereinafter “the national authority”) and the president of romania for payment of the compensation. on each occasion, the applicant was informed that her file was subject to ratification by the responsible authority for implementing law no. on 20 february 2009 the national authority issued the ratification decision, confirming the applicant’s entitlement to ron 499,128.43 (approximately eur 117,000 at the time). the decision mentioned that the payment would be made in two annual instalments, as provided for by the methodological rules for the implementation of the law, in force since 30 november 1998 and amended on 26 october 2007. to date, the applicant has not received the compensation or any indication as to when such compensation would be paid.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in linz. he has been a lawyer since 1986 and he practises in linz. both were suspected of human trafficking. during the investigation proceedings, t.s. of having accepted money for facilitating the illegal entry or transit of nineteen nationals from moldova to austria or through austria to italy. was president, commissioned the applicant to represent t.s. in prison in order to prepare for the trial on that day. and had transferred to him information concerning the investigation proceedings regarding t.s. to submit the affidavit, whose contents were untrue but in favour of o.g., the linz regional court took the requested evidence and heard evidence from the applicant. on 24 september 2007, the linz public prosecutor requested the inclusion of a further file regarding the falsification of evidence in a case not related to that of o.g. the file was included in the preliminary investigation against the applicant and the requested evidence was gathered. again, it appears that no formal decision was sent to the applicant in this regard. on 5 may 2009 the applicant lodged a request with the linz public prosecutor for the discontinuation of the investigation proceedings. were still pending, the linz regional court continued criminal proceedings against the applicant and a further hearing was held on 27 april 2011, with a new judge presiding. moreover, the measure imposed upon the applicant had been proportionate. as the preliminary measure imposed on the applicant had not been a “criminal charge” in the sense of article 6 of the convention, an oral hearing had not been compulsory. on 17 june 2011, after the applicant had been acquitted on all counts by the linz regional court, he lodged another request with the bar association to have the interim measure withdrawn referring to the court’s decision. the applicant appealed on 18 july 2011 against this decision and complained about the length of time the imposed measure had already been in force. the supreme court’s judgment was served on 11 august 2014 on the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. m. and a plot of land measuring 770.3 sq. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a civil claim against several individuals, who were apparently his relatives residing in the house (hereafter, the respondents), seeking to terminate their right of use of accommodation in respect of a part of the house by paying compensation and to evict them. the applicant’s mother also lodged a similar claim. on 24 august 2006 the respondents lodged a counter-claim seeking to invalidate the ownership certificate and to have their ownership recognised in respect of the part of the house and of the plot of land used by them by virtue of acquisitive prescription. on 14 september 2006 the shengavit district court of yerevan dismissed the applicant’s and his mother’s claims and granted the respondents’ counter-claim. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of the district court. on 19 january 2007 the civil court of appeal examined the appeal and granted the applicant’s claim in its part concerning the termination of the respondents’ right of use of accommodation through payment of compensation. at the same time it dismissed the respondents’ counter‑claim. this judgment became immediately effective and was subject to appeal on points of law within six months from the date of its delivery. on 24 april 2007 the respondents lodged an appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against this judgment, claiming that it had been adopted in violation of substantive law. as a ground for admitting their appeal, the respondents submitted, pursuant to article 231.2 § 1 (1) and (3) of the code of civil procedure (the ccp), that the judicial act to be adopted by the court of cassation might have a significant impact on the uniform application of the law and that the violation of the substantive law might cause grave consequences. on 2 may 2007 the court of cassation decided to return the respondents’ appeal as inadmissible for lack of merit. the court of cassation finds that the admissibility grounds raised in the appeal on points of law[, as required by] article 231.2 § 1 of [the ccp], are absent. in particular, the court of cassation considers the arguments raised in the appeal on points of law concerning a possible judicial error and its consequences, in the circumstances of the case, to be unfounded.” this decision became final from the moment of its pronouncement and was not subject to appeal. on 19 july 2007 the respondents lodged another appeal on points of law with the court of cassation against the judgment of the court of appeal of 19 january 2007, alleging violations of substantive and procedural law. as a ground for admitting their appeal the respondents indicated, besides the grounds mentioned in their first appeal on points of law, that the contested judicial act contradicted a judicial act previously adopted by the court of cassation. on 2 august 2007 the court of cassation decided to admit the appeal for examination, finding that it complied with the requirements of articles 230 and 231.2 § 1 of the ccp. on 15 november 2007 an ownership certificate was issued in the name of the respondents in respect of 115.4 sq.
on 30 may 2003 the gjirokastra commission recognised, amongst others, the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 655,400 sq. m. the applicants and other heirs would be awarded compensation in the sum of 2,297,398 albanian leks (“all”) in respect of the entire land. on 15 september 1995 the korça commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over some land measuring 2,800 sq. since the remaining plot measuring 2,500 sq. m, which was situated within the village boundaries and used to be arable land, was occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in state bonds in the event the buildings located on the land were not privatised (“u kompensohet me obligacion shtetëror sipërfaqja 2,500 m2 ish tokë arë, brenda vijave kufizuese të zvarishtit, në rast se objektet (...) nuk do të privatizohen”). the commission stated that the applicant owned one sixths of the land. on 21 december 1998 the korça commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over another plot of arable land and meadow measuring 19,796 sq. m. since the arable land and meadow were occupied, the applicant would be compensated in state bonds equivalent to a financial amount of all 36,890. on 28 august 2000 the kavaja commission recognised, amongst others, the applicant’s inherited property rights over two plots of land totalling 17,500 sq. m. since the plots of land were occupied, the applicant and other heirs would be compensated in kind in respect of a plot measuring 10,000 sq. m and in state bonds in respect of another plot measuring 750 sq. m. no decision was taken in respect of any right to compensation as regards the remaining plot measuring 6,750 sq. on 13 december 1996 the devoll commission recognised the applicants’ inherited property rights over an agricultural land measuring 27,200 sq. m. the applicants would be awarded compensation by way of state bonds in the sum of all 367,000. on 23 june 1995 the tirana commission recognised the applicant’s inherited property rights over a plot of land measuring 836 sq. since the remaining plot was occupied, the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law. on 17 march 2008 the agency on restitution and compensation of properties amended in part the commission decision and decided that the applicant would be compensated in one of the ways provided by law even in respect of the plot of land measuring 513 sq.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). they have the same historical context and relate to the same domestic criminal proceedings. between 17 and 28 december 1989, many people, including the applicants and the close relatives involved in this case, took part in anti‑communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, slobozia, vișina and țăndărei, which led to the fall of the communist regime. they were injured or killed by gunfire during the demonstrations, which took place on 17 december 1989 in timișoara, and in bucharest and other cities across the country from 21 to 28 december 1989. in 1990, following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest and the other cities. in a number of cases concerning the events in timișoara, the investigations culminated in referral to the courts and the conviction of senior military officers (see şandru and others v. romania, no. as regards the events in other cities, the criminal investigation is still pending before the prosecuting authorities. the most important procedural steps were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41). subsequent developments in the investigation are as follows. on 18 october 2010, the military prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice decided not to institute criminal proceedings with regard to the acts committed by the military, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred and partly ill-founded. the investigation into crimes committed by civilians, members of patriotic guards, members of militia and prison staff was severed from the case file and jurisdiction was relinquished in favour of the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice. on 15 april 2011 the chief prosecutor at the military prosecutor’s office set aside the decision of 18 october 2010 on the grounds that the investigation had not yet been finalised and that not all the victims and perpetrators had been identified. on 18 april 2011 the military prosecutor’s office relinquished jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office at the high court of cassation and justice on the grounds that the investigation concerned both civilians and military personnel. on 9 march 2012 - following the opening of the classified information in the criminal investigation file to the public in 2010 - the case was re-registered with a view to an investigation in the light of the newly available data. following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office. on 14 october 2015, the prosecutor’s office closed the investigation, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty and partly ill-founded. it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences; and that some of the facts were res judicata. the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision.
the applicants were born in 1978 and 1986 respectively and live in bucharest and curtea de argeş respectively. it was organised by accept, a non-governmental organisation whose goal is to provide information and to assist the lgbti community. several individuals who had actively expressed their disapproval over the gay march were stopped by the police, their pictures taken and their identity papers checked and noted. as recommended in the same leaflet, they wore no distinctive clothing or badges that would identify them as having participated in the march. the attackers approached the victims directly and started punching them and kicking their heads and faces. one of them tried to protect the others with his body, but the second applicant remained exposed and suffered several blows. the other passengers withdrew to the opposite side of the carriage during the attack. the victims asked him to take pictures of the incident, which he did. they informed the police about the offensive remarks made during the attack. according to the applicants, the police agents were surprised when they realised that the applicants and the other victims, although gay, were affluent individuals with regular jobs and positions of responsibility. on 5 june 2006 the applicants’ representative submitted to the police several pictures of the attack taken by z.e. the photographer gave statements and was able to identify one of the perpetrators. the first applicant was also shown pictures taken by the police during the march. on 8 june 2006 the police received copies of fifteen police reports drawn up on the day of the march concerning administrative fines imposed on counter-demonstrators. as it appeared that nothing was happening in the case, the applicants sought information on the progress of the investigation by means of letters sent by accept on 25 september 2006, 28 march 2007 and 20 july 2011. on 27 april 2007 they were informed that, following the reorganisation within the police force, their file had finally been logged by the metro police station. the actions undertaken by the police to identify the other individuals remained without success. on 10 june 2011 the police stated their view that the investigation should come to an end and asked the prosecutor’s office not to institute criminal proceedings in the case. on 12 november 2012 the district court dismissed the complaint lodged against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 june 2012 as a mere reiteration of that already dealt with by the court in its decision of 9 august 2012. throughout the proceedings the applicants repeatedly sought access to the prosecution file.
the applicant, who is of roma origin, was born in 1988 and lives in gyöngyöspata, a village of 2,800 people, about 450 of whom are of roma origin. on 6 march 2011 the movement for a better hungary (jobbik magyarországért mozgalom), a right-wing political party, held a demonstration in gyöngyöspata. the president of the local roma minority self-governing body, informed the police that he and the mayor of the municipality had been threatened by people they did not know. at this time the applicant was outside the house in her garden together with her daughter and some acquaintances. one of the men continued threatening them by yelling that he would build a house in the roma neighbourhood “out of their blood”. as having participated in the incident that morning. when questioned by the police, he said he only wanted to play football with the roma children. on 7 april 2011 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against “unknown perpetrators” with the heves county regional police department, alleging offences of violence against a member of an ethnic group, harassment and attempted grievous bodily assault. the president of the local roma minority self-governing body. on 12 april 2011 the applicant was heard as a witness concerning the events. she testified that three men and a woman had passed by her house and one of them, brandishing a whip, had threatened to build a house out of her blood. on 14 september 2011 a hearing was held in the ensuing minor offence proceedings in which mr s.t. questioned as a witness, maintained that two of the persons subject to the proceedings had been wielding an axe and a whip and had threatened the inhabitants of the roma settlement that they would kill them and paint the houses with their blood. who had threatened the inhabitants of the roma settlement. the applicant, who was also heard as a witness, identified mr s.t. on 20 october 2011, in the criminal proceedings on charges of harassment, the applicant’s lawyer requested the gyöngyös district prosecutor’s office to open an investigation into “violence against a member of an ethnic group” under article 174/b (1) of the criminal code. on 2 february 2012 the gyöngyös police department discontinued the investigation into harassment on the grounds that none of the witnesses heard had substantiated the applicant’s allegation that she had been threatened. had confirmed only that threats had been made, but not that they had been directed against a certain person. and two other individuals suspected of the offences. this decision was served on the applicant on 2 april 2012, informing the applicant of the possibility to pursue substitute private prosecution proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in bucharest. in 1984, the applicant, a professional photographer, took a number of photographs of landscapes in călăraşi county that had been commissioned for commercial publication in an album. the album was not, in the event, published, but the photographs were retained by f.g., in 2004, the applicant discovered by chance that an album named “călăraşi county” had been published by a company run by f.g. he noticed that of the 143 photographs of landscapes from călăraşi county contained in the album, 135 were photographs taken by him and left in the possession of f.g. was credited as the photographer, and not the applicant. the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against f.g. had committed one of the offences provided for by articles 140‑142 of law 8/1996 on copyright and neighbouring rights (“law 8/1996”). he joined a civil action to the criminal complaint, seeking compensation amounting to eur 50,000 for pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage. on 29 june 2004, a report was drawn up by the rco following an investigation carried out at the headquarters of the company that had published the album. after finalising its investigation and concluding that the provisions of article 140 § 1 let. a) of law 8/1996 had been infringed, the rco forwarded the applicant’s complaint, together with the accompanying documents, to the călăraşi police department on 5 november 2004. on 8 november 2004, an expert report was ordered by the călăraşi police department. the report, dated 24 december 2004, confirmed that the photographs had been taken by the applicant. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the chief prosecutor. the latter confirmed the decision not to open an investigation. a complaint lodged by the applicant with the călăraşi county court was allowed on 24 november 2005. the court held that the period between 27 april 1999 (the date of publication of the album) and 25 february 2004 (the date on which the applicant lodged his complaint with the rco) was less than five years – the term of limitation provided by law. it added that the procedure stipulated by law 8/1996 was a special procedure for the punishment of offences related to copyright, which was justified by the complexity and exceptional nature of such cases. no reference was made to the civil complaint lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in cluj‑napoca. the applicant is the son and heir of mr c. pleş. he replaced his father in the domestic proceedings after his death. the applicant’s father was shot on 21 december 1989 while participating in a demonstration organised in cluj against n. ceauşescu. he was immediately hospitalised and diagnosed with “a gunshot wound in the right side of the chest, rupture of the right lung and fracture of ribs seven and eight, plus a gunshot wound in the right arm”. following surgery, two lobes of his right lung were removed. he was left with a breathing deficit of over 30%, paresis of his right arm, and a permanent disability that prevented him from continuing to work to support his family. furthermore, in subsequent years he was hospitalised many times because of serious breathing problems. criminal proceedings were instituted against the army commanders who had ordered the shooting of demonstrators during the events of december 1989 in cluj. many victims of the repression joined civil complaints to the proceedings, requesting compensation for pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage. on 17 may 2004 the applicant’s father died. he was replaced as a civil party in the proceedings by the applicant. by a judgment of 23 may 2005 the high court of cassation and justice, acting as a first-instance court, convicted five of the officers involved in the events of december 1989 in cluj. they were ordered to pay compensation jointly with the ministry of national defence to all eighty‑four civil parties in the case. the court granted the applicant rol 150,000,000 in respect of pecuniary damage and rol 50,000,000 for costs and expenses. eighteen civil parties to the criminal proceedings, including the applicant, lodged an appeal on points of law, complaining about the way in which the first-instance court had examined their claims for damages. the grounds of appeal of the civil parties were not identical. in most of the cases they concerned the amount of damages awarded. the applicant complained that the first-instance court had not granted him the requested compensation for non-pecuniary damage. by a decision of 20 march 2006, a panel of nine judges of the high court of cassation and justice dismissed all the appeals lodged by the civil parties.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in novi pazar. she was employed by dp “raška holding kompanija” ad, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 30 june 2004, 25 september 2009 and 21 december 2009 respectively, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant certain amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. these judgments became final on 15 september 2004, 20 october 2009 and 5 october 2010 respectively. on 5 october 2004 and 11 july 2011 respectively, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the novi pazar municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgments; it further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 11 september 2013 the kraljevo commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings against the debtor. on 25 october 2013 the same court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in the pravieniškės correctional home (pravieniškių pataisos namai – atviroji kolonija). on 14 june 2010 the applicant was transferred to kaunas remand prison (kauno tardymo izoliatorius). according to a document issued by that prison, the average space per prisoner in the cells where the applicant was held varied, but was sometimes less than three square metres per inmate. by a decision of 19 november 2013, the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant had missed the three years’ statutory deadline to lodge a claim for damages, because he had been released from lukiškės remand prison on 14 june 2010. the applicant appealed, arguing that he had only learned in july 2012 that his rights had been breached, when he had started communicating with his current representative before the court, mr s. tomas. he had some diagnostic tests and was treated with medications. on 31 december 2011 the applicant was issued with a certificate that he had lost 60% of his capacity for work. however, the applicant could do work that involved walking, sitting or bending. in reply to a complaint by the applicant’s lawyer, on 14 may 2012 the prison department hospital noted that it had rigorously adhered to the instructions from cardiologists of category iii medical care institutions (see paragraph 65 below). the applicant was again admitted to the prison department hospital, staying there from 27 to 29 march 2012 with digestion-related issues (haemorrhoids). the applicant’s medical record shows that a number of tests had been performed on him, the doctors concluded that his state of health was “unchanged (be pakitimų)” and “satisfactory (patenkinama)”. one of those documents also stated that because of his state of health, as seen in the light of certain legal acts issued by the minister of health, the applicant should be released from serving his sentence. in november 2012 the applicant was taken to the prison department hospital for a planned consultation with a cardiologist. he was to return for a further consultation, although the exact date was not indicated. the detention was then prolonged a number of times. moreover, there was evidence in the file that the applicant had attempted to influence other suspects, thus impeding the criminal investigation. the lawyer argued that her client would not receive proper medical assistance, as regarded his regime and diet, in the prison department hospital. she asked that a milder remand measure than pre-trial detention be ordered. the last pre-trial detention order was upheld on 19 october 2012 by the court of appeal. the applicant was to remain detained until the judgment became final.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in barnaul. in 2001 he became a suspect and then an accused in a criminal case concerning fraud. during the investigation of the criminal case the applicant was under a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence. in march 2003 the prosecutor referred the criminal case to the industrialnyy district court of barnaul (“the district court”) for trial. on 19 september 2003 the district court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial following the complaints by one of the victims and a witness about threats expressed by the applicant in their respect. on 22 september 2003 the applicant’s representatives lodged a cassation appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003 with the regional court via the district court. on 6 october 2003 the district court forwarded that appeal to the regional court and set its examination on 27 november 2003. on 8 october 2003 the district court forwarded a copy of the applicant’s appeal to other participants of the criminal proceedings and informed them that they had until 22 october 2003 to submit their comments, if any. submitted her comments on the applicant’s grounds of appeal. on 19 november 2003 the regional court received all materials related to the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 19 september 2003. on 27 november 2003 the regional court examined and rejected the applicant’s appeal. the district court subsequently extended the applicant’s detention on several occasions. on 30 september 2004 the applicant was released under a written undertaking. on 13 december 2005 the district court found the applicant guilty of fraud and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. on 18 may 2006 the regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in rostov region. he took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. he was subsequently registered disabled, and became entitled to various social benefits. in february 2003 the applicant brought proceedings claiming that his benefits should be increased in accordance with a particular method. the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was approved by the domestic courts, which in addition increased the social benefits to which he was entitled to in 2002 in accordance with this same method (judgment of 25 february 2003). in june 2003 the applicant brought a similar set of proceedings in respect of social benefits to which he was entitled to during the first six months of 2003. relying on their previous judgment by which they approved the adjustment method suggested by the applicant, the domestic courts increased his social benefits for the new period accordingly (judgment of 18 june 2003). in october 2003 the judgment of 25 february 2003 approving the adjustment method suggested by the applicant was quashed by a supervisory review court. in march 2004 the domestic courts quashed on the basis of newly discovered circumstances the judgment delivered on 18 june 2003 on the ground that it was based on the judgment delivered in february 2003 but quashed since then by way of supervisory review. both judgments, of february and june 2003, remained unenforced prior to their quashing. in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against welfare authorities claiming arrears for various benefits as well as indexation of those benefits. the zernogradskiy district court of the rostov region granted the applicant’s claims (judgment of 19 june 2006, upheld on 18 july 2006). this judgment remained unenforced for fourteen months.
the municipal unitary enterprise sysolskoye proizvodstvennoye obyedineniye “zhilkomkhoz” (муп сысольское производственное объединение «жилкомхоз», hereinafter “the company”) was set up by a decision of the administration of the sysolskiy district. it provided maintenance services in respect of municipal housing, including heating and water supply, maintenance of the sewage systems and renovation and maintenance of the municipal housing stock. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it in order to carry out its statutory activities. according to its statutory articles all of the company’s property as well as obtained profits belonged to the municipal estate. on 3 march 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic commenced insolvency proceedings and appointed an external administrator to oversee the company’s administration. on 29 september 2006 the commercial court of the komi republic ordered the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company. on 28 august 2008 the commercial court of the komi republic discontinued the insolvency proceedings and ordered the respondent company’s liquidation. the creditors’ claims, which had not been satisfied during the liquidation procedure, including the applicants’ claims, were considered as settled. on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicants brought proceedings against the debtor company seeking salary arrears and other work-related payments. on 9 august 2006 and 30 october 2006 the justice of the peace of the sysolskiy court circuit of the komi republic awarded the applicants salary arrears (the amounts are specified in the appendix, column no. 2) and compensation for non-pecuniary damage against their employer. on 10 october 2006 and 10 november 2006 respectively the sysolskiy district court upheld those judgments on appeal and they became final.
the applicants were born in 1957, 1961, 1966, 1970 and 1946 respectively and lived until their arrest in st petersburg. it was named after one of the applicants as “shutov’s gang”. all of the extensions were upheld on appeal. 7806) were transmitted to the city court, where it reached on 29 january 2001. on 13 april 2001 mr filimonov was indicted in separate proceedings for similar offences and his criminal case was transmitted to the city court and consolidated with case no. their request was not considered by the court because mr shutov was not present in court. in support of their argument, they submitted a letter from the president of the st petersburg legislative assembly stating that their archives contained no decisions by city council dated 22 june 1990, the date ms i. had allegedly been selected. on 24 september 2004 the applicants unsuccessfully challenged the professional judge and applied for an examination of their case by a jury. between 27 august 2004 and 17 february 2006 thirty-seven individuals were admitted to attend the hearings taking place in iz-47/1. mr denisov signed the warning and explained in writing that he had regularly reviewed the case documents and had done so as quickly as he could. on 6 september 2000 the head of the criminal investigation unit reported that because mr denisov had intentionally delayed the review of the case documents and had refused to review them on several occasions, he and his lawyer had been given eighty days to finish the review, and by 15 january 2001 at the latest. the court explained that since mr denisov’s lawyer g. remained on the case and was familiar with the material, k.’s request for adjournment was not justified. on 10 november 2004 the city court ruled that mr denisov would be allowed to review the transcript of the hearings from which he had been removed at the end of the deliberations. from 24 february 1999 to 17 march 2006 mr denisov was detained in iz-47/1. in particular, he stated that each detainee in his cell had only been allocated 1.5 square metres of space. the request had been granted only in part. the applicant submitted that on 3 november 2005 he had terminated his agreement for legal assistance with his two counsels z. and sh. on 27 february 2006 mr shutov filed a statement of appeal against his conviction. he did not request to be present during the hearing. (b)  mr dodonov’s request to participate in appeal proceedings 51.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is currently in detention in warsaw. on 17 january 2006 the applicant was arrested and detained on remand. he was suspected of the murder of two people and of inciting the murder of another person who had intended to testify against him in a separate set of proceedings. he was subsequently convicted several times for various offences. in particular, on 27 february 2013 the warsaw regional court convicted him of murder. on 19 january 2006 the warsaw remand centre penitentiary commission (“the commission”) classified the applicant as a dangerous detainee. the decision stated as follows:“the commission hereby decides that [the applicant] is to be placed in a designated wing or cell in a remand centre in conditions which provide increased protection for society and for the security of the remand centre. the commission approves the proposals of the directors of the protection and prison wings. the detainee has been informed of his right to appeal against the commission’s decision within seven days to the warsaw regional court, xi penitentiary division.” the last sentence of the decision contained information about who was to be informed about the applicant’s placement in a cell for dangerous detainees. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. the commission reviewed and upheld its decision to classify the applicant as a dangerous detainee on several occasions. in total, there were over thirty decisions to extend the period of imposition of the regime in respect of the applicant. in particular, a decision of 3 january 2013 to extend the imposition of the dangerous detainee regime on the applicant referred to the seriousness of the charges against him and his highly deficient moral character. an appeal by the applicant against the latter decision was the only one he made against the series of decisions to impose and extend the dangerous detainee regime on him. on 30 january 2013 the warsaw regional court dismissed the appeal. the court held that the decision had been lawful. on 21 november 2013 the commission lifted the dangerous detainee regime applied to the applicant. the applicant was kept in a cell which was constantly monitored via closed‑circuit television. he was subjected to a body search every time he left or entered the cell, which meant in practice that he had to strip naked in front of prison officers.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in the united states of america. it therefore ordered that these objects be restored at no cost. subsequent to the above judgment, on 30 may 1996 the mortgage office issued a property certificate (vërtetim pronësie – ipoteka), according to which the landowners had registered title to the plot of land measuring 56,500 sq. the domestic courts ruled in favour of the landowners. m) and ordered that they be compensated in respect of 183,500 sq. m having already been decided upon by the authorities. 604/07, 43628/07, 46684/07 and 34770/09, 31 july 2012). the claim was signed by only their lawyer. in this connection, the withdrawal of the presiding judge of the bench had not been accepted by the president of the district court and his four requests for the withdrawal of the bench were rejected, no such mention having been made in the hearing records. in his view, his spouse, who was a co-owner, should have been invited to attend the hearings. finally, he claimed that the contracts had been concluded in complete conformity with the domestic law and that there had been no need to summon witnesses. in this connection, the landowners had confirmed the applicant’s ownership of the plot of land by way of specific powers of attorney, while the applicant had lodged numerous procedural requests, applications and appeals and had attended hearings to defend his and their property rights. on the same date he requested that thirty-nine items of evidence and twenty procedural requests absent from the case-file before the district court be readmitted. on 19 february 2007 the deputy president of the court of appeal requested the minister of justice to appoint three judges from other appellate courts to hear the case, since all of its judges had sat in the proceedings. on 29 march 2007 the applicant challenged the new composition of the bench, submitting that the hcj should appoint judges from other ordinary appellate courts instead of the military court of appeal. (c)  proceedings before the supreme court 42. on 9 july 2007 the applicant appealed, raising seventy-two grounds of appeal. on 18 march 2010 the applicant lodged an eighty-three page constitutional appeal. on 15 september 2010 he supplemented it with a fifteen-page memorandum. in addition to maintaining the same grounds of appeal he had raised before the lower courts, the applicant also complained of a lack of reasoning in the supreme court’s decision and about the length of the proceedings.
the applicants were born in 1959 and 1947 respectively and live in the village of sinemorets, on the southern black sea coast. the two of them have lived as a family since 1989. the first applicant’s father and mother owned a plot of 625 square metres in sinemorets. they submitted that they put all their savings into the reconstruction of the cabin, converting it into a solid one-storey brick house. they did not apply for a building permit. the reconstruction took place in 2004-05. in 2006 two of the other co-owners of the plot formally notified the first applicant that they did not agree with the reconstruction. on an appeal by the claimants, on 7 june 2009 the burgas regional court quashed that judgment and made a declaration in the terms sought by the claimants, finding that they were the owners of 140.57 out of the total of 625 shares of the plot and the house built in the place of the old cabin. the first applicant attempted to appeal on points of law, but in a decision of 22 june 2009 (опр. the applicants used the money to buy a second-hand car. they notified their findings to the first applicant in october 2011. in october 2012 that office advised the first applicant that it had opened proceedings for the demolition of the house. the first applicant had not put forward any arguments or evidence to show otherwise. if she failed to do so in good time, the authorities would enforce it at her expense. the first applicant sought judicial review of that decision. on 10 december 2014 the burgas administrative court dismissed the claim. in a final judgment of 17 march 2015 (реш. the supreme administrative court upheld the lower court’s judgment. on 18 august 2015 the burgas municipal ombudsman urged the minister of regional development to halt the demolition on the basis that, although formally lawful, it would have a disproportionate impact on the applicants. on an unspecified date in the second half of october 2015, again after notice of the application had been given to the government, a social worker interviewed the first applicant and explained to her the possibilities to request social services.
the applicants were born in 1950, 1979, 1988, 1958, 1947, 1927 and 1932 respectively. they live in plovdiv, apart from ms asthig hampartsum bedrosyan, who lives in new york, united states of america. before her death in 2014, ms anaiys hampartsum shirin lived in burgas. in 1949 the building was declared a cultural monument. in 1966 the property was expropriated and the applicants’ ancestors received compensation. after that, the building was the subject of substantial renovation work, in particular after a fire destroyed part of it in 1978. after the adoption of the restitution of property expropriated under building planning legislation act (“the restitution act”) in 1992 (see paragraph 15 below), some of the applicants and other heirs of the original owners (from whom the remaining applicants succeeded in the course of the domestic proceedings) applied for the revocation of the expropriation. in a judgment of 9 october 1997 the plovdiv regional court upheld the administrative decision. however, in a final judgment of 2 october 1998 the supreme administrative court reversed. it found that the applicants’ property had been taken under legislation regulating expropriations made with a view to carrying out public works, namely expropriations intended to be followed by the construction of new buildings or infrastructure. the property in issue, however, had been declared a cultural monument, and had been expropriated to be used as such, thus the expropriation had been in breach of the law. in addition, the renovation work carried out after the expropriation did not represent “public works” either, as it had only aimed to preserve the building. lastly, it was noted that the property still existed. all of those factors meant that the preconditions for restitution had been fulfilled. the parties disagreed as to whether the applicants had also received compensation in the form of other property at the time of the expropriation, and whether they had to return that as well. in 2001 the applicants obtained a notarial deed, which named them as the property’s owners. after unsuccessfully attempting to negotiate an agreement, in december 2003 the applicants brought rei vindicatio proceedings against the plovdiv municipality and the fund. the action was dismissed by a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 8 june 2007. in the first place, the domestic courts found that they were competent to examine the action. according to the supreme court of cassation, the defendants to the rei vindicatio action, namely the plovdiv municipality and the fund, had not participated in the earlier judicial proceedings and therefore were not bound by the judgment of 2 october 1998.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in tallinn. he was charged with causing serious health damage. according to the charges, at 4.30 a.m. on 22 april 2006, he, together with i.j., had repeatedly hit l. on the head outside a nightclub on harju street. he had sustained serious head injuries which had been life-threatening and caused him permanent health damage. were discontinued after his death in a car accident on 25 february 2007. the county court found that the witness statements were incoherent and that some were contradictory. merely because he was a friend of the applicant. it also pointed to the lack of credibility of some of the witness statements, such as k.m. by a judgment of 30 april 2007 the county court acquitted him. he did not request a re-examination of the witnesses. the court of appeal assessed the evidence differently, based on the material in the case file, and found that the applicant’s guilt was established. ’s and k.m’s statements and identification reports as evidence. a person could only focus on a single detail rather than on the full picture. nor was her evidence discredited by her failure to recognise the applicant at the court hearing, as at court hearings witnesses were in a particularly stressful situation. similar considerations were applied to k.m., in conclusion, the court of appeal considered that k.a. it pointed to the fact that his statements, according to which the applicant had arrived at the scene after l. had already fallen to the ground, did not match any of the other witness statements. had been friends, whereas the other witnesses had had no connection with them. the court also referred in that connection to the words heard by witnesses from a person whose appearance corresponded to that of the applicant: “why then did he come to start a quarrel?”
the applicant was born in 1953 on the island of aruba. the countries of the kingdom have their own legal systems, which may differ from each other. on 31 october 1979 the first instance court (gerecht in eerste aanleg) of the netherlands antilles found the applicant guilty of the murder of a six-year-old girl on the island of curaçao. taking into consideration that the risk of recidivism is for the time being very high, even if treatment would possibly start immediately, and that, consequently, intensive surveillance is of primordial importance (such surveillance being impossible in the national mental hospital), and the fact that the defendant is not to be considered criminally insane within the meaning of the law, admission to the national mental hospital is wholly contra-indicated. although the applicant submitted that he had spent some time in the observation section, the government stated during the hearing before the grand chamber on 14 january 2015 that while he was detained in curaçao the applicant had not been placed in either unit. this wish of the petitioner ought now to be acted upon. it does not appear that the circumstances have changed. murray claims that he has behaved like a model prisoner in the course of the past twenty-two years. the antillean legislator has also never intended for this to be the case. ...” the petition for pardon to which this advice of the joint court of justice related was rejected by the governor, on the grounds set out in that advice, on 16 january 2008. in january 2011 the three judges consulted about a request for a pardon submitted by the applicant on 31 august 2010 wrote on the consultation sheet, respectively, “no grounds present”, “reject” and “reject”. a section entitled “the position of the relatives of the victim” reads as follows:“the relatives indicated at the hearing that they did not agree with a possible release of the convicted person. the relatives have told the rapporteur that they feel insecure at the mere thought of the convicted person being released. in the case of the convicted person it would have been expected that in the course of such discussions his relationship with women and the question of dealing with rejection would have been addressed. in anticipation of the periodic review of life sentences to be introduced in the curaçao criminal code, the procurator general, in a letter of 9 september 2011, requested a psychiatric examination of the applicant. that is why he is very distrustful of the people he encounters and displays antisocial behaviour. ... his social skills have similarly deteriorated and he has given up hope of his situation undergoing any change, which has resulted in [the applicant] having to cope with very negative and depressive feelings about himself and others. she had no knowledge of what had been offered to the applicant prior to that. apart from one sentence, this report is identical to the report of 24 july 2014. in an email of 29 july 2014 to the applicant’s representative, the senior social worker in the aruba prison stated that there was nothing in the prison’s medical file on the applicant, who had been transferred to aruba in 1999, to suggest that he had undergone any treatment by a psychiatrist or a psychologist.
the applicant party is a turkish political party based in ankara. 2820 on political parties (“the political parties act”). while the exact dates are unknown, it appears that the accounts were submitted within six months of the end of each respective fiscal year (that is, before 30 june) in accordance with section 74(2) of the political parties act. the constitutional court carried out a preliminary inspection on 1 july 2010 for the 2007 accounts and on 6 april 2011 for the 2008 and 2009 accounts. on 7 march 2012 the constitutional court delivered its decision regarding the final accounts of the applicant party for the year 2007, which was followed by decisions pertaining to the 2008 and 2009 accounts, both delivered on 11 july 2012. in all three decisions the constitutional court found at the outset that the income and expenses presented in the final accounts were financially accurate. under section 70 of the political parties act, ‘all expenses of a political party shall be incurred on behalf of the legal personality of that political party’ and pursuant to section 75 of the same act, ‘at the end of its inspection, the constitutional court shall determine the accuracy and the lawfulness of the political party’s income and expenses, and shall order the registration of unlawful income and expenses as revenue with the state treasury’. the expenses that were found not to have been incurred “in pursuance of the party’s objectives” and “in the name of the legal personality of the party” following a decision of the competent party organ, and those that were considered to “fall outside the party’s political activities”, covered a wide array of financial activities. they included food, pharmaceutical and accommodation expenses, including those incurred by members of the party and employees of the party headquarters or its youth branches. who appears to have hosted six dinners in 2008 in connection with election work. the constitutional court accepted two of those meals as lawful expenses in relation to party work, but rejected the remaining four without any explanation. similarly, meals offered to persons who provided various services to the applicant party, but who were legally employed by other public or private bodies, such as police officers, municipality employees, journalists or gardeners, could not qualify as legitimate expenses under the political parties act because any meal costs had to be met by the relevant person’s respective employers and not by the applicant party. the constitutional court also deemed costs for printing of business cards for employees to be unlawful, considering them to be personal expenses. another payment that was considered unlawful by the constitutional court was made to halk tv, a nationwide television channel, for the live broadcasting of political rallies and activities attended by the applicant party’s leader and coverage of the party’s parliamentary group meetings, press conferences, and important statements made by the party’s senior management, as well as the distribution of that material to other media outlets. in addition, payments made in 2009 for the lease of vehicles for broadcasting rallies organised by the party in various provinces were considered unlawful unless accompanied by the relevant lease agreements and detailed information on the exact nature of the services acquired. moreover, the constitutional court found that advance payments made to fifty-two employees in 2009 had only been partially repaid. the constitutional court requested the applicant party to submit a technical report indicating when the work had been completed and a record stating that the bus had been duly delivered. the amount deducted thus totalled approximately try 3,549,000 (approximately eur 1,527,000 on 10 january 2013). on 31 october 2012 the applicant party received a letter from the ankara governor’s office ordering it to pay the amounts indicated in the constitutional court decisions concerning the review of the 2008 and 2009 final accounts, plus interest, which totalled approximately try 3,738,700 (approximately eur 1,604,000 as at 31 october 2012), within ten days of the receipt of the letter. it refused to pay the interest, which it contested before the relevant authorities.
the applicants’ seventeen close relatives were members of an outlawed organisation in turkey, namely the maoist communist party (hereinafter “the mkp”). ökkeş karaoğlu was the eighth applicant ms hatice karaoğlu’s son;ix. very extensive injuries on the bodies of the seventeen can be seen in the footage. on 18 june 2005 between 9.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. the bodies and everything else found were photographed. on 29 june 2005, at the request of the relatives of the deceased, the prosecutor asked the forensic medicine institute to examine the clothes and bodies of the deceased with a view to establishing whether the security forces had opened fire from a distance without issuing any warning to surrender. no mention is made in the document whether the clothes removed from the bodies of the seventeen were also handed over to that non-commissioned officer. bullets and shrapnel found in the bodies were also sent for further analysis. when the ovacık prosecutor received the applicants’ complaint he wrote to the ovacık magistrates’ court the same day and informed that court of his opinion that “when taken into account that [the three applicants] are related to the deceased members of the terrorist organisation, handing over to them documents from the investigation file would endanger the investigation”. they argued that they needed those documents to exercise their statutory right to effectively participate in the investigation. they further complained that necessary precautions in the area where their daughter was killed had not been taken by the prosecutor, and the evidence in the area had thus been allowed to disappear. on 23 september 2005 the forensic medicine institute prepared its report in response to the ovacık prosecutor’s request of 29 june 2005 for the clothes worn by four of the deceased at the time they were killed to be examined. it was noted in the report that the holes observed on three of the four sets of clothes were not bullet holes. on 23 november 2005 the applicants asked the ovacık prosecutor to give them a copy of the autopsy report and a copy of the document pertaining to the examination of the clothes removed from the bodies of their relatives. between september 2005 and june 2006 a number of ballistic examinations were conducted; the ovacık prosecutor was informed at the end of those examinations that the rifles and the spent cartridges found next to the bodies had not been used in any other incident. the investigation documents, the nature of the weapons recovered, the other documents and information [in the file] and the fact that the deceased did not obey the security forces’ warning to surrender show conclusively that they were members of the mkp/hko and were acting in accordance with that organisation’s aims to change the constitutional order through armed struggle. in addition, it was openly stated in the press release issued by the terrorist organisation mkp/hko that all the deceased were members of the mkp/hko terrorist organisation. a report showing that they were members of the unlawful mkp/hko terrorist organisation and that they had carried out armed activities on behalf of that organisation and thus had committed the offence of attempting to change the turkish republic’s constitutional order, was prepared [by me] and sent to the malatya prosecutor. in order to realise their so-called ideals, terrorists make plans and act in accordance with those plans. the response of the security forces to prevent the terrorists’ so-called last mission (the traps) which caused severe damage to the terrorists’ bodies must be regarded as a lawful action carried out within the ambit of ‘self-defence’ and ‘necessity’, because they acted with the aim of protecting their own physical integrity and lives. it was considered that no offence had been committed.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in zagreb. they relied on extensive material obtained in the course of a preliminary investigation. the case immediately attracted wide media interest and coverage. the applicant contested the allegations of the police and decided not to give further evidence, stressing that he was suffering from health problems. he submitted extensive medical documentation showing that he had suffered a stroke in 2007. later on the same day, the zagreb county state attorney’s office requested the investigating judge to open an investigation in respect of the applicant on suspicion of war crimes against the civilian population, as alleged in the criminal complaint lodged by the police. the investigating judge found, on the basis of the available material, that there was a reasonable suspicion that in the period between october and december 1991, in his capacity as commander of a police unit, the applicant had ordered arbitrary arrests, ill-treatment and the killing of a number of civilians, and that, by not taking the necessary measures to prevent and punish those responsible, he had consented to a number of other arbitrary arrests, the unlawful confiscation of property, ill-treatment and the killing of civilians by his subordinates. the indictment listed twenty-two counts of arbitrary arrest, unlawful confiscation of property, ill-treatment and the killing of civilians. in a report of 14 december 2011 a court expert found that with the appropriate accommodation arrangements and medical supervision, the applicant could follow the trial. a hearing held on 29 march 2012 was adjourned to 2 april 2012 due to deterioration in the applicant’s health during the questioning of a witness. on 12 december 2010 the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody for a further day. these particularly grave circumstances of the offences concern, in the view of this panel, the manner in which the civilians ... were unlawfully and arbitrarily deprived of their liberty, how their property was confiscated without any legal basis, how they were physically and mentally ill-treated (often by the use of electric shocks) and eventually killed; and the fact that some of these unlawful acts were committed on the basis of the defendant’s orders, while the others he did not prevent although he was aware of them ...” 26. he found that some more witnesses needed to be questioned and reiterated his previous findings concerning the gravity of the charges against the applicant. the applicant appealed against that decision and on 14 january 2011 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, reiterating its previous arguments. on 9 may 2011 the investigating judge extended the applicant’s detention for a further month under article 102 § 1 (2) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion and gravity of charges), reiterating his previous arguments concerning the gravity of the charges and finding that five more witnesses needed to be questioned. the applicant appealed against that decision and on 27 may 2011 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, noting in particular that, in view of the gravity of the charges imputed to the applicant and given that he had been detained for some six months, there was still a predominant interest in keeping him in detention. it also considered that he should be remanded in custody until all the witnesses had been questioned. ...according to the indictment ... the behaviour of the accused, in the view of this second-instance court, significantly surpasses the ordinary circumstances and consequences of such offences, and represents particularly grave circumstances of the offence allegedly committed by the accused which warrant detention under article 102 § 1(4) of the code of criminal procedure. on 18 april 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint, endorsing the extension of his pre-trial detention. on 5 july 2012 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court revoked the decision on the applicant’s detention and ordered his immediate release on the grounds that, although the circumstances of the case warranted his detention, the quality of the medical treatment which he was receiving in detention was not adequate.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1950 respectively and live in ankara. according to a confiscation report drafted at 1.40 p.m. on that day and signed by ş.k. this document had the same content as the suicide note found in the car. on the same day a further fingerprint analysis report was also issued. the experts noted that only four fingerprints could be analysed and that two of them belonged to mr hüseyin başbilen. on 7 september 2006 the applicants lodged a complaint with the ankara public prosecutor’s office, asking for the scope of the investigation to be expanded. in his decision, the public prosecutor noted that the signature on the suicide note belonged to the deceased and that the letter had been found on his work computer. they complained, in particular, about the failure of the public prosecutor to take statements from their son’s wife, the psychiatrist who had been treating mr hüseyin başbilen, and other possible witnesses, to have the deceased’s computer, his emails and the transcripts of his telephone conversations examined and to determine the date the suicide note file had been created on his computer. taking into account the circumstances of the case, in particular the fact that the deceased had not been in a suicidal state of mind, the position of the deceased’s body in the car and the nature of his injuries, they considered that mr hüseyin başbilen had not committed suicide. the company officials also handed over a number of documents to the public prosecutor. on 16 march 2011 the altındağ gendarmerie commander sent a letter to the ankara public prosecutor in which he stated that the gendarmerie forces did not have any information as to the whereabouts of the usb flash drive and that it had not been possible to ascertain whether an examination of the suicide note document to ascertain its date of creation had been carried out. made a statement to the ankara public prosecutor. stated that he had not looked into when the suicide note document had been created as he had limited knowledge of information technology and as he had not received an order to carry out such an analysis. the expert also noted a number of dubious issues. the crime scene gendarmerie officers had showed the documents to aselsan officials and had asked whether they were important and should be returned to aselsan. on 21 september 2011 the deputy legal advisor at the air force command informed the ankara public prosecutor that the air force had not asked aselsan to develop software. in particular, he requested and received documents concerning his bank accounts from several banks. the residents of aydıncık village who had found the deceased’s car, were interviewed by the public prosecutor. on 26 october 2013 the ankara public prosecutor once again asked the forensic medicine institute to prepare a report regarding hüseyin başbilen’s death. on 29 september 2014 the ankara public prosecutor asked the gendarmerie command to instruct the officers in the task force to conduct a thorough investigation, to be in constant contact with the public prosecutor’s office and to provide information on the outcome, especially in view of the public interest in the investigation.
the applicants were born in 1962 and 1958 respectively and live in sisak. on the basis of the evidence obtained during the investigation, on 16 december 2011 the osijek county state attorney’s office indicted the applicants in the osijek county court on charges of war crimes against the civilian population. on the contrary, by using his authority as commander of the police units, he prevented the taking of necessary measures to identify the direct perpetrators and thereby condoned the unlawful actions of his subordinates and encouraged them to take such actions, accepting that they would continue with their actions and condoning their consequences. it acquitted the second applicant on the grounds of lack of evidence. on 10 june 2014 the supreme court upheld the acquittal of the second applicant and increased the first applicant’s sentence to ten years’ imprisonment. the applicants appealed against that decision and on 1 august 2011 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court dismissed their appeals as ill-founded, reiterating its previous arguments. the relevant part of the decision reads:“the impugned conduct of both accused, which includes ill-treatment and other extreme forms of inhumane treatment of civilians, and in the case of the accused vladimir milanković also of prisoners of war, some of whom were killed, as well as the failure to prevent such conduct by [vladimir milanković’s subordinates] ... suggests a particularly high level of brutality, mercilessness and unimaginable cruelty. the first applicant appealed against that decision to the supreme court. on 26 july 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the first applicant’s constitutional complaint, endorsing the reasoning of the supreme court. on 15 november 2012 the supreme court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that the osijek county court had correctly established all the relevant circumstances of the case warranting the extension of his detention. the first applicant challenged the decision of the supreme court before the constitutional court, arguing that his continued detention was no longer reasonable or justified. the supreme court held as follows:“it is therefore, in the view of this court, justified to remand the accused vladimir milanković in custody under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure ... in view of the fact that the purpose of detention under the cited provision is to prevent persons whose actions provoke particular moral condemnation from being at large, the appeal arguments, according to which the decision of the first-instance court with regard to the necessity of detention lacks the relevant reasoning, cannot be accepted.” on 27 september 2013 the supreme court dismissed his appeal as ill-founded, endorsing the reasoning of the osijek county court. on 7 november 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the complaint as ill-founded. the second applicant challenged that decision before the supreme court. on 27 august 2012 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court extended the second applicant’s detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (gravity of charges), relying on its previous findings as to the gravity of the charges against him (see paragraph 39 above). ’s] sons z. and b. were taken to an improvised detention camp and beaten up, after which they disappeared. in the view of this second-instance court, the particularly grave circumstances of the offence surpass the usual circumstances and consequences of such offences and thus justify the detention under article 102 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure. they are a subject of discussion before the first-instance court. the second applicant challenged the decision of the supreme court by lodging a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in chişinău. on 4 february 2011, when the applicant was about to be transferred from comrat to chisinau, he cut open his abdomen as a sign of protest. he was taken to a hospital where his wound was taken care of. the last judgment in the proceedings complained of by the applicant is dated 18 october 2011 and was issued by the comrat court of appeal. during all this time the applicant was detained in prison no. 5 in cahul (between 18 april 2011 and 8 october 2012). 13 where, according to him, the cells were overcrowded and dirty. the government provided documents according to which the applicant was seen by doctors and medication was prescribed for him. the applicant was released from detention on 12 june 2013. undoubtedly, progress has been achieved in improving conditions of detention. however, some of the institutions visited by the special rapporteur were heavily overcrowded. the authorities themselves pointed out that institution no. the special rapporteur was informed of government plans to close down this institution. whereas the special rapporteur notes that the minimum norms regarding nutrition of detainees (government decision n. 609 of 29 may 2006) are checked on a daily basis and that, according to the financial plan of the penitentiary department, the food budget for 2008 had almost doubled in comparison to 2004 and is set to rise further, he also received consistent allegations regarding the poor quality and quantity of food. ...” 7 on 19 may 2010, where six detainees were being held in a cell measuring 15.5 square metres and to cricova prison no. overcrowding comes directly within the ombudsman’s remit as part of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, which on many occasions has recognised overcrowding in the country’s prisons. ... the prisons do not conform to current national and international standards; however, the budget constraints upon the state do not allow for their reconstruction or renovation. in the prisons, with the exception of taraclia prison no. 1, detainees are held in large-capacity cells insufficiently equipped for their daily needs, namely areas for sleeping, for everyday living and for sanitary equipment. detainees are held in extremely overcrowded, dark, damp and unventilated spaces full of cigarette smoke.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in bucharest. on 11 october 2009 the ecopolis association, founded by the applicant and four other associates, opened proceedings before the bucharest district court to seek registration in the register of associations and foundations kept by that court. it also asked the court to grant it legal personality. the association’s goal, as declared in its memorandum of association (act constitutiv) and in article 2 of its articles of association (statutul asociației), was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania (promovarea principiilor dezvoltării durabile la nivelul politicilor publice din românia). by an interlocutory judgment of 24 october 2009, delivered in private, the bucharest district court granted the association legal personality and ordered its registration in the register of associations and foundations. the court held that the organisation had attached all the lawfully required documents to the application for registration and that the documents had complied both in form and content with the requirements set out by government ordinance no. moreover, the goal set by the association complied with the provisions of articles 1 and 4 of that ordinance. the bucharest public prosecutor’s office lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against the interlocutory judgment of 24 october 2009. it argued that it interpreted the association’s declared goal as belonging to the field of activities of a political party. that interpretation was supported by the association’s objectives and by the activities it planned, as set out in articles 7 and 8 of the articles of association. however, a political party could not be registered under the provisions of government ordinance no. by a final judgment of 10 february 2010 the bucharest county court allowed the appeal on points of law by the public prosecutor’s office and rejected the organisation’s request for registration. it held that the goal of the association, as declared in its memorandum and articles of association, was that of promoting the principles of sustainable development at the public policy level in romania. also, according to article 7 of its articles of association, one of the association’s objectives was to increase expertise in the development of sustainable public policies in romania. the court considered that the concepts used by the organisation had been very general and had run the risk of being understood as belonging to the field of activities of political parties. the association’s objectives could likewise have been interpreted as belonging to the realm of activity of a political party, although government ordinance no. 26/2000 expressly prohibited the use of the ordinance for the registration of political parties.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in zagreb. the applicant was a co-owner of a block of flats on the island of vir. on 2 and 23 march 2006 building inspectors of the inspectorate of the ministry of the environment, spatial development and construction (ministarstvo zaštite okoliša, prostornog uređenja i graditeljstva, uprava za inspekcijske poslove) carried out an on-site inspection of the block of flats in question. on 31 march 2006 one of the building inspectors ordered that the block of flats be demolished within three days from the date of service of the decision. the applicant lodged an appeal against the demolition order, submitting that the time-limit for compliance was too short and that the block of flats was not within the protected coastal area. on 15 may 2006 the appeal section of the legal department at the inspectorate (odsjek za postupak u drugom stupnju – “the second-instance body”) dismissed the appeal, finding that the block of flats had been built without a building permit. meanwhile, on 4 may 2006 the building inspector issued an administrative enforcement order (zaključak o dozvoli izvršenja), stating that the demolition order of 31 march 2006 had become enforceable on 6 april 2006 and that the co-owners had not complied with it within the given time-limit. he therefore ordered that the demolition be carried out by a third party after 11 may 2006, at the expense of the co-owners. the applicant lodged an appeal against the administrative enforcement order, submitting that it was not sufficiently reasoned and that the construction of the block of flats could be retrospectively approved. on 23 may 2006 the second-instance body dismissed the appeal as ill-founded. on 27 june 2006 the co-owners had the block of flats demolished. meanwhile, on 26 june 2006 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the administrative court, repeating the arguments made in her appeal and seeking damages for the demolition. since it was not clear whether the applicant was complaining about the second-instance decision concerning the demolition order or the administrative enforcement, on 11 july 2006 the administrative court requested her to specify which she wished to contest. on 30 august 2006 the applicant replied that she was seeking annulment of the second-instance decision of 15 may 2006 concerning the demolition order. on 22 april 2010 the administrative court dismissed her complaint as ill-founded, but addressed it as if it had been about the second-instance decision of 23 may 2006 concerning the administrative enforcement. on 13 july 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of her right of access to court, on the ground that the administrative court had erroneously decided a matter which had not been the subject of her administrative complaint. on 13 december 2010 the constitutional court declared the constitutional complaint inadmissible, on the grounds that the contested decision had not concerned the merits of the case and as such was not amenable to constitutional review. this decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 7 january 2011.
this application was lodged on 27 april 2007 by marina viktorovna novikova, who was born in 1972 and lives in moscow. an arrest record was compiled; the reasons for her arrest are unclear. according to the applicant, she was not informed of the hearing date until it was too late. referring to the arrest record, the offence record and g.’s report (see above), the court considered that the applicant had participated in a demonstration after which some five people and the applicant had been arrested. mr s., a journalist, was passing by and filmed the demonstration and the arrival of the police. the applicant was arrested by the police and taken to the police station. he remained there for two hours and was then allowed to leave. according to reports subsequently made by the arresting officers, the applicant had not had an identity document on him and had agreed to accompany them to the police station in order to have his identity verified and to have an administrative record compiled. on 25 may 2011 the kaliningrad regional court upheld the judgment. this application was lodged on 10 november 2012 by viktor mikhaylovich savchenko, who was born in 1967 and lives in the village of platonovo-petrovka in the rostov region. on 23 june 2011, when mr putin was visiting the village of peshkovo, the applicant staged a demonstration, standing at some distance from a road close to the village and holding a poster reading “mr putin! he arrived there and displayed his poster. after some three hours in the police station, the applicant was free to leave. on 7 february 2012 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. he is represented by konstantin ilyich terekhov, a lawyer practising in moscow. the court considered that the applicant had held a public event in the form of a meeting (митинг); some five people had gathered but then dispersed after a warning from a police officer. in september 2012 the justice of the peace allowed the applicant to pay the fine in three monthly instalments. at 1.30 p.m. on 10 november 2012 the applicant held a solo demonstration in front of the maritime university in astrakhan, to express his disagreement with the recent decision to close the university. the applicant was holding a poster that read “to close the university is to commit a crime”. according to the government, the applicant was a “participant” in a demonstration with a. 46.
the applicant submitted that he was born in 1978 in marseille. he was then taken to paphos police station for about an hour. on 17 september 2013 the wsa sent letters to the president of the republic of cyprus in which a complaint was made about the applicant’s arrest, detention and search carried out in his flat. the ombudsman replied by a letter dated 4 september 2013 that she would contact him with the outcome of her investigation into his complaint when this was concluded. following a police investigation, on 1 february 2010, the district court of paphos issued an arrest warrant on the ground that there was reasonable suspicion based on evidence that the applicant had been involved in forgery and in circulating a forged document. the applicant then replied in english: “my passport is not false, it’s real.” on 13 march 2014 the applicant was interviewed by members of the aliens and immigration office but refused to co-operate. he claimed that his detention was unlawful. it was also requested that the french embassy investigate whether the applicant was a french citizen. the conditions attached to his release were set out in a letter given to him on his release. when the prison staff informed them of their duties, the applicant reacted by stating that he did not wish to work or clean and did not co-operate, and incited the other prisoners to refuse. according to the other two statements the applicant was immobilised. the applicant was prescribed medication and directions were given for re-examination. the doctor then referred the applicant to the accident and emergency department of the nicosia general hospital. on 20 may 2013 the prison doctor noted that the applicant complained about his left ear and earache. he was examined on 22 may 2013 and the specialist noted that his eardrum was ruptured and recommended medication. on 28 may 2013 the applicant repeated his written request to the prison doctor for his medical records and x-rays. on 3 june 2013 the doctor stated that the applicant complained about pain in the right side of the chest but the clinical examinations did not reveal anything. on 18 june 2013 the prison doctor noted that the applicant should apply directly to the nicosia general hospital as prison doctors did not have in their possession x-rays and other reports issued by doctors there. on 21 june 2013, the date on which the applicant was released following the suspension of his sentence (see paragraph 42 above), he was informed by the prison guard in charge of his release that if he wished to have his x-rays he should apply directly to nicosia general hospital.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in kavadarci. in april 2000, while criminal proceedings were pending against a certain mr i.a., on 13 june 2000 the skopje court of first instance (“the trial court”) convicted mr i.a. of smuggling nearly 9 tonnes of sugar, which he had transported in the lorry in november 1997. according to the government, the court dismissed the prosecutor’s application to have the lorry confiscated, given that mr i.a. on 17 september 2003 the trial court convicted mr i.a. in the absence of an appeal, the judgment became final on 29 october 2003. had died on 21 march 2005 and that the confiscation order accordingly could not be enforced. there had been no injunction restricting the sale of the lorry. lastly, he stated that he had sought, in separate civil proceedings, return of the lorry (see paragraph 14 below). on 20 november 2006 the execution-of-sanctions judge of the trial court rejected the objection as inadmissible, finding that the applicant had no procedural standing. it further found that the applicant, as the third person from whom the lorry had been confiscated, could assume his rights under section 129(5) of the criminal proceedings act (see paragraph 25 below). in this latter context, he identified the upgrades that he had installed in the lorry. on 10 may 2007 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim. in accordance with article 68 (3) of the [criminal code], and not from the [respondent state] ...the court dismisses as groundless the argument that at the moment of confiscation of the [lorry] in question it was not owned by [mr i.a.] the court also considers groundless the [applicant’s] representative’s arguments that under section 129(5) of the criminal proceedings act the final decision for confiscation of the [lorry] could be amended with a decision in civil proceedings if there were a dispute concerning the ownership of the confiscated items, given that this provision would have been applied if the [lorry] had been sold to the [applicant] before the offence was committed and had, under any legal basis, remained in the factual possession of the convicted [mr i.a.] from disposing of the lorry or to seize the lorry at the time the offence had been discovered. he also argued that he was the bona fide owner and that he had obtained title to the lorry by adverse possession (одршка). the lorry had been confiscated nine years after the offence had been committed. on 13 november 2007 this judgment was served on the applicant.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1956 respectively and live in daugavpils. there was no smell of spirits or large plastic tanks. shortly thereafter he was handcuffed by officers and his mobile telephone was taken off him. from that moment on, he was under the constant watch of the officers and was not permitted to use the telephone. she was prevented from leaving and ordered to participate in the inspection. as regards his handcuffing, the first applicant submitted that when the officers had handcuffed him a criminal investigation had not yet been opened. at about 3 a.m. she had been approached by the vid officers, who had told her that v.g. he had meanwhile contacted a lawyer, i.b., the second applicant had noted in the record that she had not known what her role in the inspection had been. she reasoned that the inspection had been conducted in accordance with section 162 of the criminal procedure law (kriminālprocesa likums). nor the second applicant had noted in the inspection record that she had participated against her will. on 14 and 17 february 2012 the applicants appealed against the aforementioned decisions. who had arrived at about 9.30 p.m. on 17 november 2011, eighteen hours after the start of the inspection, when it had been nearing its end. between 2.50 and 9 a.m. on 17 november 2011 i.r. immediately after completion of the inspection, the applicant’s handcuffs had been removed. at 3.40 p.m. on 16 november 2011 vid officers had commenced a “control” (pārbaude) in administrative proceedings. between 9.57 and 10.56 a.m. the first applicant had been informed of his rights and questioned as a witness. in view of the information received from the vid, the first applicant had been handcuffed under section 161(1)3) and 4) of that legislation on the grounds that he had failed to comply with lawful requests made by the vid officers and to protect an object under guard from unlawful threat. at the same time, in its judgment of 14 november 2006 (in case no. this had not been examined by the prosecution service.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in rastatt. he has a daughter, h., born on 29 june 2003. the child lives with her mother, who has sole parental authority. in april 2004, the applicant lodged his first request for contact with the neustadt/weinstraβe family court. on 17 may 2006 the parents agreed on a court-approved contact arrangement. in reply, the mother requested that contact be suspended for two years. the applicant’s constitutional complaint (no. on 15 april 2011 the family court heard both parents, the child and the child’s custodian ad litem. it appointed a guardian, who was given specific directions as to how the child should be prepared for contact and how the meetings should be organised. the mother appealed against this decision. the applicant pursued his request for contact and furthermore requested that the zweibrücken court of appeal order the mother to supply regular information on the child’s development. contact with the applicant as such was not found to be damaging, but the circumstances of the conflict rendered a different solution at the moment impossible. this had been confirmed, in particular, by the court‑appointed expert. the child, who appeared to have developed properly in relation to her age, had given the impression that she knew what was at stake and what she wanted. according to him, the child had cried and left the room when he had started talking about her father. the court of appeal considered that the child’s attitude had been influenced by the loyalty she felt towards her mother, who continuously talked negatively about the father. she found herself in a psychological dilemma caused by the communication troubles between her parents, without yet having developed post-traumatic stress disorder. the parents had not undertaken any steps in this direction. by a judgment given on 6 february 2013 (no. on 18 july 2014, after its return from the ministry, the case file was presented to a judge, who ruled: “1.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently in detention in daugavpils. he had pain around the waist area and was nauseous. had entered the cell in order to calm him down. at some point, one of the officers had entered the holding cell and had kicked him in the chest, as a result of which the applicant had fallen to the floor. it stated that on 6 may 2006 (two days prior to the incident at issue) the applicant underwent an x-ray examination which revealed a fracture to his lumbar vertebrae. on 17 may 2006 the applicant’s complaint of 10 may 2006 regarding the incident was received by the internal security office of the state police (valsts policijas iekšējās drošības birojs). in the meantime, a senior inspector questioned the applicant on 5 july 2006. during the interview he had been unable to identify, from numerous photographs, the officers who had allegedly used excessive force against him. he had seen two or three officers entering the applicant’s cell and then kicking “something”. on 26 october 2006 the senior inspector closed the investigation. she found that at approximately 1.30 p.m. on 8 may 2006 the applicant had been swearing and banging on the door of the holding cell while asking the escort officers to call an ambulance for the second time. had entered the cell in order to calm him down and the applicant had attempted to hit him. while the expert report of 19 september 2006 indicated that the applicant had been diagnosed with a moderately severe injury in the form of a fracture of a lumbar vertebra, the possibility could not be excluded that this injury had been caused by the applicant’s falling against a hard object, which corresponded to the escort officers’ account of the incident. there was no evidence that the applicant had fallen against a hard object. at the scene to establish how the applicant had fallen and whether there had been any object against which he could have fallen. it was also necessary to obtain an expert report to find out whether or not the applicant could have sustained the injury prior to 8 may 2006. the deputy chief prosecutor referred the case back to the internal security office of the state police. some of them had heard noise and shouted requests for a beating to be stopped. he said he had also been hit with a truncheon. had used force against the applicant as the latter had attempted to hit him.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tetovo. on 12 april 2006, the applicant concluded a sales contract (купопродажен договор) with a sh.a., for the purchase of a concrete mixing and transport lorry (“the vehicle”) for the equivalent of 5,000 euros (eur) in macedonian denars (mkd). on 15 may 2007 the applicant lent the vehicle to his company. on 6 october 2008 the ministry of the interior temporarily seized the vehicle and its registration certificate (сообраќајна дозвола) from the applicant in order to examine the vehicle’s chassis (проверка на шасија). a record of temporarily seized objects (потврда за привремено одземени предмети) was issued. of charges of forgery of a document (“фалсификување исправа“) concerning the vehicle’s chassis number and rejected an indictment brought by a public prosecutor against a certain i.s. the court found that during the trial it had not been established that sh.a. in accordance with section 102(3) of the criminal proceedings act (see paragraph 18 below), the court further advised the applicant, who had claimed compensation in the criminal proceedings, to pursue the claim by means of a separate civil action before the civil courts. on 21 july 2010 the judgment became final. on 3 december 2010 the first-instance court heard evidence from the applicant, who stated that he had bought the vehicle from sh.a. he further stated that he could not have been aware at the time that the chassis number of the vehicle had been forged. the applicant had not known nor could he have known that the vehicle had been used to commit a crime. the court also ordered that the registration certificate be returned to the applicant. upon the public prosecutor’s appeal, on 24 january 2011 the bitola court of appeal (“the appellate court”) quashed that decision. on 22 february 2011 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s application and ordered the confiscation (се одземаат) of the vehicle and its registration certificate. for that reason and for the reasons of road safety, it was necessary to confiscate the vehicle and the registration certificate. on 11 march 2011 the applicant appealed arguing that the first-instance court had wrongly applied article 100-a (2) and (3) of the code and that he had not known that the vehicle had been used to commit a crime. specifically, it is true that [the applicant] did not know that the vehicle’s chassis had been forged, as a result of which [he] registered the vehicle as its last buyer, [he was] issued a driving licence and [he] paid a large amount. it appears that the latter decision was served on the applicant on 2 june 2011.
at the time of the events, she was living with her daughter, who was a minor, in a flat in kyiv. on 8 march 2005 criminal proceedings were instituted against b. for document forgery committed in conspiracy with others. on 11 march 2005 the shevchenkivskyy district court of kyiv issued the search warrants. only the investigator was present at the hearing. upon their arrival, the investigator and the other police officers present found that the flat was locked and that nobody responded when they rang the bell. according to the statements of the police officers, as submitted to the investigative authorities, they had contacted the applicant to inform her about the search. the police officers called a task force to open the door to the flat. the list included, among other things: floppy disks, compact discs, vehicle registration certificates, keys, a box containing cash, certificates issued in b.’s name, a painting and an icon. she also found that some items of property not included in the list of seized items were missing: four mobile phones, top-up cards for mobile phones, jewels and a bottle of whisky. on 5 july 2005 the applicant was granted victim status and her civil claim was admitted to the file. it considered that the mobile phones had not been included in the list of seized items owing to a technical mistake. it was concluded in the end that there had been no objective evidence to suggest that the police officers had neglected their duties. on 9 june 2006 the kyiv city prosecutor’s office found that the investigation into the alleged theft had not been carried out thoroughly, and had been delayed. the applicant challenged that decision in court. as of 22 july 2011 the investigation was ongoing. on 16 june 2005 the kyiv transport prosecutor, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, refused to commence criminal proceedings in relation to the possible abuse of power or ultra vires actions by the police officers during the search of the applicant’s flat. in his decision, the prosecutor referred to the statement of a police officer that the applicant had been contacted on her mobile phone and informed that the search would be carried out, and the door to the flat had only been broken down after her refusal to appear. the prosecutor also stated that the search had been carried out in accordance with established procedure; it had been observed by two attesting witnesses and the representative of the building maintenance organisation, as required by the domestic law. on 21 june 2005 the applicant challenged the decision of 16 june 2005 in court. the applicant’s contentions were dismissed as groundless.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in adana. furthermore, it took a considerable amount of time before the authorities attended the scene. when her family sought to locate her, the police denied that she was in their custody. on her release, the police threatened her and she was followed by the police over the following days. that decision was upheld by the court of cassation. admitted membership of hizbullah, and told the authorities that he had taken part in the killing of the applicant’s husband and his friend r.ç. the information obtained by the police during the investigations was forwarded to the adana state security court, which subsequently decided that it had no jurisdiction, and sent the investigation file to the state security court in diyarbakır. the prosecutor replied and informed the applicant in his letter that the investigation in question not only concerned the killing of her husband and r.ç., but the killings of seven other persons in 1994 and 1995. on 5 march 2007 the applicant made a detailed submission to the office of the diyarbakır prosecutor and informed that prosecutor about the actions taken by her in having her husband’s killing investigated. following their release they had left turkey and fled to syria. a search of the area was also carried out. was arrested in the course of one of those operations. on 9 august 2000 criminal proceedings were brought against a.a. was sentenced to a total of five years, six months and twenty days’ imprisonment. was detained in a prison between 17 july 2000 and 23 march 2006 and between 8 and 22 january 2013. was charged with the offence of attempting to undermine the constitutional order. on 30 december 2009 the diyarbakır assize court handed down its 1,153-page judgment. were remanded in custody on 31 january 2000 and kept there until their conditional release was ordered on 3 january 2011 by the court of cassation, which noted that they had been in custody for longer than the ten-year period allowed by statute. as the investigation did not concern only the killing of her husband but also those of a number of other individuals, the applicant was only provided with copies of those documents which concerned the killing of her husband.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in zagreb. who was a war veteran, killed the applicant’s mother and her parents and then committed suicide. on 19 june 1996 his request was dismissed by the competent zagreb office of the ministry of defence (ministarstvo obrane) in charge of war veterans’ affairs on the grounds that the war veteran status of his father had not been established. in july 1996 the applicant challenged that decision before the ministry of defence, which accepted his appeal and on 12 december 1997 quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case for re-examination on the grounds that the nature of the applicant’s request had not been adequately established. on 8 november 2005 the zagreb office dismissed the applicant’s request on the grounds that nothing from the materials available in the case file suggested that the death of his father was a result of his participation in the war. it also questioned two witnesses concerning the applicant’s father’s wartime service. this expert report was not forwarded to the applicant. on 26 september 2007 the zagreb office dismissed the applicant’s request for the family disability benefit referring to the centre’s expert report, which had not established any link between his father’s suicide and his participation in the war. he alleged that the centre’s report was superficial, since it had not been commissioned with regard to all aspects of the events, such as the triple murder committed by his father. the applicant further contended that another expert report should be commissioned from one of the permanent court experts in psychiatry, since the report produced by the centre raised the issue of its independence. he also stressed that any expert opinion on the matter should necessarily be forwarded to him for comments before the adoption of a decision. he pointed out that the proceedings had already lasted excessively long and that the administrative bodies had failed to comply effectively with the previous instructions of the administrative court. the applicant also contended that, if the administrative court did not decide the case on the merits, it should quash the ministry’s decision and remit the case for re-examination. on 4 december 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action as ill-founded. the defendant therefore correctly dismissed the appeal against the first-instance decision and thereby it did not act contrary to the relevant law. although the defendant did not expressly reply to the appeal arguments concerning the necessity to request a report with regard to [ž.l. ’s] act of triple murder, [the court finds] that it could not be a decisive factor for a decision in the proceedings at hand. this is because such a criminal act cannot be a basis for the establishment of a link between the death of the war veteran and his participation in [the war]...” 20. on 27 may 2010 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded, noting that:“in his constitutional complaint, the complainant was unable to show that the administrative court had acted contrary to the constitutional provisions concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms or had arbitrarily interpreted the relevant statutory provisions. the constitutional court therefore finds that the present case does not raise an issue of the complainant’s constitutional rights.
the applicant was born in 1992, and at the time of the introduction of the application was detained in lyster barracks detention centre, in ħal far. the return decision also informed the applicant that her stay was being terminated and that she had the possibility to apply for a period of voluntary departure. the board notes that you travelled to libya in december 2011, first via kenya and then via sudan. in none of these countries did you consider applying for refugee status. however, you also claim that if there was peace back home, you would be prepared to return. in practice malta effected no removals to somalia or somaliland. ever since her arrival in malta the applicant suffered from several medical problems, such as headaches, earaches and fainting, and was frequently hospitalised (see paragraphs 16-19 below). she had several appointments in hospital was also taken to emergency by ambulance after collapsing in detention. sagal was also rejected by the office of the refugee commission, causing her to be very depressed. every time we visit she is in her bed crying and showing signs of severe anxiety.” in december 2012 the applicant was interviewed (for a few minutes) by the vulnerable adults assessment team of awas, with a view to determine whether she should be released on the grounds of vulnerability. her impression is that she was verbally informed that she would be released. however, in spite of the fact that this procedure can have a determining impact on the continued detention of individuals detained in terms of the immigration act, it was not adequately regulated by law or by publicly available rules or procedures. forms were distributed to individuals working in the sector such as ngos. the government submitted that the vulnerable adult assessment procedure was a quick process in straightforward cases (such as pregnant women and families with very young children) which were usually determined within two weeks. she suffered “fits” and was waiting for an appointment. in none of these occasions was she kept under observation overnight, or hospitalised. an attestation issued by a doctor in may 2013 states that according to available records “she has stayed unwell and been treated or referred to mater dei hospital [the state hospital] more than usual” and that “her health has posed challenges in keeping her at the ħal far detention centre and any assistance will be appreciated”. she noted that zone d was less crowded but that it still lacked privacy and sanitation. the applicant highlighted the lack of female staff - in particular she noted that every morning male soldiers barged into her dormitory while the inmates were still asleep to make a head count, during which they removed the sheets to check for their presence.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in turkey. he feared, in particular, that if he stayed in uzbekistan, he would face persecution from the state authorities, and would eventually be imprisoned and tortured like some of his fellow muslim friends. in support of his allegation of the risk of ill-treatment in uzbekistan, the applicant submitted a copy of a list of persons who had been charged with offences against the state. he claimed that the threats had been a response to certain disagreements with the iranian authorities over their living conditions. on 18 november 2007 the applicant entered turkey illegally through van and went to ankara to apply for refugee status at the unhcr. following a preliminary interview, the applicant was referred to the unhcr office in van. the van office issued him with an asylum seeker certificate. subsequently, he registered with the van police headquarters and started the domestic temporary asylum procedure. once at the police station, some twenty-nine asylum seekers, including the applicant, were placed in detention. their personal items, including identity documents, money and telephones, were confiscated. the asylum seekers contacted some other uzbeks who had managed to escape deportation from turkey and obtained the ransom fee. they requested legal advice from the van bar association, which, along with two turkish non-governmental organisations, published a report on 28 september 2008 regarding the uzbek asylum seekers’ collective expulsion. the same evening, they were deported to iran once again. the unhcr also informed the applicant’s representative that on 26 september 2008 they had sent a letter to the turkish authorities requesting the latter to take the necessary measures to grant the applicant and other uzbek nationals who had been deported on 12 september 2008 residence permits with a view to legalizing their status in turkey pending the completion of the procedures with regard to their cases. he has not received any information from the turkish authorities as to his request for asylum. when the applicant applied for asylum in turkey in december 2007, he informed the authorities that he had been granted refugee status in iran by the unhcr. on 14 february 2008 the applicant left van and returned there on 26 august 2008. he subsequently repeated his asylum request. he was subsequently deported to iran, a safe third country, where he was recognised as a refugee by the unhcr. according to the government, the applicant was not deprived of his liberty.
the applicant was born in 1982 and until his arrest lived in moscow. however, the person had had no intention of selling the equipment or returning the money. on 24 january 2013 the applicant was accused of aggravated fraud. on 16 july 2013 he was arrested and taken to a police custody facility. on 19 august 2013 the moscow city court (“the city court”) upheld the detention order on appeal after examining his recent medical documents, stating that his health did not preclude his detention on remand. lastly, the court noted the complexity of the case and several steps in the investigation which had yet to be performed, including some which required the applicant’s presence and participation. it also addressed his arguments that he had become paraplegic and thus no longer posed a flight risk. according to the government, he was placed in a cell which measured 26.96 square metres and housed four other inmates. subsequently he was transferred between less spacious cells, which he shared with two or three inmates. throughout his detention he slept on an individual prison bunk. he spent the major part of his day in bed being assisted by his cellmates. they took him for walks in the prison yard, carried him to the toilet and washed him with wet towels, which was their way of showing that they were annoyed with his helplessness. his health improved, but not significantly. however, his conditions still did not reach the level of severity to warrant his release. there is nothing to suggest that his treatment was interrupted during that period. in a report dated 11 february 2014 the specialist stated that the applicant’s conditions required enhanced medical attention and inpatient treatment that could only be performed in a neurological medical facility. on 14 february 2014 the applicant was taken to remand prison no. on 1 march 2014 he was sent to serve his sentence in a correctional colony in kostroma, over 300 kilometres away. the journey to the destination, the town of yaroslavl, took approximately five hours. after another two hours the train departed for kostroma.
the applicants were born in 1968 and 1973 and live in belgrade (the first applicant) and skopje (the second applicant). on this occasion, the second applicant confirmed that he had known the first applicant for many years and that on 29 december 2006 she had contacted him regarding the transportation of acrylic paint from bar to greece. on 6 january 2007 he had arrived at blace border crossing. on 13 january 2007 she was arrested in serbia and detained pending extradition in the respondent state. on 9 may 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer requested permission to inspect the case file. the first applicant denied that she was aware that drugs had been planted in the cans. j. also had given her the contact details of a buyer in greece regarding paint from a third container (the subject of the proceedings) and the telephone numbers of n.v. the montenegrin forwarding agent, and after the cargo had been loaded onto the truck, he had left for pec, where the truck had been searched twice using police dogs. she asked me to prepare documentation so that the container would be transported to greece, to thessaloniki instead of to belgrade ... i do not know [the applicants]. on 12 october 2007 the montenegrin ministry of justice forwarded the transcript of n.v. that handled containers ... i called n.[v.] both witnesses gave their evidence under oath and were warned of the consequences of false testimony. on 8 january 2007 43 packages were brought into the laboratory. 1399/07), the relevant parts of which read as follows:“in order to determine the nature of the substance and in accordance with the recommendations of enfsi (european network of forensic sciences institutes) and undcp (united nations drug control program) regarding the analysis of multiple samples, 27 randomly-chosen packages ... were analysed ... out of the total number of packages (432) ...the net weight of the material taken from the analysed packages was 27.30 kilos ...on the basis of the analysis made, it is confirmed that the analysed material taken from the packages was cocaine. 1399/07 was presented at a hearing dated 15 november 2007 in the presence of the applicants and their representatives. then, certain packages that were randomly chosen and were fully analysed using all methods ...asked by the judge whether in the preparation of the expert report commissioned by the court the expert had received any instructions from anyone, including their superior, she replied:‘i drew up the expert report commissioned by the court, as well as the earlier reports, in good faith and according to my best knowledge. [ on 4 january 2007, 882 plastic cans of acrylic paint were loaded onto [the truck]. they reiterated that the experts had not been independent (given that the bureau had operated within the central police forces unit) and in this respect they referred to the court’s judgment in the stoimenov case (see stoimenov v. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, no. 1399/07) had been ordered by the court, that the expert findings had not been called into doubt, and that they had been confirmed at the hearing by the experts, who had been warned about the consequences of false testimony. the first applicant complained that it had not been established (or indicated in the operative part of the trial court’s judgment) that the drugs had been transported for the purpose of selling them.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in nazran, the republic of ingushetia. at 7 second darvina lane in the leninskiy district of grozny. at that very moment she had heard a woman scream. between february and may 2010 the investigators also questioned construction workers mr a.yu.zh., between february and may 2010 the investigators also questioned seven police officers from the argun ovd, all of whom stated that at about 4.30 p.m. on 31 october 2009 ten officers from their police station had been sent to 7 second darvina lane following a tip-off that mr a.kh., shortly thereafter something had exploded inside the house and there had then been intensive gunfire. an officer at the gate had ordered him to leave. on 1 december 2010 (the date on the document appears to be incorrect, see paragraphs 59, 64 and 94) the investigators questioned the chechen president mr kadyrov, who stated that “many” special operations had been conducted in the chechen republic around that time and that the heads of the law-enforcement agencies reported the results to him. 66094 instructing them to, amongst other things, verify the law-enforcement agencies’ conduct of the special operation on 31 october 2009 and question its participants concerning the details. chief of the department of the interior mr ir., to the present date no reply has been given. mr i.g and mr r.akh, who participated in the operation and whose identities were established by the investigators, refused to give statements to the investigation ...thus, at the time of writing the investigation either does not have information concerning the persons who participated in the special operation (their names, service positions and ranks) or documents confirming its lawfulness. on 5 april 2010 the investigators reported to their superiors that they had been unable to interview mr kadyrov, who had been in charge of the special operation on 31 october 2009. on 4 april 2011 the experts reported that there had been no matches. on 14 june 2011 the investigators obtained two dvds from the chechen mvd information centre containing the video footage of the special operation on 31 october 2009 and incorporated them into the investigation file as evidence. the relevant part reads as follows:“... it has been established by operational-search measures that at about 3.30 p.m. on 31 october 2009 servicemen from the argun ovd, the 8th company of the 2nd regiment of the traffic police and the head of the argun town administration security service conducted a special operation, as a result of which an active member of illegal armed groups, mr a.kh., on 11 january 2010 the investigators requested that the time-limit for the investigation in case no. on 15 july 2011 the investigation was again resumed but suspended on 15 august 2011. on 27 march 2010 the applicant provided another statement to the umg lawyers. who stated that on 31 october 2009, after the events at the applicant’s house, he had taken the applicant to the leninskiy rovd in grozny.
on 31 october 2002 the bucharest commission for the enforcement of law no. the land was located on v. street, in bucharest. the applicant informed those authorities that on 17 september 2007 the sdc had, by letter, dismissed his request for the removal of the fence built by his neighbour. moreover, he asked the court to require the mayor to arrange for the removal of the fence without the owner’s consent if the fence’s owner ignored such removal notice. he stated inter alia that in its letter to him of 17 september 2007 the sdc had indicated that the neighbour who was the target of his complaint had had a building permit for the fence. consequently, their findings had had no bearing on his claim. moreover, his requests of 23 november 2007 had not received any answers. on 9 may 2008, at the first-instance court’s instruction, the applicant specified his court action. given that the street in question had been used by several other property owners, the applicant would have had to identify the person unlawfully occupying part of the street before the authorities could have acted. moreover, it dismissed the aforementioned authorities’ claim that they lacked legal standing (capacitate procesuală pasivă) on the ground that the street ensuring access to the applicant’s property was on the public domain which was managed by them. but the neighbour whose property had been located opposite his who had blocked the street by building the fence. consequently, he had been unable to use that property for its practical purpose – namely, to build a home. the authorities had not asked him to provide the name of the owner of the fence; indeed, it was the duty of the public servants – not the applicant – to inform the mayor of bucharest of the impugned person’s identity. 5) that, inter alia, his complaint concerning the occupation of part of v. street had concerned not c.m. but the unidentified neighbour whose property was located across the street from c.m. on 19 september 2008 the public domain administration attached to the office of the mayor of bucharest district no. by a final judgment of 3 november 2008 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law against the judgment of 17 june 2008. had been the owner of the land to which the applicant had been referring. it followed that the administrative authorities had not unjustifiably refused to address the applicant’s complaints, as those authorities had not been competent to issue orders in respect of a third party’s private property. the applicant had argued before the judicial authorities that the administrative authorities had been mistaken as to the identity of the owner of the fence; however, he had failed to inform them of the alleged mistake in order that they might clarify the situation.
on 11 august 2000 the vukovar county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u vukovaru) asked an investigating judge of the vukovar county court (županijski sud u vukovaru) to open an investigation in respect of the applicant, in his capacity of the director of company m., in connection with suspicion of several charges of economic crime. in the resumed proceedings, and after the 2010 confiscation of the proceeds of crime act (see paragraph 36 below) had entered into force, on 27 june 2012 the vukovar county state attorney’s office requested the vukovar county court that several items of the applicant’s real property be seized (ten plots of land, two houses and a commercial building) so as to secure effective enforcement of a probable confiscation order in the amount of approximately eur 1,060,000. on the basis of an order of the vukovar county court, the seizure of the applicant’s real property was registered in the land registry. he contended that he had taken a bank loan which was secured by a mortgage on his real property and that the loan would not be extended due to the seizure of his property, which could lead to his total bankruptcy and destruction of his business. in support of his request, the applicant submitted email correspondence with the bank asking him to clarify when the seizure order would be lifted, as it affected the management of his loan. under section 11 § 1(a) in conjunction with section 31 § 2 of the confiscation of the proceeds of crime act (official gazette no. on 12 november 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal before the supreme court challenging the decision of the vukovar county court ordering the seizure of his property. he contended in particular that the value of the restrained property was according to his provisional estimate more than hrk 20,000,000 (approximately eur 2,600,000), which significantly surpassed the pecuniary gain allegedly obtained by the commission of the offences which were the subject matter of the proceedings. the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on 27 december 2012. on 20 february 2013 the applicant requested the vukovar county court that the seizure order be lifted or reassessed. he argued that there were other less restrictive means of securing the enforcement of a possible confiscation order, and contended that it had not been alleged that the seized property had been obtained by a criminal activity. he also urged the vukovar county court to make an assessment of the value of the seized property so as to limit the scope of the restraint to the value of the pecuniary gain allegedly obtained. he also contended that the value of the seized property significantly surpassed the alleged pecuniary gain obtained, which had endangered the normal functioning of his business. according to this estimate, the total value of the seized property corresponded to some eur 9,887,084. on 17 october 2013 the supreme court, acting as the appeal court, dismissed the applicant’s appeal by noting the following:“the same complaints had been made against the decision of 30 october 2012 ... and then it was answered to the appellant that the principle of proportionality had not been breached ... by a speculative assessment of the value of the real properties listed in the appeal, the appellant did not manage to put into doubt the findings of the first-instance court. the applicant challenged this decision before the constitutional court and on 7 february 2014 the constitutional court declared it inadmissible, reiterating its previous reasoning (see paragraph 25 above). at a closing hearing in the criminal proceedings before the vukovar county court on 8 july 2014, the applicant again requested that the seizure order be lifted. the applicant was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment and confiscation of the amount of hrk 1,800,857.74. the case is pending on appeal before the supreme court. on the same day the vukovar county court dismissed the applicant’s request for lifting of the seizure order made at the hearing on 8 july 2014 (see paragraph 30 above) as ill-founded on the ground that the seizure of the property could be maintained for sixty days following the relevant procedures related to the finality of the judgment.
the applicant, mr michał ojczyk, is a polish national who was born in 1977 and is currently in detention in łódź remand centre in poland. the applicant submitted that he had been detained in łódź remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 26 april 2010. in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in the remand centre from 17 august 2005 to 17 july 2008 and that from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 he had been detained in łódź prison. from 13 august 2009 to 8 january 2010 the applicant had been at liberty on a temporary release, while from 8 january to 26 april 2010 he had again been detained in łódź remand centre. from 17 august 2005 to 17 july 2008 and from 8 january to 26 april 2010 the applicant was detained in łódź remand centre. the figure shows the degree by which the number of prisoners exceeds the maximum allowed capacity of a particular detention facility, which, in turn, is calculated on the basis of the standard of 3 sq. m of cell space per prisoner provided for in polish law. overall capacity at łódź remand centre was exceeded on average by 26.8% in that period. m and the occupancy rate fluctuated between two and six people. the applicant was detained with a person infected with the hepatitis c virus for three weeks in august 2005. he alleged that the cells had been badly ventilated. it appears that the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. the overall capacity of łódź prison from 17 july 2008 to 13 august 2009 was exceeded on average by 10.4%. he claimed 290,000 polish zlotys (pln – 37,500 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 28 april 2010 the łódź regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s action. the court found that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 17 august 2005 to 26 april 2010. the state treasury, represented during the proceedings by a professional lawyer, did not submit any objections neither to the period nor to the indications of the prison facilities in which the applicant had been held. the court held that the award was adequate redress for the period in which the applicant had been detained in permanently overcrowded cells. the government attached to their observations a postal slip confirming the february date for the posting of the opinion to the applicant at łódź remand centre. the applicant submitted a certificate to the court issued by łódź remand centre confirming the above dates.
the applicants, mr gergely karácsony, mr péter szilágyi, mr dávid dorosz and ms rebeka katalin szabó, were born in 1975, 1981, 1985 and 1977 respectively and live in budapest. mr zoltán cséfalvay, the secretary of state for the national economy, was replying on behalf of the government when the applicants mr karácsony and mr szilágyi carried into the centre of the chamber a large placard displaying the words “fidesz [the party in government] you steal, you cheat, and you lie.” subsequently, they placed it next to the secretary of state’s seat. interventions from the government mps: - rules of procedure! constant interventions from the government mps. i request the ushers to remove the placard. ( interventions from the government mps: how could they get that in? – [ no other reasons were given in the proposal. on 21 may 2013 during the final vote on bill no. i ask my colleagues to untie and remove the banner. ( on 24 may 2013 the speaker submitted a proposal to fine mr dorosz and ms szabó huf 70,000 (eur 240) each for their conduct, as recorded in the minutes and considered to be gravely offensive to parliamentary order, in application of sections 49(4) and 49(7) of the parliament act. the plenary adopted the proposal on 27 may 2013 without debate. on 21 june 2013 parliament held a final vote on a new law, bill no. the legislative proposal was quite controversial and generated heated reactions among opposition members. the minutes of the session read as follows:“speaker: the next point on the agenda is the vote on the amendments submitted prior to the final vote on the transfer of agricultural and forestry land bill and the final vote. strong applause from the ruling parliamentary group). i request parliament to confirm that since the members of jobbik are not allowing the vote by roll call to take place, we shall cast our vote electronically. ( interventions from the same side: hurray!). szilvia lengyel uses a megaphone to speak. i have to warn you as well that your methods are unacceptable under the rules of procedure.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in moscow. some of the applicant’s assets, specifically his flat, parking spaces and three cars, were frozen. on 21 june 2001 the investigation of the criminal case against the applicant was terminated and he began examining the case file. however, on 26 september 2001 the investigation resumed. on 26 september 2001 the prosecutor general’s office of russia decided that in view of the seriousness of the charges faced by the applicant, the risk of his absconding, as well as the necessity to “secure the enforcement of the conviction” the applicant should be placed in pre-trial detention. 20 owing to a provisional diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction, arterial hypertension and an exacerbating duodenal ulcer. he stayed there until 20 november 2001, following which he was transferred to a remand prison. the attending doctor found the applicant fit to participate in the investigative actions. on the same date the applicant brought an application for release. he argued that there was no indication that he would abscond or otherwise obstruct the administration of justice: the applicant had no criminal record; he had a family, a permanent job and a permanent place of residence, and he suffered from a number of chronic cardiovascular and surgical diseases; the choice of a custodial measure had thus not been justified. on 20 november 2001 the moscow city court upheld the above decision on appeal. on 22 november 2001, 21 january and 9 april 2002 the deputy prosecutor general extended the applicant’s detention until 28 january, 28 april and 28 june 2002 respectively. meanwhile, on 15 january 2002 the forensic medical expert did not confirm the applicant’s medical diagnosis. the moscow presnenskiy district court repeatedly extended the applicant’s detention pending trial. such extensions were granted upon the prosecutor’s request on 16 december 2002, 19 march, 23 june, 24 september, 23 december 2003 and 24 march 2004. those decisions were upheld on appeal by the moscow city court on 21 january, 27 may, an unknown date and 3 december 2003, 23 march and 29 april 2004 respectively. on 26 may 2004 the moscow presnenskiy district court sitting in a bench composed of judge f. (presiding judge), ms kh. lay judges) convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment. in reply to the applicant’s argument regarding the alleged unlawfulness of the composition of the trial court, the city court held that the composition of the court had remained unchanged throughout the trial in accordance with article 242 of the code of criminal procedure, and that the participation of lay judges, who had also been involved in the examination of another case, had had no legal consequences and had not amounted to a violation of the law. on 9 march 2005 the sukhinichskiy district court, kaluga region, ordered the applicant’s conditional early release.
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in a correctional colony in the republic of bashkortostan. on 27 january 2005 the investigator again ordered a review of the applicant’s medical file by a forensic medical expert. in the meantime, on 27 april 2005 the investigator appointed a panel to conduct a forensic medical examination of the applicant. the left wrist position is typical for radial nerve lesion – “wrist drop”. unidentified people had started stretching the applicant out, asking him about money and firearms. he had spent seven days in the cottage, during which time he had been repeatedly subjected to torture. on 23 november 2004 the applicant and yam., had been taken to the organised crime department. similar to that of the applicant above;-  a report by chief police officer s., who submitted that on 23 november 2004 police officer d. had contacted him and asked him to assist him in the arrest of the applicant and yam.; who submitted that in september 2004 m. bor. the investigation had been entrusted to the organised crime department. in the course of operational proceedings it had become apparent that the applicant, yam., no physical force had been applied to them and they had not been subjected to any pressure;-  explanations by m. bor. ’s physical injuries;-  explanations by yam. the applicant’s wife further asked that medical assistance be provided to the applicant who had been in a very bad state of health;-  the reply from the prison hospital where the applicant had been examined in the neurological unit and given the following diagnosis: “mentally healthy, simulation of neurological condition. as the applicant could not walk, he was assisted by two officers from the organised crime department. on 19 august 2005 the district court ex post facto authorised the applicant’s detention until 25 july 2005. on 19 january 2007 the supreme court upheld the above decision on appeal. the court found no reasons to alter the custodial measure in respect of the defendants and, in so far as the applicant’s health was concerned, mentioned that the forensic medical report contained in the case file indicated that the applicant was simulating the symptoms of neurological conditions and that there was nothing to prevent him from participating in the proceedings. on 2 december 2006, in the course of a preliminary hearing in the applicant’s case, the investigator gave an interview to the local newspaper the tyumen courier (тюменский курьер) in which she referred to the applicant and his co-defendants as a criminal gang and expressed her opinion on the issue of their guilt.
the applicant, ms gabriele fürst-pfeifer, is an austrian national who was born in 1964 and lives in mödling. specialised in the psychological examination of children and adolescents, her focus is mainly on custody and contact-rights-related disputes. on 23 december 2008 an article was published in “meinbezirk.at” as well as in the print version of bezirksblatt, which stated as follows:“the quality of experts in the spotlight (gutachterqualität im visier)disclosed: court expert for custody proceedings a case for therapy(aufgedeckt: nö sorgerechts-sachverständige selbst ein therapie-fall)suffering from up-and-down mood swings, panic attacks, suicidal thoughts and hallucinations, together with paranoid ideas – but working as a court-appointed expert. in the course of those proceedings the applicant’s mental status was also set to be examined. on 14 january 2009 the applicant lodged an action with the st. she sought damages under section 8a of the media act (mediengesetz) and the publication of the judgment claiming that the article and in particular the passages dealing with the psychological expert report on the applicant had violated her intimate personal sphere and compromised her publicly. however, she did not argue that the expert report had been obtained unlawfully. furthermore, the publisher was to bear the costs of the proceedings. the court found that an average reader would understand the article as putting the expert opinion from 1993 in direct relation to the applicant’s work as an expert now, thus questioning the quality of her work. the incomplete and manipulative content of the article was not able to meet the standards of reporting on matters of fact. the publisher appealed on points of law and fact, as well as against the sentence (berufung wegen nichtigkeit, schuld und strafe). considering the importance and sensitivity of the area of custody proceedings and the dominant role of experts in the field, the psychological integrity of an expert assigned to those cases had to be beyond doubt. that judgment was served on the applicant’s representative on 17 december 2009. in the meantime the applicant lodged an action with the innsbruck regional court on 7 april 2009. the court found that the average reader would understand the article as stating that the applicant was incapable of being an expert in custody proceedings because of her own mental health impairments in 1993 and that this placed in question the quality of the applicant’s work so far. the present article not only mentioned the applicant’s mental health status, but also grossly exaggerated individual symptoms, which was also capable of compromising her. there was no connection between the applicant’s work at present and her mental health status years ago. the article did not indicate however that the applicant was not competent to exercise her profession as a psychological expert. furthermore, the published information was true. insofar, a truthful report linked to a person’s public status, which also contained information belonging to the intimate personal sphere must be permitted to be published.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kazan. on 24 november 2006 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan (ново-савиновский районный суда города казани) acquitted the applicant on four counts of drug-dealing, convicted her on one count and sentenced her to eight years’ imprisonment and a fine. on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of republic of tatarstan (верховный суд республики татарстан) upheld the judgment on appeal with minor changes. on 2 july 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgment on the applicant’s request, because she was formally indicted outside the prescribed statutory time-limits. on 15 october 2008 the novo-savinovskiy district court of kazan acquitted the applicant on the same grounds after re-calculation of the applicable time-limits for investigative actions. on 18 november 2008 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan upheld the judgment on appeal. on 18 february 2009 the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan in supervisory review proceedings annulled the judgments on the prosecutor’s request. the annulment was reasoned by three main arguments: 1) in the opinion of the supervisory court all of the evidence was collected within the statutory time-limits, 2) the lower courts having examining all the evidence during the hearings did not mention them in the judgments and only gave reasons for dismissing them, and 3) formal indictment of the applicant outside of the statutory time-limits should not have led to acquittal in any event. on 9 october 2009 the applicant was convicted, sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and fined.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. before his arrest the applicant lived in odessa region with his mother. he was certified as third-degree disabled, the lowest category. in his written observations submitted to the court on 23 february 2012 in reply to those of the government, the applicant’s lawyer stated that police officers had “wrung the [applicant’s] hands and feet and hit him on the body, including the areas of his liver and kidneys, and on [his] arms and legs”. the applicant had been fishing from the opposite bank of the pond. a. had seen that p. had approached the applicant and they had gone into some bushes. the applicant’s case was referred to the kominternovskyy district court of odessa for trial. on 26 july 2005 the applicant asked the authorities to appoint him a lawyer. this request was granted on an unspecified date still in august 2005. during one of the hearings the trial court questioned the victim, p., who stated, without indicating the exact dates, that the applicant had raped him several times between september 2004 and april 2005. he said that he had been raped only by the applicant and not by other persons. witness a. told the court that he had seen the applicant raping p. on 10 april 2005 in some bushes near the pond. p.’s mother also said that the applicant’s mother had told her that p. had come to the apartment where the applicant lived and the applicant’s grandmother had ousted him. all of those witnesses were questioned by the trial court in the presence of the applicant and his lawyer. it remains unknown why he was not brought to the court-room for the hearing. the conclusions reached by the first-instance court had been supported by sufficient evidence, in particular the statements of p. and other persons questioned during the trial. the court of appeal did not question any witnesses; nor did it administer or assess any new evidence. the applicant did not seek the assistance of any other lawyer. the applicant did not follow up on the request. on 27 november 2007 the court asked the applicant to send to the supreme court a repeated request for copies of the same documents (see paragraphs 38 and 40 above), indicating that he needed them to support his application before the court.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in barking. the applicant arrived in the united kingdom on 7 january 2003. he claimed asylum on 15 january 2003 but his claim was refused by the secretary of state for the home department on 15 march 2003 and his appeal against that decision was refused on 1 october 2003. the applicant was re-arrested on 16 january 2005. on 31 march 2005 the applicant was served with the decision to make a deportation order. the deportation order was signed on 4 august 2005 and served on him on 12 august 2005. it appears that the home office thereafter proposed to submit copy documents. on 8 january 2008 an authority was issued for the applicant’s detention and on 14 january he was detained while reporting to the immigration authorities. on 25 july 2008 the applicant was alleged to have displayed “inappropriate behaviour” to a female member of immigration staff at a detention centre. his behaviour was also alleged to have been disruptive. however, no prosecution was ever mounted. however, the border and immigration agency refused to agree to any such request. on each occasion the application was dismissed. on 4 december 2009 the high court granted the applicant permission to apply for judicial review and the home office was ordered to release him on bail within forty-eight hours. counsel for the secretary of state for the home department argued – and the court appears to have accepted – that the first period could not be in question legally, since the applicant had been released for one month pursuant to a court order and the order enforcing release had been discharged. in considering the lawfulness of the second period of detention, the administrative court judge recalled that the authorities should be free to make strenuous efforts to obtain the assent of a person they proposed to deport. he observed that during this period there had been no change in approach to the applicant, no prosecution had been brought under section 35 of the 2004 act, and there had been no further approach to the iranian authorities to see if they would change their position. in a decision dated 13 may 2011 the applicant was awarded gbp 6,150 in damages. the applicant sought permission to appeal. on 31 october 2011 permission to appeal was refused.
the applicant was born in 1999 and lives in pleven. lastly, it stated that no member of the applicant’s family was able to take on responsibility for her upbringing. the applicant also asked to have a lawyer appointed. they added that after her admission to the centre, the child had remained in contact with the people who had incited her to engage in prostitution despite the steps that had been taken to protect her. he viewed those measures as insufficient. accordingly, the measure of placement in a correctional boarding school was in fact in her interests. in its reasoning the court held that despite the judicial decision of 1 april 2013 in which a compromise solution had been adopted for the applicant, namely the confirmation and extension of her placement in the children’s crisis centre, she was still failing to abide by the institution’s internal rules, was not returning to the centre by the designated time after school, was in contact with individuals identified as “delinquents” and was still behaving rudely and aggressively towards the social workers at the centre. in the court’s view, the applicant no longer displayed any willingness to abide by the rules of society, or even those of the institution in which she was living, and it was therefore advisable to remove her from her circle of acquaintances who were harming her personal development, and to provide her with enhanced educational support in order to eradicate her negative behavioural traits. the court noted that educational measures had already been imposed on her, but they had not produced a positive result. the applicant, represented by her lawyer, appealed against that judgment. on 15 september 2013 the applicant was taken to the podem school. there had been other suicide attempts at the school. the applicant further submitted that her telephone conversations were monitored by a supervisor. when submitting their observations on the admissibility and merits of the application, the government included a report dated 30 january 2015 by the head of the podem school about the applicant’s situation. each time, the applicant had returned late to the podem school. the remaining 52% of pupils failed to complete their education. the 2013 report mentions a low success rate among pupils, with average marks of between 3 and 4 out of 6. the reports further state that, in accordance with the applicable legislation, each correctional boarding school has a team responsible for educational and psychological assessment of pupils and a team of supervisors responsible for educational and rehabilitative support. with regard to the podem school in particular, the teaching and support staff are subject to external educational supervision. these children often run away, do not attend lessons regularly and have insufficient contact with adults.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in shostka. on 13 november 2003 the applicant’s wife died as a result of a traffic accident caused by mr v. whose car collided with a horse-drawn carriage in which the applicant’s wife was travelling. the police examined the scene of the accident immediately. the medical examination of mr v. was also conducted. on 17 november 2003 the shostka district police department instituted a criminal investigation into the road traffic accident. on 27 december 2003, after a number of forensic medical examinations and on the basis of witnesses’ testimonies, the investigative officer terminated the criminal proceedings on the ground that it was impossible to establish who was responsible for the accident. on 4 february 2004 the investigative officer of the shostka district police department decided to resume the investigation on account of its incompleteness and the necessity to conduct further investigative actions. between february 2004 and april 2005 six more decisions to discontinue the criminal proceedings for lack of corpus delicti in the driver’s actions were taken (on 5 february, 5 march, 15 april, 17 august, 7 october, 23 december 2004). all of them were subsequently quashed and the criminal proceedings have accordingly been reopened by decisions of the police officer of the shostka district police department (on 3 march and 1 april, 11 june, 6 october, 10 november 2004, 1 march 2005) with reference to the incompleteness of the investigation. the latter authority referred, in particular, to the failure of the inquiring officers to question additional witnesses and to reconcile factual discrepancies between the experts’ conclusions and the accounts of some witnesses, the completion of technical examinations, including reconstruction of the events. on 11 july 2004 the applicant was recognised as being a victim and a civil plaintiff in the criminal case and on 5 january 2005 he lodged a civil claim, seeking compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage within the context of the criminal proceedings. on 27 april 2005 the police officer of the shostka district police department instituted criminal proceedings against the car driver mr v. on 1 july 2005 the indictment against mr v. was prepared by the shostka district prosecutor’s office. on 5 july 2005 the criminal case was referred to the shostka local court for consideration on the merits. on 20 march 2007 the prosecutor quashed the resolution regarding the termination of the proceedings in the case, having found that additional investigation was required. on 1 july 2008 this resolution was quashed and the case was remitted for additional investigation. on 12 march 2011 the shostka local court sentenced mr v. to five years’ imprisonment combined with a driving ban for three years and awarded pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage to the applicant and other victims (two more persons were injured in the traffic accident). on 29 august 2011 the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against mr v. 18. on 29 march 2012 the higher specialised civil and criminal court upheld the decision of the appellate court in the criminal case against mr v. 19. on 8 january 2013 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine upheld the decision of the sumy court of appeal of 15 august 2012 allowing the applicant’s civil claim and ordering payment of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages relating to his wife’s death in the amount of uah 10,774.32. it appears that the decision of the court of appeal has not been fully enforced due to lack of funds of mr v. and the impossibility of selling his property.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in garkalne (riga district). as the applicant did not appear, the limassol district court ruled in his absence on 24 may 2004. accordingly, fearing that the applicant might seek to evade enforcement of the judgment, it asked the district court to place a charge on the property in question and record the charge in the land register. street in riga which differed from the address previously notified to the cypriot court. according to the applicant, it was not until 15 june 2006 that he learned, from the bailiff responsible for enforcement of the cypriot judgment, of the existence of that judgment and of the latgale district court order for its enforcement. the respondent government did not dispute these facts. when asked to comment on these documents the applicant’s lawyer contended that they were clearly insufficient to render the judgment enforceable. he then requested that the charge on his property in garkalne be lifted. artico v italy judgment of 13 may 1980, series a no 37, § 33, and eur. in that connection, the first paragraph of article 47 of the charter provides that everyone whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by eu law are violated has the right to an effective remedy before a tribunal in compliance with the conditions laid down in that article. consideration of the texts which constitute the common european asylum system shows that it was conceived in a context making it possible to assume that all the participating states, whether member states or third states, observe fundamental rights, including the rights based on the geneva convention and the 1967 protocol, and on the echr, and that the member states can have confidence in each other in that regard. it follows from all of the foregoing considerations that, as stated by the advocate general in paragraph 131 of her opinion, an application of regulation no 343/2003 on the basis of the conclusive presumption that the asylum seeker’s fundamental rights will be observed in the member state primarily responsible for his application is incompatible with the duty of the member states to interpret and apply regulation no 343/2003 in a manner consistent with fundamental rights. in the case of alpha bank cyprus ltd v dau si senh and others (case c-519/13, judgment of 16 september 2015), concerning the application of regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, the cjeu held:“30. considerable changes have accordingly been made to the brussels convention mechanism. the cjeu adopted the following reasoning:“20. ... in the original proceedings in the state in which the judgment was given, it follows from the combined application of articles 26(2) of regulation no 44/2001 and article 19(1) of regulation no 1348/2000, that the court hearing the case must stay the proceedings so long as it is not shown that the defendant has been able to receive the document which instituted the proceedings or an equivalent document in sufficient time to enable him to arrange for his defence, or that all necessary steps have been taken to this end. next, ... since the court or authority competent to issue that certificate is not necessarily the same as that which gave the judgment whose enforcement is sought, that information can only have prima facie value. as a preliminary point, it should be recalled that article 34 of regulation no 44/2001 must be interpreted strictly inasmuch as it constitutes an obstacle to the attainment of one of the fundamental objectives of that regulation... with regard, more specifically, to the public-policy clause in article 34(1) of the regulation, it may be relied on only in exceptional cases ...... 73. the recast version of the brussels i regulation (known as “brussels i bis”), introduced by regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (recast), entered into force on 10 january 2015. section 230(1)“in the decision [lēmums; not ruling on the merits] the court or judge shall indicate:...(7) the detailed arrangements and time-limits for lodging an appeal against the decision.”
all applicants were former employees of “leteks” u stečaju (the debtor), which was, at the relevant time, a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital. since the debtor failed to fulfil its contractual obligations towards its employees, on an unspecified date, the applicants instituted civil proceedings against it. on 18 april 2008 the leskovac municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of salary arrears, plus the costs and expenses of the civil proceedings. on 3 october 2010 the above judgment became final. between 20 november 2008 and 30 november 2009 all applicants filed separate requests for the enforcement of the above judgment. the leskovac municipal court ultimately accepted the applicants’ requests and issued the enforcement orders, respectively. the essential information as to the enforcement proceedings in respect of each application is outlined in the annex to this judgment. on 25 january 2011 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. the applicants duly submitted their respective claims. on an unspecified date the applicants’ claims based on the judgment of 18 april 2008 were formally recognised. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing. on 31 march 2010, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 8 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of all applicants except the applicants ms jagoda jančić (application no. 62499/10), mr predrag stamenković (application no. 63100/10) and ms stana stanković (application no. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court also found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time, in respect of ms jančić, mr stamenković and ms stanković. it further awarded each of them 500 euros (eur) as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the court in leskovac to expedite the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1968 and, prior to his conviction, lived in yaroslavl. on 15 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud. subsequently, he was charged with fraud, attempted fraud, embezzlement, tax evasion and a breach of duties in his work as a tax agent. on 16 april 2008 the kirovskiy district court of yaroslavl remanded the applicant in custody pending investigation. the judge found that (1) the applicant was suspected of serious crimes, (2) he might abscond, (3) he might put pressure on witnesses, or (4) he might interfere with the investigation. on 25 april 2008 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the detention order of 16 april 2008 on appeal. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the courts extended his detention, using the same stereotyped formula as described above. on 16 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the kirovskiy district court of yaroslavl. on 27 october 2009 he was convicted of the charges and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment. on 29 december 2009 the yaroslavl regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the first-instance court for a fresh examination. on 25 january 2010 the trial court ordered his release on bail. on 27 january 2010 the bail was paid and the applicant was released. on 20 july 2010 the applicant was convicted of fraud and attempted fraud and sentenced to five years and six months’ imprisonment. on 19 october 2010 the yaroslavl regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 2 december 2014 the government submitted a unilateral declaration. they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “between 15 april 2008 and 27 october 2009 ... without relevant and sufficient grounds”, in breach of the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention. they offered to pay him a sum of 1,850 euros (eur) as just satisfaction and invited the court to strike the case out of its list of cases. on 2 february 2015 the applicant replied that he had taken note of the government’s acknowledgment of the violation, but that the amount of compensation was not acceptable to him.
the applicant was born in 1955 and is currently detained in iași prison. by a final decision of 2013 the applicant was convicted of fraud and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. he had been detained in several prisons since 18 october 2011. in respect of the establishments in which he had been detained, the applicant alleged that he had been kept in overcrowded cells with poor conditions of hygiene. the food he had received had been of poor quality and had not been adapted to his medical condition. he also claimed that the cells in which he was detained in iași prison were infested with bugs, and the mattresses were old and dirty. the cells had natural and artificial light and were ventilated through windows. the detention cells were disinfected daily with chlorine. the detainees were provided with cleaning materials and they were responsible for cleaning the cells. at least every trimester the prison authorities or specialised contractors carried out work to eradicate rodents and insects. the detainees were entitled to two showers per week. the applicant received a special diet for his diabetes. the applicant was detained in gherla prison between 18 october and 22 november 2011. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell eg 1.7, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with nine co‑detainees between 18 october and 11 november 2011; (ii) cell eg 3.25, which measured 55.20 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑five co‑detainees between 11 and 16 november 2011; (iii) cell eg 1.15, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with nine co‑detainees between 16 and 18 november 2011; and (iv) cell e 1.8, which measured 43.25 square metres and which he shared with eleven co-detainees between 18 and 22 november 2011. the applicant was detained in bistrița prison between 22 november 2011 and 18 january 2012. 4, which measured 20.03 square metres and which he shared with eight co-detainees. he occupied the following cells: (i) cell no. 4.21, which measured 44.81 square metres and which he shared with twenty‑three co‑detainees from 4 to 16 february 2012; and (ii) cell no. the applicant was detained in focșani prison on several occasions: between 2 and 9 march 2012, 11 and 18 january, 5 and 19 february, and 2 and 5 april 2013. for the rest of the period of detention until the present, the applicant has been detained in iași prison, in cells e 4.4.,
the applicant was born in 1978 and until his arrest lived in sarapul, the republic of udmurtiya. the cell had a window measuring 150 by 150 cm and two lamps, only one of which was functional. in late june 2007 the applicant was placed in cell no. the conditions of detention there were satisfactory. it was designed for ten detainees but only accommodated five. the floor was covered by a mixture of mud and detergent. each detainee was afforded fifteen minutes to take a shower. dishes largely comprised of cabbage, potatoes and barley grit. meat or fish was only served on public holidays. relying on photos of the prison hospital, written statements about the conditions of detention in 2007 made by three inmates in 2013, and on certificates issued by the prison hospital administration on 22 and 24 april 2013, the government argued that the cell windows had allowed sufficient daylight so that inmates had been able to read and write. a ventilation system had been installed in every cell. the heating system had properly functioned. they further produced extracts from his medical history. the applicant did not suffer from tuberculosis prior to his arrest. on the day of his arrest, 18 october 2006, the applicant was seen by a prison paramedic, who performed a general check-up, noting, inter alia, that the applicant’s lungs were clear. the prison doctor studied the x-ray record and recommended the applicant’s transfer to the prison hospital. a sputum smear test performed on admission led to his being diagnosed with infiltrative tuberculosis at the stage of lung tissue destruction, with inactive mycobacterium tuberculosis (“mbt”). according to the applicant, one of the drugs was out of stock. by september 2010 his health had improved and the lung cavities had disappeared. the most recent sputum smear test in february 2013 did not indicate whether the applicant remained mbt‑positive.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in voronezh. воронежа, “the tsentralniy ovd”) for having employed offensive language in public. in particular, they had handcuffed his hands behind his back, lifted the handcuffs so that he could only stand on his toes, attached the handcuffs to metal bars and administered several blows to the applicant’s face and chest. a few hours later, the applicant was released. on 8 march 2008 the applicant paid a visit to voronezh town clinical hospital no. the report reflected the timing of these injuries as “one to three days prior”, “possibly 7 march 2008, as argued by [the applicant]”. it further concluded that the injuries in question did not entail any permanent damage to health or disability. 4, which diagnosed him as having developed periarthritis as a result of trauma of the wrist joints. on 19 march 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the tsentralniy district investigation department of the investigative committee at the voronezh regional prosecutor’s office (следственный отдел по центральному району г. on 23 march 2008 an investigator of the district investigation department rejected the applicant’s request as unfounded for lack evidence of a crime. thereafter the applicant’s request was repeatedly rejected and re‑examined. who submitted that on 7 march 2008 at about 6.10 p.m. he and police officer s.s. who denied having applied physical force to the applicant;-  the statements of police officer p.a., on 19 may and 28 october 2008, and 10 august 2009 the tsentralniy district court, voronezh, discontinued the proceedings by which the applicant sought to challenge the lawfulness of the decisions of 23 march, 1 october and 11 december 2008 respectively, refusing to open a criminal case against the police officers as in the meantime the above decisions had been set aside. after the application was communicated to the russian government, on 23 march 2011 the district investigation department instituted criminal proceedings under article 286 § 3 of the criminal code of the russian federation. on an unspecified date in the end of march 2011 the applicant was questioned as a victim. on an unspecified date in april 2011 the investigator appointed a doctor to carry out a forensic medical examination. on 6 june 2011 the applicant participated in an onsite verification of his statements and in an identity parade of the police officers. of the tsentralniy ovd were presented for identification; however, none were recognised by the applicant. on 25 july 2011 the investigation was suspended on the grounds that it was impossible to identify the alleged perpetrators.
the applicants were born, respectively, in 1971 in togo and in 1979 in ghana. on 22 april 2002 the first applicant acquired danish citizenship. he had met her during one of four visits to ghana made in the five years prior to their marriage. the appeal did not have suspensive effect. in its assessment, it noted that the first applicant had entered denmark in july 1993 and had been a danish national since 22 april 2002. the first applicant] had some ties with ghana, where he had lived with his uncle while attending school in ghana for ten years. it stated as follows:“in its decision of 27 august 2004, the ministry of integration refused the application from [the second applicant] for a residence permit on the grounds that the aggregate ties of herself and her spouse [the first applicant] with denmark were not stronger than their aggregate ties with ghana (see section 9, subsection 7, of the aliens act). 1204 of 27 december 2003, the requirement that the spouses’ or cohabitants’ aggregate ties with denmark must be stronger than their aggregate ties with another country (the attachment requirement) does not apply when the resident has been a danish national for 28 years (the 28-year rule). until 2002, danish nationals had had a general exemption from the attachment requirement. this is so when they speak danish at home, take holidays in denmark, read danish newspapers regularly, and so on. thus, there will normally be a basis for successful integration of danish expatriates’ family members into danish society. a consequence of this current state of the law is that different groups of danish nationals are subject to differences in treatment in relation to their possibility of being reunited with family members in denmark, as persons who have been danish nationals for 28 years are in a better position than persons who have been danish nationals for fewer than 28 years. a different additional requirement is made under danish law: a requirement of danish nationality for 28 years. this also applies to danish nationals who have stayed abroad for a shorter or longer period, for example in connection with education or work. the application was finally refused in 2004. a comparison of the two cases reveals that both [the first applicant] and mrs balkandali only came to denmark and the united kingdom, respectively, as adults. for persons born danish nationals, the rule only implies that the attachment requirement applies until they are 28 years old. when the attachment requirement was introduced by act no. in this respect, the supreme court referred to paragraphs 84 to 86 of the judgment delivered by the european court of human rights on 28 may 1985 in abdulaziz, cabales and balkandali v. the united kingdom. the consequence of this must be that, when applying section 9, subsection 7, of the aliens act to danish nationals, the authorities must limit the 28-year rule to being solely an age requirement, meaning that the attachment requirement does not apply in cases where the resident spouse is a danish national and is at least 28 years old.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in cotiglet, romania. he had also intended to have sexual intercourse with the applicant but finally decided to help her get up, clean and dress herself, and accompanied her back to the house where the funeral wake was being held. the forensic doctor found signs of pathology which could have resulted from sexual intercourse. lastly, the doctor mentioned that the applicant was in a state of anxiety and fear, and he recommended psychological counselling and possibly a neuropsychiatric examination. on 15 february 2007 the applicant was admitted to the oradea psychiatric hospital. on 14 january 2007 the applicant, accompanied by her father, lodged a formal complaint with the police. stated that he had not forced the applicant in any way and he had not been aware that she was under fifteen. after he had had consensual sex with the applicant, he had left her in the company of m.c.s. came around and tried to rape her but failed and it was v.f. he denied having touched or spoken to the applicant. he had just walked behind her and continued on his way past the deserted house. was questioned again on 22 january 2007, when he re‑considered his initial statement and told the police that m.c. be investigated for rape and complicity to rape. had twice had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. had told him that the applicant was waiting for him at the deserted house. when he reached the meeting point, the applicant started kissing him and asked him to go with her to the back of the garden, away from the road. told me he had raped the victim, he also mentioned that he had kissed her.” it rejected her claim for civil damages, considering that the medical conditions described in the forensic reports had no connection with the incident at issue. all parties to the trial, including the applicant represented by her lawyer, appealed against the decision of the beiuş district court. on 27 february 2008 the bihor county court decided to increase the sentences imposed on the two defendants to three years’ imprisonment for m.c.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lived until his arrest in moscow, having worked as a notary. the district court found that other measures of restraint could not be applied because the circumstances which had prompted the applicant’s arrest had not changed. on 27 september 2005 the court extended the applicant’s detention until 9 december 2005, having noted, inter alia, that the applicant had only read three, and his lawyer nine, volumes and that they therefore needed additional time. having finished studying the file, on 22 november 2005 the applicant was committed to stand trial before the moscow city court (“the city court”). during a hearing of 15 february 2006 the applicant’s lawyer asked the city court to release the applicant, arguing that his detention pending trial was not based on sufficient and valid reasons and was therefore in breach of article 5 § 3 of the convention. the applicant appealed against the decision of 15 february 2006. five days later the court returned the statement to the lawyers, noting that the decision of 4 april 2006 was not amenable to appeal. the court agreed that at least one working day per week should be left free for the applicant to recover and prepare for forthcoming hearings. the government stressed that he had not suffered any epileptic fits and had been regularly seen by prison doctors. having interviewed the applicant, the paramedic had noted that he had a second-degree disability. in february 2006 the applicant had attempted to commit suicide by cutting his wrist. once, on 12 april 2006, the applicant had been seen by a prison doctor after he had lost consciousness in a prison van. 77/1 in moscow, where his epilepsy had received medical attention. according to the detainees, the applicant had had frequent epileptic seizures. as a result of another seizure, he had inadvertently poured hot water over himself. the applicant had further alleged that the authorities had not provided him with the required medical attention or drugs necessary to treat his epilepsy or at least to decrease the frequency of seizures, of which they had been fully aware. certain drugs had been sent to him by his family or friends. (c)  requests for medical examination 39. two days later the request was refused as unsubstantiated. on 11 may 2006 the applicant was arrested and on the following day the zamoskvoretskiy district court authorised his detention on remand, which was further extended on a number of occasions.
the applicants were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and live in odessa. on 30 april 2002 the applicants’ daughter was struck by a car driven by p. as she was crossing the street. she died in hospital following the accident. between april 2002 and october 2010 the prosecution authorities delivered at least ten decisions refusing to institute or discontinuing criminal proceedings in respect of p. owing to a lack of corpus delicti in his actions. all those decisions were quashed by the supervising authorities as unsubstantiated and further investigations were ordered. on 9 july 2009 the first applicant lodged a civil claim against p. within the criminal proceedings. on 15 july 2009 he was attributed the status of an aggrieved party in those proceedings. on 26 october 2010 the odessa suvorivskyy district court discontinued the criminal proceedings against p. as time-barred. on 21 december 2010 and 20 november 2012 the odessa regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters (“the higher specialised court”), respectively, upheld that decision. on 20 november 2012 the higher specialised court also issued a separate ruling, by which it brought to the attention of the court of appeal and the odessa regional prosecutor’s office a number of shortcomings in the proceedings. it stated, in particular, that the pre-trial investigation had been perfunctory and lengthy. since 2002, there had been hardly any investigative measures. the numerous refusals by the investigating authorities to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the accident had been unfounded and had eventually been quashed. guidelines as regards remedying shortcomings in the investigation had been ignored. the overall duration of the investigation, over ten years, had been unjustified. in summary, the higher specialised court held that the criminal investigation in question had not complied with domestic legislation or the convention. it therefore instructed the aforementioned authorities to take measures to prevent similar violations in the future.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in zagreb. in may 1991 the socially-owned company sisak ironworks was transformed into a joint-stock company and became sisak ironworks holding (željezara sisak holding). it remained state-owned and state-controlled. another company was sisak ironworks fortis, which was privatised in july 1995. the applicant and his family moved to sisak as displaced persons. the applicant found employment with sisak ironworks fortis. according to the applicant the flat was allocated to him and his family by his employer. according to the government, during the proceedings before the domestic courts the applicant did not produce any document which showed the flat as having been allocated to him. agreed that the applicant and his family, as displaced persons, could temporarily occupy the flat. on 13 july 1992 the sisak ironworks flat company brought a civil action in the sisak municipal court against s.k. seeking the termination of their specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue. the applicant gave oral evidence as a witness in those proceedings. the application was granted on 12 april 1994 and the proceedings were reopened. that judgment was upheld by the sisak county court on 30 june 1997 and thus became final. after the croatian authorities had gained control over petrinja in 1995, the applicant and his family sought reconstruction assistance for their house in petrinja to be repaired, under the reconstruction act (see paragraph 28 below). on 12 december 1996 the office for reconstruction and development of sisak-moslavina county accepted the applicant’s request and granted him and his family the sum of 29,900 croatian kunas (hrk) to repair their house in petrinja. the applicant and his family confirmed to the administrative authorities that they had returned to petrinja on 16 january 1998. on 26 march 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. in particular, in his constitutional complaint he wrote, inter alia:“the complainant’s right to inviolability of ownership guaranteed by article 3 of the croatian constitution was violated by the decisions of the sisak county court and the sisak municipal court because the unconstitutional decision of the sisak county court interferes with the complainant’s ownership ...” 21. the applicant is still living in the flat at issue.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in naujoji akmenė. on those grounds, he was released from military service. that year the applicant attempted to commit suicide; he did not accept that he was ill. he would also submit numerous complaints to various authorities. by a ruling of 29 november 2006 the akmenė district court ordered an expert examination to ascertain (i) whether the applicant was suffering from mental illness, (ii) whether he could understand his actions and (iii) whether he could take part in court proceedings. he was also very mistrusting and had strong feelings of persecution. in a one page form sent to the akmenė district court on 29 january 2007, akmenė district social services ticked a box to say that they “agreed” with the prosecutor’s request for the applicant to be declared incapacitated. they also indicated that they would not take part in the court hearing, which was scheduled for 31 january 2007. at a public hearing on 31 january 2007 the akmenė district court, relying on articles 465-468 of the code of civil procedure, granted the prosecutor’s request for the applicant to be declared incapacitated, on the grounds that he could not understand or control his actions. she also stated that he had recently been living away from his parents, but could not take care of himself, did not pay maintenance fees for his apartment, and would not go out or take his medication. a stamp on the letter indicates that it was received by the akmenė district court on 5 february 2007. having established that the applicant was legally incapacitated, by a ruling of 6 march 2007 the akmenė district court appointed the applicant’s mother as his guardian and the administrator of his property. it was granted the same day, and a lawyer was appointed to represent him. the government submitted to the court an extract from the applicant’s medical records, which indicated that he had been at the šiauliai psychiatric hospital from 9 march until 22 june 2007. the government submitted that the court decision of 13 march 2007 had been handed to the applicant by his treating doctor on 15 march 2007. he also indicated that in march 2007 his mother had been appointed his guardian and the administrator of his property. he also expressed a wish to appeal against them. on 31 december 2008 the legal aid service refused the request as having no prospect of success. his guardian had helped him with daily chores. he had also received regular outpatient treatment at the akmenė district psychiatric health centre.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in klaipėda. ’s cabin, the captain sent a report about the death to his superiors in klaipėda, the limarko shipping company. the following day, 25 october 2007, a brazilian doctor, p.c.j., preservation of the body by chemical means irreparably altered the chemical composition of the blood, and therefore there had been no reason to carry out a further examination of the body. the sli did not have any other proof that the working conditions on the vega had been harmful. ’s medical record of 15 june 2001 that expert had testified that v.b. ’s body was typical of someone who had died of a heart attack. it emphasised that what was at issue was a criminal investigation into charges of a violation of requirements to protect health and safety at work. on 24 march 2009 the prosecutor ordered the klaipėda seaport police to establish the whereabouts of the vega and whether it was possible to inspect the ship; to question everyone who worked on it, including about working conditions, as noted in the applicant’s complaint; to obtain documents from limarko related to safety at work; and to ask the sli whether they had examined the actual working conditions on the ship. the sli noted that the circumstances of v.b. on 22 july 2009 the applicant wrote to the prosecutor, questioning why limarko had not requested that the brazilian authorities perform a test for toxic substances in the body as such an examination could have been performed within four to six weeks. failures of the main engine meant that fires on the ship had been frequent, happening almost daily. on 25 february 2010 the investigators again provided the case file to the applicant. it by then comprised three volumes and 565 pages. ’s death had been caused by dangerous conditions on the vega, it was important to establish whether an autopsy of v.b. had been performed and his blood tested (and, if so, to provide the results of the autopsy and the tests), and whether the brazilian authorities had inspected the vega after the death to examine the working conditions on board. according to him, although the existence of harmful working conditions and leaks of gases in the engine room of the ship had been confirmed, they could not have caused the victim’s heart failure. could have died from his heart condition. for that reason many mechanics had left the ship. ’s heart attack (see paragraph 19 above).
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in nova gorica. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the time-limit for appealing against the judgment expired at midnight on 28 june 2011. on 12 july 2011 the local court rejected the appeal as out of time. on 30 july 2011 the applicant appealed against this decision, arguing that she had lodged her appeal by fax within the prescribed period. in this connection, she submitted a fax confirmation page according to which on 28 june 2011 at 6.54 p.m. her lawyer had sent a six-page document to the local court’s fax number. subsequently, this information was sent to the higher court. the burden of proof that the appeal had been lodged in due time was on the applicant. the higher court acknowledged that the confirmation page submitted by the applicant indeed showed that on 28 june 2011 the applicant had sent a document of six pages by fax. however, the confirmation page made no reference to the type of document sent, its content and to which case it referred. on 5 june 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. she pointed out that section 112 of the civil procedure act allowed the submission of an application by fax and that according to the existing case-law of the supreme court an application was deemed to be submitted in due time if delivered to the competent court before the expiry of the time-limit regardless of how it was subsequently handled by the court, which was a matter of the court’s internal organisation. she further emphasised that a timely delivery should not have any negative consequences for the parties to the proceedings. on 20 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. on 18 october 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint in which she reiterated the arguments raised before the supreme court. on 11 november 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint for lack of significant disadvantage and for not raising an important constitutional question. on 15 november 2013 this decision was served on the applicant. meanwhile, on an unspecified date, the applicant requested that the local court reinstate her case. on 7 february 2012 the local court dismissed the applicant’s request. the applicant lodged an appeal which she subsequently withdrew.
the applicant, mr vladislav andreyevich gankin, was born in 1954 and lives in volzhskiy, the volgograd region. in may 2006 the applicant lodged a civil claim seeking to recover excess service fees paid. on 3 october 2007 the volzhskiy town court of the volgograd region heard the case in the applicant’s presence and rejected his claim. the applicant appealed to the volgograd regional court. the government stated that on 9 november 2007 a judicial summons was sent to the applicant by mail. the applicant, ms olga ivanovna shevchenok, was born in 1958 and lives in tyumen. in january 2007 the applicant brought a defamation action against a third party. on 6 march 2007 the tsentralnyy district court of tyumen dismissed the applicant’s claim. the applicant was present and pleaded her case in person. on 18 march 2007 she lodged a statement of appeal, in which she indicated her post-office box number. the government stated that on 12 april 2007 a judicial summons was sent to the applicant’s post‑office box. the applicant, mr aleksey dmitriyevich belkin, was born in 1952 and lives in neya, the kostroma region. in april 2009 he lodged a civil claim against traffic police, seeking to obtain a copy of a vehicle registration certificate. both parties appealed against the judgment. he claimed he had not received the summons or the telephone call. the applicant, mr mikhail viktorovich kiryushkin, was born in 1975 and lives in yekaterinburg. the applicant brought a civil action against his employer for wrongful dismissal. three postal notices were then sent to the applicant inviting him to pick up the letter from the post office: on 18 and 24 october and 7 november 2011. according to the applicant he received the postal notice only on 11 november 2011. on 1 november 2011 the sverdlovsk regional court rejected the applicant’s appeal claim in his absence and did not examine the issue of whether he had been notified.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in strumica. at the time when the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 11-32 below) were initiated, there were four judges working in the criminal section of the strumica court of first instance (“the trial court”): judges m.a., was an investigating judge in the trial court, judge v.d. worked on cases concerning minor offences, and judge s.d. she was appointed as a judge in february 2005. became president of the criminal section of the trial court. heard evidence from five eyewitnesses, two experts and the victims’ representative. the applicant’s representative was only present when two of the eyewitnesses gave their statements. on 14 march 2007 a mechanical engineer from the bureau drew up an expert report (“the first expert report”), relying partly on the statements given by the witnesses before judge b.b. at a hearing held on 26 september 2007 the trial court (judge c.k. the applicant asked the trial court to examine the experts who had prepared both reports, in order to clarify their findings, which he described as contradictory. at that hearing the trial court commissioned a fresh expert report (вештачењето да се обнови со други вештаци) to be prepared by three experts from the bureau, not those who had drawn up the report of 14 march 2007 (see paragraph 14 above). on 31 january 2008 a fresh expert report was issued by the bureau (“the third expert report”). he argued that the practice in similar cases was that the judges withdrew in order not to cast doubt on the court’s impartiality. it based its findings on the third expert report and the oral evidence. finally, the trial court upheld the compensation claim lodged by judge m.a., in this connection he submitted that there had already been such transfers in cases concerning criminal proceedings against a public prosecutor and a president of a court. there had been grounds for exclusion under section 36(2) of the criminal proceedings act. the applicant further requested that the case be remitted and heard either before a different panel of the trial court or before a different court. he further complained about the refusal to assign the case to another competent court.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1975 respectively and live in the city of komsomolsk. on 27 may 2006 mr s., driving a bus, hit the applicants’ minor son who was later that day brought to hospital with severe injuries. on the same day police examined the scene of the accident, questioned s. and several other witnesses. on 1 june 2006 the applicants’ son died of numerous serious injuries caused by the above traffic accident. on 9 june 2006 the komsomolsk prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against s. this refusal was quashed on 14 june 2006 by the same office and instructions were given as to further investigative actions. in particular, the police were instructed to find and examine the direct witness of the accident who was an employee of the komsomolsk department of state postal service (later it turned out to be b.). the case was transferred to the police for further inquiries. on 6 july 2006 the poltava regional police department instituted criminal proceedings into the traffic accident which led to the child’s death. on 13 july 2006 the applicants were officially recognised as aggrieved parties in the criminal proceedings. between may 2006 and april 2007 the police conducted two technical and two medical forensic expert examinations, on-site traffic accident reconstructions, questioned s., the applicants and several other witnesses. from april 2007 until october 2009 the investigation was terminated on numerous occasions for lack of corpus delicti in the actions of s. subsequently it was resumed by the investigator (in november 2007) or the above decisions were quashed by higher prosecutor’s office, due to various omissions in the investigation and with instructions to carry out further actions with a view to collecting evidence. on several occasions the criminal investigation was suspended because it was not possible to establish a person liable for the traffic accident. during the above period the police investigator examined several witnesses (including b. on 7 september 2009) and conducted one reconstruction. between september 2010 and march 2012 the police conducted three additional technical forensic expert examinations, several on-site traffic accident reconstructions and questioned several witnesses. on several occasions the criminal investigation was suspended because of s.’s illness. on 5 october 2010 s. was for the first time officially recognised as a suspect in the criminal proceedings. on 26 march 2012 the case was referred to the komsomolsk court. on 4 april 2013 the komsomolsk court, having established that s. had committed the crime of negligence, amnestied him and left unexamined the applicants’ civil claim. on 25 june and 31 october 2013 the poltava regional court of appeal and the higher specialised civil and criminal court upheld the judgment of 4 april 2013.
the applicant company, instytut ekonomichnykh reform (a limited liability company), is the editorial body of the evening news newspaper (вечерние вести), registered in ukraine. in the 1990s ms ganna german worked as a newspaper journalist in lviv. fresh parliamentary elections were originally scheduled for 27 may 2007 but were postponed; they eventually took place on 30 september 2007. i used to think that one could easily debate with ganna german. i think any ukrainian journalist would sell himself to yanukovych for that much money – for a thousand bucks. he is a great guy ...”what if i were given more than a thousand bucks a month? one does not have to do anything complicated for this. one just has to say, with beautiful diction and intonation, that yanukovych is a lost sheep that has finally found the right path and constantly thanks god for it ......i could also say those things. or for a monthly salary of eight hundred dollars. this is irony, although somebody may consider it sarcasm. according to [the] ozhegov [dictionary], “demagoguery” is “influencing the feelings and instincts of those with low-level awareness on the basis of the deliberate distortion of facts”. for a long time i suffered from not being able to argue with such demagogues as ganna german, taras chornovil, kinakh, and all the [members of the party of regions] and communists. it is not possible to argue logically with them. an intelligent man can hardly stay emotionally composed listening to them. the thing is that demagoguery requires artistry. she also sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage. rather, the statements in question constituted statements of fact which had not been verified or proved by either of the defendants, and were negative and insulting to the plaintiff. relying in particular on the provisions of the civil code and of the information act and referring to the constitutional provision guaranteeing respect for private life (see paragraphs 20 and 21 below), the court ordered the applicant company to retract this information by publishing the operative part of its judgment and to pay the plaintiff 1,700 ukrainian hryvnias (uah, approximately 300 euros (eur) at the time) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. i believe that all journalists dream of selling themselves for a flat in kyiv, even those who already have one ... i listened to ganna german and i wish i were as lucky as she is. for the applicant company, the plaintiff’s failure to formulate a specific retraction illustrated the rationale behind section 47-1 of the information act, under which value judgments were not subject to retraction.
at the time of lodging his application, he had been placed in a supervised residential facility in springe (germany). the court, having regard to the findings of a psychiatric expert and the results of a re-examination of the applicant’s brain by new technical means, found that he did not suffer and had never suffered from a pathological mental disorder. he had therefore not acted with diminished criminal responsibility. all these offences had been committed between 6 december 1982 and 1 may 1984. the hildesheim regional court found that the applicant had attacked his victims in a violent manner. they had been sleeping in an abandoned building. he had injured the hand, lip, chest and thigh of one and the back and finger of another. however, the consumption of alcohol had not been the cause of his offences. his personality differed from that of the majority of the population in that he lacked empathy and saw himself as a strong and dominating man, without that difference being of a pathological nature. on 7 may 1990, having fully served his term of imprisonment, the applicant was placed in preventive detention for the first time, initially mainly in salinenmoor prison. in view of another prison sentence he had served, by 7 august 2000 he had spent ten years in preventive detention. the applicant served that sentence in 2002. on 25 august 2003 the applicant was transferred to the detoxification department of moringen hospital. on 19 july 2011 the göttingen regional court again ordered the applicant’s continued preventive detention in a psychiatric hospital, under article 67d § 3 of the criminal code (see paragraph 31 below). that risk was particularly high when the applicant – whom the expert had concluded abused alcohol without being addicted, as defined by the icd-10 – was drunk. in view of his conduct, it was already unclear whether he would be permitted to continue residing in his current residential facility in friedland castle. moreover, it had not been found by the experts or the domestic courts that his alleged mental disorder had caused the offences in question, nor that he was or had ever been an alcoholic. the decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 26 july 2012. the applicant continued his work therapy in moringen hospital. he no longer received any specific treatment for his mental condition or the alcohol abuse with which he had been diagnosed.
the applicants were born in 1955 and live in baku. on 6 august 2014 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the first-instance court’s decision was lawful. no further extension decisions were included in the case file. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“taking into consideration the state of health of the accused, arif yunusov, who was diagnosed with grade 3 hypertension and hypertensive crisis, and given medical treatment in the central oil workers’ hospital and baku city clinical hospital no. on the same day the prosecutor lodged a request with the nasimi district court asking it to replace the second applicant’s placement under police supervision with detention pending trial. according to the first applicant, upon her arrival at the detention facility, she was examined by a doctor who confirmed that she had type 2 diabetes and chronic hepatitis c. 36. it further appears from the extracts of the first applicant’s detention facility medical records (məhkumun tibbi kitabçası) submitted by the government that on 31 july 2014 the doctor recommended that the first applicant continue the medical treatment for diabetes prescribed by her previous doctor, the drug galvus. on 19 august 2014 she was examined by an endocrinologist in the detention facility, who recommended that she continue her previous treatment. on 23 september 2014 she was examined by a detention facility doctor. on 12 december 2014 the first applicant’s lawyer lodged a request with the prosecution authorities, complaining of the deterioration of her state of health in detention and asking for a forensic medical examination. the government submitted copies of the results of these medical tests and examinations to the court with their observations. on 12 march 2015 she was examined in the presence of c.w. -  on 3 october 2014 she underwent a prophylactic medical examination and was provided with medication brought in by her friends. -  on 15, 21, 25 and 26 november she refused to be examined. -  on 12 december 2014 she was provided with medication brought in by her friends. in particular, the domestic authorities had failed to provide him with adequate medical care in detention. he further submitted that in the absence of any information concerning the second applicant’s conditions of detention and medical care, it was impossible for him to give an account about either. he was placed alone in the cell at his own request. upon his arrival at the detention facility, the second applicant underwent a medical examination, during which he stated that he had suffered from arterial hypertension since 2006. no medical documents were attached to the information report.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kremenchuk. on 19 june 1998 the applicant’s 17-year-old daughter, m., was found dead in a field in the kharkiv region. her body was naked and had numerous injuries. according to the information submitted by the government, on 20 june 1998 a post mortem was carried out. it established that m. had been strangled and that her body had been dragged to the place where it had been discovered. there was no indication that she had been raped. on 24 june 1998 the applicant was admitted to the proceedings as an aggrieved party. on 28 june 1998 the police inspected the scene of the crime. samples of the coal and the bags were collected as material evidence. on 18 january 1999 a witness stated that on the evening of 18 june 1998 she had twice seen a beige car belonging to a certain b., with two male passengers and a girl resembling m., near the crime scene. the witness also submitted that b. had apparently had the car seat covers changed shortly thereafter. on 14 april 1999 the investigator in the case instructed the police to verify whether b. and his two passengers of 18 june 1998 could have been involved in the murder and to identify the girl who had been seen with them. that belated inspection produced no tangible results. the investigation of m.’s murder has been unsuccessful. between 1998 and 2010 it was suspended at least thirteen times for failure to establish who had committed the murder. at least five of those decisions were quashed as premature and as not based on a comprehensive investigation. in the remaining instances the investigation was resumed without any further details being given in the respective decisions. in particular, on 20 january 2009 the investigator, when instructing the police to undertake certain investigative measures, noted that earlier instructions to that effect, given in 2000, had not been followed up. the applicant submitted numerous complaints to the prosecution authorities about the length and ineffectiveness of the investigation. there is no information in the case file about any developments in the investigation after 2010.
the applicant company specialises in taking soil samples by way of drilling for geological examination, inter alia, for the purpose of assessing suitability for building sites and for the construction of wells. the employers’ associations in the building industry (hauptverband der deutschen bauindustrie and zentralverband des deutschen baugewerbes) and the trade union (ig bauen-agrar-umwelt) concluded the collective agreement on social welfare proceedings in the building trade (tarifvertrag über das sozialkassenverfahren im baugewerbe, “vtv”). as the federal ministry for labour and social affairs declared the vtv generally binding (allgemeinverbindlich) pursuant to section 5 § 1 of the law on collective agreements (tarifvertragsgesetz), it was binding on all employers in the building industry, even if they did not belong to the employers’ association (section 5 § 4 of the law on collective agreements, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 20). as a consequence, all employers in the building industry were obliged to contribute to the social welfare fund an additional sum amounting to 19.8% of the gross wages paid to their employees. the applicant company was not a member of an employers’ association that was party to the relevant collective agreements. it was thus not directly bound by any collective agreements by virtue of such membership. on 10 august 2004 the social welfare fund sent a letter to the applicant company with key information about the supplementary welfare schemes, including with regard to contributions to be paid and possible benefits it might receive. the applicant company did not react to this letter. on 28 april 2005 the applicant company’s lawyer sent a letter to the social welfare fund, objecting to being registered with the fund. the applicant company was further ordered to submit copies of the wage slips issued to its employees between january 2006 and june 2007. 6, listed drilling as an activity within its scope. it argued that it was obliged to contribute to a fund jointly set up by the employers’ association and the trade union, even though it did not belong to either of these associations. the applicant company further complained that it was prevented from founding its own association, due to a lack of funds. on 27 june 2008 the hesse labour court of appeal rejected the applicant company’s appeal and did not grant leave for an appeal on points of law. it observed that the generally binding effect did not entail an obligation to adhere either to one of the employers’ associations or to the social welfare fund. the right to participate in the decision-making process within these associations was reserved to members of the respective association. in so far as this fact exerted a certain pressure to become a member of one of the employers’ associations, this was, however, not sufficient to amount to a violation of the negative aspect of its right to freedom of association. it observed that the major parts of the contributions due would be reimbursed to the applicant if properly declared. the court of appeal finally considered that the obligatory contribution to the social welfare fund took account of the high fluctuation of employees in the building industry and served the public interest of allowing for management of the employee’s claims by the social welfare fund, thus preventing a distortion of competition. on 10 december 2008 the federal labour court rejected the applicant company’s complaint against the refusal to grant leave to appeal.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in bad dürkheim, germany. accordingly, demirbank’s management and control, and the privileges of its shareholders except for dividends, were transferred to the fund. as a result, on 14 december 2001 demirbank’s legal personality was extinguished and it was struck off the commercial register. on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund. in its submissions before the supreme administrative court, the plaintiff claimed that its property rights had been violated. the company further stated that prior to november 2000 demirbank had never encountered major financial problems. on 18 december 2003 the joint administrative chambers of the supreme administrative court decided to quash the decision of 3 june 2003. a further appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the agency were rejected on 14 april 2005 and 15 december 2005 respectively. following the transfer of demirbank to the fund, the applicant applied to the board claiming compensation. on the basis of a previous judgment it had rendered on 3 june 2003 (see paragraph 11 above), the court found that the takeover of the bank by the fund had been in accordance with section 14(3) of the banking act. a rectification request lodged by the agency was rejected on 26 may 2005. the court held that the applicant should have initiated proceedings within sixty days of the date on which demirbank’s equities had been transferred to the fund’s account at the stock exchange, namely 31 january 2001 (see paragraph 7 above). the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance court’s judgment on 12 march 2007. on 15 june 2006 the fund refused the applicant’s request, stating that restitution was legally and practically impossible. subsequently, the applicant initiated another set of proceedings before the ankara administrative court, claiming that the agency should enforce the above-mentioned judgments and that his rights as a shareholder of demirbank should be reinstated. he argued that the bank still owned a certain amount of assets following its sale to hsbc and that restitution was therefore possible to a certain extent. he further claimed that in the event that his rights were not reinstated, he ought to be awarded compensation for the loss of his shares. on 30 november 2007, the ankara administrative court dismissed the case. it found that the applicant could not be considered as “concerned” as he had not been a party to the annulment proceedings (iptal davası) brought by the main shareholders.
the applicants are a married couple, mrs r.b.a.b. the applicants’ objection (verzet) was dismissed on 10 september 2002 by the regional court. on 13 april 2003, the minister for immigration and integration (minister voor vreemdelingenzaken en integratie) notified the first and second applicants of her intention to reject their fresh asylum request, holding that their repeat requests were not based on newly emerged facts or altered circumstances as required by section 4:6 of the general administrative law act (algemene wet bestuursrecht). on 17 june 2005, the minister for immigration and integration notified the first and second applicants separately of her intention to reject their third asylum request. they argued that the minister had failed to present a proper reasoning for her finding that it had not been demonstrated that the first applicant did not belong to the group of highly educated women who would be able to resist the social pressure to circumcise their daughters, especially as the first applicant had stated in her first request for asylum that she had only had a primary school level education. in two separate decisions of 20 june 2005 the minister rejected the first and second applicants’ asylum request on the grounds detailed in her notice of intention. the minister added that it was not for her to examine the first applicant’s level of education through an iq test but rather for the applicants to prove their identities and background in their asylum application. according to chapter a8 vc 2000 “country-specific part, the asylum policy in respect of sudan” under 5.5 vc, genital mutilation is widespread in sudan. the policy guidelines are aimed at protecting girls and women against circumcision, an act which according to the policy is to be seen as a violation of article 3 [of the convention]. ... no further information about these proceedings has been submitted. the interpretation of this legislative provision is left to the judge. in practice, perpetrators of genital mutilation are not prosecuted. an increasing number of urban, educated families are refusing to have their daughters circumcised. fgm comprises all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons. there are different forms of fgm (see “eliminating female genital mutilation: an interagency statement”, 2008, authored by various international organisations including the who, the un high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), the un children’s fund (unicef) and the un development fund for women (unifem)). these include clitoridectomy, excision and infibulation. the “joint evaluation of the unfpa-unicef joint programme on fgm/c: accelerating change 2008–2012” in respect of sudan, published in july 2013, includes the following:“in 1983, when sharia law was introduced, the article prohibiting fgm/c was removed from the penal code. the states of south darfur and red sea passed laws prohibiting fgm/c as a harmful practice affecting the health of children. fgm/c is traditionally practiced in the country. comprehensive figures were not available for the year.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in tbilisi. at 3.50 p.m. on 19 february 2005 the applicant was arrested as a suspect in a criminal case. on 21 february 2005 he was charged with multiple episodes of fraud. on 22 february 2005 the first-instance panel of the supreme court of georgia, rejecting the prosecutor’s request to place the applicant in pre-trial detention, ordered the applicant’s release under police supervision. the applicant was released at 4.00 p.m. on the same day. on 25 february 2005 the appeals chamber of the supreme court of georgia, reversing the lower-instance decision, placed the applicant in pre-trial detention for three months. it justified its decision solely by noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime carrying a possible penalty of more than five years’ imprisonment. this fact in itself, in the supreme court’s view, substantiated the risk of the applicant absconding, given that article 151 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), as in force at the material time, provided that the seriousness of an offence could constitute grounds for the imposition of pre-trial detention. on 25 march 2005 amendments were introduced to article 151 §§ 1 and 4 of the ccp; those amendments, inter alia, provided that, subject to assessment by the national courts, pre-trial detention should in principle only be the last resort in cases where it is demonstrated that a more lenient measure of restraint would not suffice in view of the profile of the accused and the concrete circumstances of the case in question. on 18 may 2005 the investigative panel of the tbilisi district court, having heard the prosecutor’s argument that more time was needed to finalise the investigation, extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for another two months, until 22 july 2005. the court did not address the question of whether the required investigative actions could be conducted without the applicant’s continued detention. the applicant’s reasons for his objection to any prolongation (his good reputation and family situation; the absence of previous convictions; and formal assurances from several public persons, including a member of parliament) were dismissed by the court. the court also refused an offer made by the georgian labour union to post bail for the applicant in the form of bonds with an approximate value of 680,000 georgian laris (gel, approximately 248,300 euros (eur)), reasoning that, under article 168 § 3 of the ccp, persons being charged with serious offences were not subject to release on bail. on 23 may 2005 the appeals chamber of the tbilisi district court upheld the order of 18 may 2005. like the lower-instance court, the appellate court did not address the possibility of imposing a more lenient measure of restraint in order to ensure the aims of the investigation. on 15 june 2005 the applicant requested that his pre-trial detention be replaced by a more lenient measure of restraint. the prosecutor agreed to the applicant’s request. on 9 july 2005 the tbilisi district court released the applicant on bail on payment of a security of gel 5,000 (approximately eur 1,800). when ordering his release, the court took into consideration the applicant’s good references and the fact that he had fully compensated the injured party for the damage caused by his allegedly fraudulent activities. at the time of submission of the present application, while the applicant contended that he was unable to have certain unspecified witnesses examined and to obtain expert opinions pertinent to his case, the criminal proceedings against him were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in komsomolskoye village in the kharkiv region. on 28 january 2000 the applicant was arrested in russia on suspicion of having committed an unrelated crime in that country, for which he was subsequently convicted by a russian court to a term of imprisonment that was due to end on 27 july 2004. he was informed of his right to have access to a lawyer as from the first interrogation. at the same time on the same day the applicant also signed a record confirming that he had been informed about his rights as a suspect, in particular the right to remain silent and to consult a lawyer. he denied any involvement in the alleged offence. on 25 january 2005 the applicant was formally charged with aggravated burglary. on 27 january 2005 he signed another such record using the same wording. on 1 march 2005 the applicant stood trial before the pavlograd court sitting in a single judge formation, assisted by a clerk. according to the trial record, the trial unfolded as follows:(a)  only the applicant and b. were present at the opening of the trial, the prosecutor, p. and the witnesses being absent. none having objected, the judge ruled to proceed. (d)  the judge read out the indictment and asked the applicant whether he understood the charges and how he wished to plead. (e)  the applicant responded that he understood the charges, pleaded guilty and refused to testify. (f)  b. asked the court to question her first and then allow her to leave and proceed with the trial in her absence. he again pleaded guilty and stated that he did not wish to testify. he stated that the evidence of his guilt was “admissible and sufficient,” asked the court not to call the absent witnesses since he was ashamed of his actions, and asked the court to dispense with the examination of evidence, pursuant to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 30 below). according to the applicant, this record of the trial was inaccurate. accordingly, the court of appeal sentenced the applicant to twelve years’ imprisonment to be calculated from 16 january 2005, the date of his arrest in ukraine. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, arguing that he was in fact innocent. when the judge had assured him that he would receive a lenient sentence if he pleaded guilty, he had followed the judge’s instructions. the applicant also alleged that the court of appeal had erred in failing to take into account the time he had served in prison in russia.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in plovdiv. between 1992 and 2000 the applicant was involved in proceedings regarding the restitution of a flat which she and her family had been occupying. those proceedings were the subject of the applicant’s first application before the court, in which the court found a violation of article 1 of protocol no. on 1 february 2002 the persons recognised as owners of the flat at issue (the pre-nationalisation owners) sold it to a mr and mrs p. soon after that, mr and mrs p. brought rei vindicatio proceedings against the applicant, who was still living in the property. their claim was allowed at first instance by the plovdiv district court on 24 october 2002. even though the rei vindicatio proceedings after that remained the subject of appeals, the applicant vacated the property on 10 january 2003. she moved to a house she owned in the village of hrabrino, where she registered her address on 4 february 2003. on 4 may 2005 mr and mrs p. brought another action against the applicant, for unjust enrichment, alleging that she had had no valid legal grounds to live in their flat between 1 february 2002 and 10 january 2003, and seeking compensation. the summons was sent to the mayor of hrabrino for delivery to the applicant. however, in a letter to the district court dated 16 june 2005, the mayor sent the summons back, stating that “no such person has been registered” as living in the village. without making any further attempts to find the applicant, on 26 august 2005 the plovdiv district court, after concluding that the applicant was of “unknown address”, published a notification concerning the unjust enrichment proceedings in the state gazette (article 50 § 1 of the 1952 code of civil procedure, see paragraph 18 below in fine). the district court appointed ex officio a lawyer to represent the applicant, to whom all subsequent papers and notifications were served. on 6 april 2006 the plovdiv district court gave judgment, allowing the claim against the applicant and ordering her to pay 3,573 bulgarian levs (bgn), plus interest, to mr and mrs p. 14. upon an appeal by mr and mrs p., in a judgment of 10 july 2006 which was final, the plovdiv regional court ordered the applicant to pay the claimants an additional bgn 1,006.21. the applicant became aware of the proceedings and the judgments against her on 22 february 2008, when she received a notice from a bailiff to pay the sums due. the applicant points to several additional facts. at that same address, in 2007 and 2008, she received two summonses related to other unspecified proceedings brought against her by mr and mrs p. at that same address, in february 2008, she received the bailiff’s notice mentioned in the previous paragraph. the applicant is a well-known piano teacher at the academy of music, dance and fine arts in plovdiv whose place of work could have been known to the authorities. in the months after february 2008 the applicant paid the sums owed by her in full. the overall amount paid, comprising the damages awarded to mr and mrs p., accrued interest and the relevant fees and expenses, totalled bgn 8,767.07 (equivalent to approximately 4,473 euros (eur)).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in srebrenica, a town in the republika srpska (one of the two constituent entities of bosnia and herzegovina[1]). the applicant declares himself as bosniac[2] (one of the country’s “constituent peoples”). he actively participates in the social and political life of the country. he has held several elected and appointed political positions in the republika srpska. at the time of lodging his application to the court, the applicant was a member of the national assembly of the republika srpska. in 2006, as a candidate of the bh party, the applicant submitted his candidacy for the 2006 elections to the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina. on 1 august 2006 the cec rejected the applicant’s request for the reconsideration of that decision. on 10 august 2006 the court of bosnia and herzegovina rejected the applicant’s further appeal. the relevant part of the majority opinion reads as follows (the translation has been provided by the constitutional court):“...therefore, the provision of article 8 of the election law of bosnia and herzegovina, including article v of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina, should be viewed in the light of the discretionary right of the state to impose certain restrictions when it comes to the exercise of individual rights. it is not constitutionally permissible for a law or the interpretation or implementation of a law to be directly incompatible with the express and unambiguous requirements of article v of the constitution. it would have been otiose, reduced to empty words. i accept that there different parts of the constitution appear to have conflicting values and objectives, but constitutions are never entirely coherent. they are always shaped by, and are a compromise between, conflicting values and objectives. such a tribunal has no duty to uphold the constitution. ...i consider the exclusion of the candidate mr. contrary to the statements of the majority (§ 22), it seems to me that the current situation in bosnia and herzegovina does not justify at this moment the differential treatment of the appellant’s candidacy in relation to the candidacy of other candidates who are the serbs and are directly elected from the territory of the republika srpska, nor it serves a legitimate aim, such as preservation of peace, continuation of dialogue or creation of conditions for amending the provisions of the constitution of bih and election law. 36/00), stressing the equality of all constituent peoples in both entities and excluding in consequence the minority status of any constituent people in any entity. in other terms, the differential treatment challenged by the appeal is not justified in an objective or in a proportionate manner. i also differ from the opinion expressed by judge feldman in his point 4. this implies that the constitutional court grants the same importance to the peace agreement and its annexes and thus that in case of conflict of norms, the case may only be resolved through a method of systematic interpretation.
the applicant was born in 1924 and lives in cologne. in 2006 the applicant initiated proceedings under the criminal rehabilitation act (strafrechtliches rehabilitierungsgesetz) on behalf of his late father. he submitted a vast number of documents, claiming that the historical background of the measures taken under the soviet occupation command had to be evaluated anew. in particular, the 1946 and 1947 provisions on which the measures against his father had been taken could now be qualified as criminal prosecution. new research had shown that their objective was to punish individual germans for alleged wrongdoing. the applicant requested, inter alia, that the 1946 decisions to find his father guilty of being a nazi and the subsequent decisions to expropriate him and confiscate his personal property and the property belonging to his company be declared contrary to the rule of law and hence void. according to the applicant, the value of his restitution claims amounted to about ninety million euros. on 21 july 2008 the applicant’s lawyers published a press release under the following title:“turnaround in the assessment of the communist industrial reform? for the first time the dresden regional court discusses a criminal rehabilitation application at an oral hearing.” in the press release the lawyers explained, in particular, that until that time the domestic courts had seen the objective of the measures in question as motivated by economic policy, that is, having the purpose of modifying the prevailing ownership structure. at the same time they communicated the date, time and place of the hearing. on 8 august 2008 the regional court cancelled the hearing foreseen for 19 august and set a time-limit for written procedure ending on 15 september 2008. the date for a hearing, according to section 11 § 3, second sentence, of the criminal rehabilitation act (see paragraph 13 below) had been set to give the applicant the opportunity to illustrate (erläutern) his legal opinion, which conflicted with that of the regional court and the dresden court of appeal and was supported by particularly extensive factual submissions. this indicated that the hearing was to be used as a public forum. against this background, the court refrained from holding a hearing. on 24 august 2009, following unsuccessful claims by the applicant that the judges were biased, the regional court rejected the applicant’s request. it held that the measures taken against the applicant’s father were not of a penal character. the expropriation measures did not result in further consequences to his detriment. it added that the documents submitted proved neither the penal character of the measures in question nor that there had been an arrest warrant. an oral hearing was not necessary as the documents presented were sufficient for the case to be assessed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in astrakhan. on the same day at 11.37 p.m. criminal proceedings were instituted against him. on 13 august 2004 the applicant was informed that the investigation had been completed and that the case file had been submitted to the district court for trial. the applicant, however, remained in detention. on 7 april 2005 the district court dismissed the application for release and extended the applicant’s detention pending trial for another two months, until 16 june 2005. on 21 july 2005 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal. the court held, inter alia, that the applicant’s detention from 16 august to 25 august 2004 had been lawful and that the decision of 25 august 2004 should stand. on 9 june 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 july 2006. on 16 april 2006 the applicant sought medical assistance. in connection with this application, on 21 april 2006 he was referred to the prison hospital in ik-2 correctional colony for examination and treatment. he was prescribed and provided with the necessary treatment and his condition improved. upon return to iz-30/1 the applicant was put under outpatient supervision and given the recommended treatment. however, he was informed on each occasion that there was no dentist on the medical staff of the remand prison. the only treatment available was extraction and there was a three-week waiting list. the applicant also complained on numerous occasions about hypertension. at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, on 14 december 2005 the doctor at iz-30/1 remand prison issued a medical certificate reading as follows:“during his detention in iz-30/1 [the applicant] repeatedly turned to the medical unit of the [remand prison] for medical assistance. appropriate treatment was prescribed with the medicine available at the remand prison. an ambulance was called for the applicant at the court hearings on several occasions and he was given treatment for high blood pressure. the applicant submitted a medical certificate dated 14 december 2005, which shows that the ambulance was called for him on that date during the court hearing and that he was provided with the necessary medical assistance for a hypertensive crisis. the inspection revealed, inter alia, that there was a problem of deficient health care in the remand prison.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained in the suwałki prison. on 22 april 2003 the applicant was arrested in the netherlands. the court held many hearings and heard witnesses. on 26 january 2006 the prosecutor submitted a request for the case to be transferred to the lublin regional court. the court held at least sixty-five public hearings lasting up to four hours. at the applicant’s request the trial court provided him with translations of documents. in addition, at four hearings in 2005 the applicant requested copies of the relevant documents in polish. on 5 october 2007 the applicant asked the trial court to allocate another legal aid lawyer to him. on 27 january 2010 the lublin regional court (iv ka 338/06) convicted the applicant as charged. in particular he was convicted on six counts of kidnapping for ransom and leading an organised criminal gang. during the trial before the lublin district and regional courts the applicant was represented by mr m.c. the lawyer prepared an appeal on his behalf. in his appeal he raised, inter alia, a breach of the applicant’s defence rights under article 6 of the convention and argued that the applicant had not had access to his lawyer in the presence of an interpreter and full access to the case file in his own language. moreover, throughout the proceedings the first-instance court provided him with copies of the requested documents...” 21. the translation into lithuanian of this judgment had been received by the applicant on 7 july 2012. as regards the arguments put forward in the cassation appeal, the court stated that the applicant had been detained on remand and had therefore had to be accompanied by guards during the meetings with the lawyer which had taken place during recesses in the trial court hearing. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint with the lublin regional prison service inspectorate concerning the constant monitoring of his cell, repeated body searches and the lack of unsupervised visits. all the commission’s decisions and the requests by the remand centre issued between april 2005 and 2012 had similar wording. during his subsequent detention in the lublin and suwałki remand centres the applicant was authorised to make two telephone calls per week, each lasting ten minutes. the parties disagreed as to the number of hearings during which the applicant remained in the cage.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in bucharest. she underwent surgery five days later and was released from hospital on 14 may 2002. the police opened an investigation to clarify the circumstances of the accident. on 5 july 2002 the police officer in charge of the investigation ordered a technical expert report. on 23 august 2002 a forensic medical report was attached to the investigation file. the technical expert report was finalised on 25 august 2004. the driver, who had been turning his vehicle at the time, had not breached any traffic regulations. the applicant took note of the expert opinions on 23 november 2004. on 17 january 2005 she submitted objections, to which she received a reply on 25 january 2005. on 31 january 2005 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest district court decided not to prosecute the driver, since the fault of the accident lay entirely with the applicant. she lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that judgment. on 4 august 2005 her appeal was allowed by the bucharest county court, which decided to send the case back to the prosecutor for a more thorough investigation since numerous facts had not been clarified. on 29 december 2005 the applicant made enquiries with the prosecutor’s office about the status of the investigation.[1] 20. on 26 april 2006 the same eyewitness was interviewed again. according to three reports drafted between 2 october and 29 november 2006 by the police officer in charge of the investigation, the applicant could not be contacted, or had failed to come to the police station to give the name of her counter expert. the decision was upheld by a hierarchically superior prosecutor on 21 february 2007. the applicant’s complaint against the prosecutors’ decisions was allowed by the bucharest district court on 8 may 2007. the court held that the investigative authorities had failed to follow the instructions given in the previous judgment of 4 august 2005. the court held that because the limitation period for criminal responsibility in the case had expired it could not rule on the applicant’s claim for compensation. the judgment became final on 15 october 2008 when an appeal by the applicant was dismissed by the bucharest county court.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in pozuelo de alarcón (madrid). that decision was formally served on 13 june 2005. this law legalised same-sex marriage in spain. in accordance with its first additional provision all legal and regulatory provisions making reference to marriage should be understood thereafter as applicable to all marriages irrespective of the sex of its members (see paragraph 35 below). in a judgment of 14 november 2005 the social tribunal ruled for the applicant. 13/2005, which was already in force and deemed constitutional by the tribunal. the social tribunal was of the view that the solution to the legal issue raised by the applicant’s case depended on whether it could be inferred from law no. 30/1981 of 7 july 1981 amending the provisions of the civil code pertaining to marriage and the procedure to be followed for cases of annulment, judicial separation and divorce, recognised the right to obtain a survivor’s pension for individuals who had been prevented from marrying a person who later died by the legislation in force until then, provided that he or she had cohabited in a relationship similar to marriage with the deceased person and that the deceased had died before law no. the social tribunal acknowledged, however, that whereas law no. 13/2005 and that, accordingly, additional provision no. 30/1981 should be read in the light of the first additional provision of law no. 13/2005 that marriage between same-sex couples was recognised and that this law affected other rights for those persons who would wish to marry thereafter. the court further stated that even though law no. 10 (2) was, as the constitutional court had established, of a provisional or transitory nature and had been envisaged for those specific cases in which one of the partners had died before the entry into force of law no. it had not been intended to govern future situations. the institution of marriage was open to them in their capacity as heterosexuals. on the contrary, same-sex couples were absolutely prevented from marrying before law no. 13/2005 since the institution of marriage was until then restricted to heterosexual couples. 13/2005, because before then they were ineligible for marriage as they were both male. relying on articles 14 (principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination) and 24 § 1 (right to effective judicial protection), the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in warsaw. it also summarized the results of the survey. the station owned by the complainant in the subsequent criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 12‑26 below) was included into the list with the following information: “diesel – good quality, gasoline – bad quality”. raport: które stacje sprzedają fałszywe paliwo. in a reply of 7 september 2006 the publisher replied that their article had been based on the report of the competition and consumer rights office. brought a private prosecution against the applicant with the hrubieszów district court. on 18 june 2009 the warsaw regional court allowed the appeal. it noted that the contested decision had been taken with the court referring to a civil case which had previously been lodged by the garage owner and which had been pending at that time. consequently, it could not have been determined at that point in time whether these statements had been true. 500 euros (eur)), ordered him to pay pln 500 (approx. the court noted concordant testimony from a number of witnesses that the problem of selling adulterated motor fuel had been a serious one and that it had given rise to an ongoing discussion and to measures being taken by the state authorities in order to prevent and penalise it. it accepted that it had been an issue of public interest. adulteration of the petrol by the addition of heating oil had been one of them. at the time of the survey had not been significant and that it could not have damaged car engines. the applicant had not shown that this had indeed been the case. in so far as the applicant relied on article 10 of the convention and referred to the court’s case-law, the court noted that both this provision and the provisions of the constitution guaranteed a right to freedom of expression, but this freedom was not unlimited. it could be restricted for the purposes of, inter alia, the protection of the rights of others. against the applicant, the editor-in-chief of the magazine and its owner. the defendants were obliged, jointly, to pay pln 10,000 (approx. eur 2,500) to the plaintiff and to apologise to the plaintiff.
the case originated in an application (no. 71256/11) against hungary lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by six hungarian nationals, mr lászló haraszthy, mr györgy lászló márton, mr gábor horn, ms nóra siska, mr zoltán pintér and ms  mária  terézia  oszter (“the applicants”), on 11 november 2011. the applicants were represented by mr i. p. horváth, a lawyer practising in budapest. the hungarian government (“the government”) were represented by mr z. tallódi, agent, ministry of justice. on 31 august 2015 the applicants’ complaints under article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention concerning the imposition of 98% tax on their severance payment were communicated to the government. it will be payable within three months from the date of notification of the decision taken by the court. in the event of failure to pay this sum within the said three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on it, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the payment will constitute the final resolution of the case in respect of these five applicants. the sixth applicant, ms mária terézia oszter was born in 1949 and lives in budakeszi. from 1 july 1997 she was employed at the state-owned national asset management ltd. her employment was terminated on 30 may 2011. a certain part of her severance payment was subject to special tax at a 98% rate. accordingly, special tax was levied on her severance payment in the amount of huf 2,195,835 (approximately eur 7,300).
the applicant was born on 30 august 1949 and lives in nicosia. 18115/02) on a plea of guilty, following a plea bargain to twenty-four charges concerning a number of offences. in imposing the sentences the assize court also took into consideration another eight cases pending against the applicant before it as well as the district court of nicosia. he put forward a number of mitigating factors, which included his dire financial situation following suspension from his duties, the fact that he had paid off most of the sum agreed upon with the authorities, the conviction and sentence he had received from the assize court, his significant years of service, and the less severe punishment imposed on his accomplice. on 13 june 2005 the psc decided to dismiss the applicant. the psc also pointed out that the applicant had faced 223 charges in total, which was unprecedented for cyprus and which disclosed the seriousness and the magnitude of the case. in reaching its decision the psc observed that it had taken into account the circumstances and conditions under which the applicant had committed the offences. the applicant, however, did not live up to his responsibilities, exploited his position, and developed his criminal activities with unprecedented effrontery and recklessness. the psc also noted that it had taken into consideration what had been said by the applicant’s counsel in mitigation, in particular, the applicant’s personal and family circumstances, as well as the fact that he had undertaken to compensate for the damage and/or part of the damage suffered by the republic as a consequence of his criminal acts. further, the psc pointed out that he had been the main protagonist and this had been stressed by the assize court when distinguishing the sentence passed on him from that passed on his co-accused. this entailed the loss of a retirement lump sum and a monthly pension. this amounted to 15,600 euros (eur) per year. on 7 may 2007 the supreme court dismissed the recourse, but did not award costs against the applicant in view of the nature of the legal issues raised. drawing guidance from the court’s case-law, and in particular the judgments in the case of azinas v. cyprus (no. the impression given by the offences was such that not only did they entail a well-organised fraud but they also, most importantly, as the psc asserted, dealt a blow to the prestige and trustworthiness of the administration. 81/2007) challenging the first-instance findings (a) that in the present case the retirement benefits could be considered a “possession”; (b) that in the disciplinary dismissal of a public servant there was no enacted framework providing for the exercise of discretion as to whether the retirement benefits would be granted; and (c) that the payment of the pension to the applicant’s wife was the only essential factor which tilted the scales in favour of the republic. it decided, however, in view of the offences committed by the applicant, that such deprivation was justified. it went on to agree with the first-instance court that the deprivation of the applicant’s retirement benefits had been justified in view of the seriousness of the offences, which had dealt a blow to the trustworthiness and credibility of the administration. the comments in question had been made on a hypothetical basis and did not apply to the present case. the pension therefore received by his wife pursuant to section 79(7) of the public service law was then reduced by the complementary sum received by him from the social insurance fund.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in tsentrelnye koryaki in the kamchatka region. on the same day at 3.00 p.m. he gave a confession statement. later on at approximately 6.00 p.m. a record of his arrest was drawn up. on 29 june 2005 the first applicant was charged with theft. on 10 april 2005 ms f. complained of having been raped by three unidentified individuals. he and the government provided differing versions of how he was arrested. according to the second applicant, at around 12 noon he was stopped in the street by police and escorted to the local police station. between 12.25 p.m and 12.33 p.m. he took part in an identification parade, as a result of which he was identified by the victim as one of the individuals who had raped her. a record of his arrest was not drawn up until 11.35 p.m. 17. according to the government, the second applicant was taken to the police station as a witness. during the above procedures, the second applicant waited in different offices of the police station. at 6.25 p.m. on 13 april 2005 the gus-khrustalnyy town court of the vladimir region (hereinafter “the town court”) remanded the second applicant in custody on the basis of article 108 of the russian code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccrp”) (see paragraph 34 below). on 15 april 2005 the second applicant appealed. among other things, he complained that his detention was unlawful, on the grounds that he had been brought before a judge more than forty-eight hours after his actual arrest and the town court had not established any “exceptional circumstances”, as required by the ccrp in order to place a suspect in detention (see paragraph 33 below). it considered that the second applicant had been apprehended as indicated in the arrest record. it further found that the town court had based its decision on sufficient grounds. otherwise, he should be immediately released.” in the meantime, on 19 april 2005 the second applicant was charged with aggravated rape. on 20 december 2005 the town court found him guilty as charged and gave him a custodial sentence. the detainees did not have access to fresh air, sunlight or drinking water.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in the village of patiltė (utena region). on 20 november 2006 the applicant began serving a prison sentence at the marijampolė correctional facility. the prison regulations were explained to him, which included a prohibition on prisoners growing beards (see paragraph 17 below). the applicant signed to confirm that he had read and understood the rules. on 4 october 2007 the applicant submitted a request to the prison department to allow him to grow a beard for health reasons. he stated that he had been diagnosed with tongue cancer and had undergone radiation treatment, and therefore shaving irritated his skin. on 17 october 2007 the applicant was examined by the correctional facility’s medical personnel. the subsequent medical report stated that no traces of irritation had been found on the applicant’s skin and that, according to the applicant himself, the main reason why he wanted to grow a beard was that his electric razor was almost broken and he could not afford to buy a new one. on 23 october 2007 the prison department denied the applicant’s request, based on the results of the examination. on 5 december 2007 the applicant submitted a complaint to the vilnius regional administrative court. he argued that there was no law prohibiting beards in prison, so the marijampolė correctional facility did not have the right to establish such a prohibition in its internal regulations. he also contended that the prohibition, which had been applied to him regardless of his health problems, had caused him great mental suffering and had breached his rights. on 21 april 2008 the vilnius regional administrative court upheld the applicant’s complaint. the court acknowledged that prisons were in principle justified in having rules on prisoners’ beards in so far as it was necessary for hygiene-related reasons. however, it dismissed the prison department’s argument that the prohibition on beards was necessary for the purpose of the swift identification of prisoners, and held that such a restriction was contrary to the requirement to reintegrate prisoners into society. accordingly, the court concluded that the prohibition on the applicant having a beard was against the law and was neither necessary nor proportionate. however, on 24 march 2009 the supreme administrative court overturned the first-instance judgment. the court also noted that although prisoners’ human rights and fundamental freedoms could only be restricted by laws and not by legal acts of a lower order, the desire to grow a beard could not be considered as such a right or freedom. therefore, unless it was related to other rights, such as, for example, religious freedom, the growing of a beard could be restricted by internal prison rules. on 15 december 2009 the applicant was released from the marijampolė correctional facility on probation.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kyiv. on 30 june 2004 the darnytskyy district court of kyiv found that the applicant had committed the following crimes: appropriation of private property by means of fraud or abuse of trust, theft of property and theft of official documents. the court sentenced her to five years’ imprisonment suspended for three years with probation. on 23 december 2004 the applicant’s conviction was upheld by the kyiv court of appeal. she appealed on points of law to the supreme court. on 31 may 2005 a three-judge panel of the supreme court considered the applicant’s appeal on points of law in accordance with article 394 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (by virtue of which it could either dismiss the appeal or assign the case for further consideration with the participation of all the parties). the supreme court did not notify the applicant or her lawyer of that hearing. the prosecutor was present and made oral representations during the hearing. having regard to his opinion and the material in the case file, the panel dismissed the appeal as unsubstantiated. in a letter dated 12 september 2005 the supreme court notified the applicant, enclosing a copy of its decision. she received the letter on 16 september 2005.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in baku. demonstrations were planned to be held on 2 april 2011 and 20 october 2012 in baku. prior to the assemblies, on 18 march 2011 and 15 october 2012 respectively the organisers, members of the opposition, gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse those who had gathered. according to him, at the second demonstration he was arrested by people in plain clothes. in the first case the applicant refused to sign the administrative offence report. according to the applicant, he has never been served with copies of the administrative offence reports or with other documents from his case files. in both cases he was not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while he was in police custody. according to him, the hearing before the court in both cases was very brief. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. at the hearing in the first case the applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to documents submitted by the government, he refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend himself in person. at the hearing in the second case a state-funded lawyer was invited to assist the applicant. according to the transcript of the court hearing in the second case, in his oral submissions the state-funded lawyer briefly asked the court to impose on the applicant a light punishment in view of his young age. the only witness questioned during the court hearing in the first case was a police officer who, according to official records, had arrested the applicant. he testified that the applicant had staged an unauthorised demonstration. at the hearing in the second case the court did not question any witnesses. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. on 11 april 2011 and 29 october 2012 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1932 and 1926, respectively, and live in bat-yam, israel. in 1990s the applicants emigrated from the ussr to israel and obtained israeli nationality. before emigrating, they were receiving old-age pensions from the soviet authorities. once the applicants left the ussr, the payments were discontinued in accordance with the ussr pension law in force at the material time. on 4 august 2006 the applicants brought civil proceedings against the competent regional department of the pension fund of the russian federation (пенсионный фонд российской федерации) (hereinafter “the pension fund”) seeking reinstatement of their right to the pension payments. on 4 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court of astrakhan found in the applicants’ favour and ordered the pension fund to set up monthly pension payments backdated to 15 june 1998. on 12 january 2007 the astrakhan regional court upheld the judgment on appeal and it became binding and enforceable. on 10 july 2007 the pension fund lodged an application for supervisory review, seeking to have the judgments quashed. the application was addressed to the president of the supreme court. on 27 july 2007 a judge of the supreme court requested the case file from the district court and subsequently suspended enforcement of the judgment of 4 december 2006. on 4 december 2007 another judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review to the astrakhan regional court. on 22 january 2008 the astrakhan regional court dismissed the supervisory review application and endorsed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007. on 8 april 2008 the pension fund lodged another application for supervisory review, again addressed to the president of the supreme court. on 24 june 2008 a judge of the supreme court sent the case for supervisory review by the civil chamber of the supreme court. on 1 august 2008 the civil chamber of supreme court quashed the judgment of 4 december 2006, as upheld on 12 january 2007, and rejected the applicants’ claims.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in petrozavodsk, in the republic of kareliya. she was a municipal unitary enterprise employee in petrozavodsk, working for auto transport column 1126 (“avtokolonna 1126”, hereafter “the company”). avtokolonna 1126 was set up in accordance with a decision of the administration of the town of petrozavodsk (“the town administration”), and provided public transport services in the town on a commercial basis. 39483/05 and 40527/10, §§ 55-75, 9 october 2014 for further details on the company’s status). in accordance with several agreements between the company and the town administration, the company undertook to provide certain sections of the population with transport services free of charge, and the town administration was to reimburse it for the expenses incurred out of the budget allocated for that purpose by the ministry of finance of the republic of kareliya or the federal budget. consequently, it was unable to pay its employees on time. in 2004 the town administration asked the legislative body of the republic of kareliya to consider allocating additional funds to cover the company’s debt, but to no avail. the debt which had accumulated in respect of the unpaid salaries was not transferred, and remained with the applicant’s employer. on 18 may 2004 the petrozavodsk town court awarded the applicant 21,830 russian roubles (rub) in respect of salary arrears, default interest and non-pecuniary damage. the judgment became final ten days later. according to a payment note on a writ of execution of 20 july 2006, at some point the company paid the applicant rub 9,206. the remainder of the judgment debt has remained unpaid. on 10 april 2006 a justice of the peace of the 11th court circuit of petrozavodsk ordered the company to pay the applicant rub 614 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. the award became final ten days later, but was not paid to the applicant. on 4 october 2006 the commercial court of the republic of kareliya ordered the company’s liquidation. creditors’ claims which had not been satisfied during the liquidation proceedings, including the applicant’s remaining claims, were considered settled. on 15 october 2006 the liquidation was recorded in the register of legal entities, and the company ceased to exist. on 16 march 2005, in subsidiary liability proceedings, the petrozavodsk town court refused to hold the town administration liable for the company’s debts. the court found that the applicant had failed to adduce evidence to demonstrate that it had caused the company’s insolvency. it appears that the judgment was not appealed against.
the first applicant was born in 1941 and lives in amman (jordan). the applicants alleged that since that date their assets in switzerland had remained frozen. that ordinance was initially valid until 30 june 2010 and was then extended until 30 june 2013. on 22 may 2006 the federal department for economic affairs sent the applicants a draft decision on the confiscation and transfer of the funds that were deposited in their names in geneva. it indicated that an administrative-law appeal could be lodged with the federal court against its decisions. the applicants took the view that the federal court, and before that the federal department for economic affairs, had jurisdiction to review the legality and the conformity with the convention and the iccpr of the 1518 sanctions committee’s decision to add their names to the list provided for in paragraph 23 (b) of resolution 1483 (2003). they further sought the opportunity to present oral argument on that point. a copy of these observations was sent to the federal department for economic affairs for information purposes. on 18 january 2008 the applicants wrote to the federal court drawing its attention to the opinion delivered on 16 january 2008 by the advocate general in the case of yassin abdullah kadi, then pending before the court of justice of the european communities (“the cjec”, which on 1 december 2009 became known as the court of justice of the european union, “the cjeu”), and reiterating their request of 10 december 2007 to present oral argument. the committee will reach decisions by consensus. where the committee agrees, decisions may be taken by a written procedure. 15 on article 53 vclt and the references cited). moreover, neither the european convention on human rights nor the international covenant on civil and political rights contains clauses which would, in themselves or by virtue of another treaty, prevail over the conflict clause that is enshrined in both article 103 of the charter and article 30 § 1 vclt. however, according to legal opinion, this provision simply means that the international covenant on civil and political rights cannot hinder the task of the political organs and specialised agencies which have been entrusted under the charter with duties relating to human rights (see manfred nowak, u.n. covenant on civil and political rights, ccpr commentary, kehl 2005, no. moreover, article 64 vclt provides that, if a new peremptory norm of general international law emerges, any existing treaty which is in conflict with that norm becomes void and terminates. and joe verhoeven, droit international public, larcier 2000, pp. and the numerous references cited therein). the latter opinion seems to correspond to that of the (former) commission on human rights [recte: human rights committee], which found that the list of non-derogable rights in article 4, paragraph 2, iccpr might admittedly be related to, but not identical with, the question whether certain human rights corresponded to peremptory norms of general international law (general comments 29/72 of 24 july 2001 under article 40, paragraph 4, iccpr, ch. as to the rights guaranteed by articles 29 et seq.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in podgorica, but is currently detained at the institute for execution of criminal sanctions (zavod za izvršenje krivičnih sankcija; “iecs” hereinafter) in spuž. on 19 february 2011 the applicant was detained on suspicion that he had committed a murder. on 21 february 2011 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica issued a detention order against the applicant. it is clear from the case file that the applicant’s detention was extended on 16 march 2011, 17 may 2011 and 18 july 2011. the decisions of 17 may and 18 july 2011 are in the case file. the decision of 18 july 2011 specified nothing in this regard. on 16 may 2011 the applicant was indicted for murder. [the applicant] was detained pursuant to decision kri.br. 151/11 issued by the investigating judge of this court on 21 february 2011, which detention was extended by decisions of this court’s panel, kv. the same day the applicant was served with the stamped and signed decision of 22 september 2011. it further considered that the applicant had been served with a decision bearing no signature or stamp by an obvious mistake, which did not make the decision unlawful or cause a violation of his human rights guaranteed by the constitution and the convention. by 4 november 2011 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal, submitting a number of complaints, one of them being that s.v. should have been excluded from the bench given that she was related to the representative of the injured party. in view of this, the court did not consider it necessary to examine the other complaints. this decision was not submitted to the case-file. from the subsequent decision of the constitutional court (see paragraph 18 below), however, it transpires that the court of appeals held, in particular, that: (a) the applicant’s detention had not ended on 17 september 2011, as the previous detention order had not specified how long the detention would last and the statutory time-limit of two months was not mandatory (see paragraphs 33 and 34 below); and (b) the absence of the stamp and signature on the detention order did not make it unlawful. he relied, inter alia, on articles 5 and 6 of the convention. it considered in particular that the relevant legislation limited the duration of the detention to three years after the indictment, and that there was no other limitation in that regard. there was no obligation on the courts to specify how long the detention would last, given their obligation to control the duration of the detention every two months. on 22 march 2013, as submitted by the government, the high court issued a first-instance decision on the charges against the applicant.
he is currently detained in kostroma region. on 21 september 2005 he was arrested by the ukrainian border police for an unlawful attempt to cross the border. the investigator assigned a legal-aid lawyer and questioned the applicant in his presence. the applicant again confessed to the arson attack. lastly, he asked that his presence at the trial be ensured, as he doubted the efficiency of the legal aid. he noted that he had never met with his legal guardian. on 13 april 2006 the court held the preliminary hearing. the court was to decide on the applicant’s continued detention and the need for his personal presence at trial. while the applicant insisted on his transfer from the ordinary detention facility to a psychiatric hospital, his legal guardian and legal-aid lawyer agreed to the extension of his detention. as regards the necessity of his presence, the applicant’s counsel argued that it was desirable, but not necessary. the applicant submitted that on 5 october 2005 he had still been in detention in ukraine and therefore he could not have blown up a car in russia on the same day. two days later the oktyabrskiy district court returned the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of 3 may 2006, informing him that his lawyer or legal guardian were the only ones with the authority to appeal. on 27 september 2012 the request was granted. on 27 february 2006 a higher-ranking prosecutor overturned the decision of 20 january 2006 with an order to verify whether the applicant had had any injuries on his admission to the detention facility. on 10 march 2006 the prosecutor’s office again refused to open a criminal case, mainly referring to the applicant’s mental disorder. the applicant was then discharged for outpatient treatment. a chest x-ray examination performed several days after his admission to the temporary detention facility disclosed that the applicant had been infected with focal tuberculosis at the infiltration stage. a scheduled break in his treatment followed. in oryol psychiatric hospital his treatment continued. in 2013 he was transferred to a psychiatric hospital in kostroma region.
the applicant was born in 1955 in the village of z., the omsk region. two days later, the kuybishevskiy district court of omsk authorised his detention pending investigation. the applicant’s continued detention was therefore warranted. on 29 december 2006 the regional court, without addressing the defence’s arguments, found the detention order to be lawful and well‑founded. another extension followed on 29 october 2007 when the regional court ordered that the applicant had to remain in custody until 1 december 2007 because one of his alleged accomplices had not yet finished studying the case file. the court noted that there were no grounds for concern about the applicant’s access to medical aid since the authorities had made assurances about his transfer to an adequate medical facility if needed. against that background the gravity of the charges no longer sufficed to justify continued detention. a consultation by a proctologist was recommended. a doctor called by inmates only gave painkillers to him. the applicant could only walk by taking small steps as walking caused a great deal of pain. the authorities did not give him any hygiene products. at the end of january 2007 the applicant was seen by a prison surgeon. on 2 february 2007, again at the initiative of the applicant’s lawyer, a senior doctor from the state regional civilian hospital, dr z., visited him and recorded a further deterioration of his health in the form of an inflammation of the prolapsed part of his bowels. on 2 april 2007 dr z. visited the applicant and confirmed the diagnosis. he insisted on an in-depth medical examination and surgery, noting that surgery could only be performed after bringing the applicant’s heart-related problems under control. on the following day the applicant was taken back to the regional hospital as an urgent case as his condition had become worse. the applicant was stained with faeces, being unable to control his defecation function. an order to that effect was issued and the applicant signed it. the government’s submissions may be summarised as follows: period of detentioncellno. however, acute pain while walking had sometimes prevented him from using the shower even on those occasions.
the applicant was born in 1981 and is currently detained in giurgiu prison. on 30 december 2010 the applicant was detained pending trial, on suspicion of drug-trafficking offences. subsequently, he was sentenced to thirteen years’ imprisonment. the applicant was detained in rahova prison from: 17 july 2012 to 23 july 2013; 25 july to 17 october 2013; 31 october 2013 to 12 may 2014; and 14 may to 28 july 2014. on 28 july 2014 the applicant was transferred to giurgiu prison, where he remains to date. he had had to share a cell measuring twenty-four square metres with nine other detainees. according to him, this problem had lasted until 30 april 2013. also, during the summer, running water had only been available six hours a day and not at all during the night, even if the detainees had needed to use the toilet. each cell had a window measuring 1.44 square metres. the cells had bathrooms with two sinks and a shower. detainees had permanent access to sanitary facilities. heating was available intermittently, depending on the outdoor temperature. during the cold season, the temperature in the cells would be 19˚c. upon their incarceration, and thereafter on a monthly basis, inmates were issued with personal hygiene products and disinfectants. they were also allowed to buy these products from the prison shop if necessary. detainees were allowed to wash their underwear and bedlinen in the prison laundry room weekly. moreover, when his visitors had brought him food from home, the prison authorities had only allowed him to receive canned food, fruits and vegetables. the national prisons agency informed the government that, during his detention in rahova prison, the applicant had been provided with a diet appropriate for muslims, and any pork had been replaced with beef. during his detention the applicant had been visited on several occasions, but had only received one parcel. he had never asked to receive religious objects, even though he had a lawful right to ask for them.
on 13 february 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of using drugs and providing drugs to third persons. on 16 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the istanbul assize court and she was released on the same day. on 19 february 2009 the public prosecutor lodged an objection to this decision and on 23 february 2009 the istanbul assize court issued an arrest warrant against the applicant. on 24 february 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand. on 4 april 2009 the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with using drugs and providing drugs to third persons under articles 188 § 3, 188 § 4 and 191 § 1 of the criminal code. on 15 may 2009 and 24 june 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court on the basis of the case file dismissed release requests lodged by the applicant. on 9 june 2009 and 21 july 2009 respectively the istanbul assize court further dismissed the objections lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decisions, without holding oral hearings. on 1 october 2009 the istanbul assize court held its first hearing and the applicant appeared before the court. on the same day the trial court released the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in góis. on 28 february 2010 the lousã public prosecutor’s office discontinued the proceedings on the grounds that, following investigations by the criminal investigation police (policía judiciária), it had found no evidence of the criminal offence denounced by the applicant. on 21 june 2010 the inquiry was discontinued. he then became aware of the email of 7 november 2009 and its content. on 30 july 2010 the disciplinary proceedings against commander m.c. were discontinued on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence to take disciplinary action. ’s honesty, honour and professional reputation, which the applicant had intentionally attacked. lodged a claim for damages against the applicant in the amount of 5,000 euros (eur). in a judgment of 17 january 2012 the lousã criminal court convicted the applicant of aggravated defamation and sentenced him to eighty day-fines, totalling eur 720 euros. ...the disclosure of irregular situations has to be seen as a duty (as the performance of an obligation) when it falls within the competence and responsibilities of the whistle-blower and when it does not go beyond the facts which were effectively observed. [ whistle-blowing] cannot be used as a basis to cast suspicion which cannot be supported by any factual element. indeed, by submitting that the offended party and his family were using the existing credit to have dinner at the mentioned restaurant, the defendant knew that he was accusing the offended party of a dishonorable deed, all the more because he knew that the offended party was in charge of the national republican guard’s arganil territorial post. on an unknown date the applicant appealed against the judgment to the coimbra court of appeal. it considered that there were no reasons to change the facts established by the first-instance court and, as such, no reasons to reach a different conclusion with regard to the applicant’s guilt and conviction. on 3 august 2011 the general command of the national republican guard instituted disciplinary proceedings against the applicant. the relevant passage of the report reads as follows:“... the defendant breached the duty of loyalty... as being on duty and being part of the góis territorial post in the quality of deputy commander of the post, he did not inform his hierarchical superiors, in clear disregard of the functional hierarchy principles, of the acts allegedly committed ...” 21. in the report it was also taken into account that the applicant’s allegations had been investigated by different authorities, all of which had discontinued their investigations. had imposed on the applicant before the latter had sent the impugned email. however, the official responsible for the report considered that fact to be innocuous and irrelevant. according to the material submitted in the case file, it seems that the applicant did not lodge an appeal against the disciplinary sanction with the minister of home affairs.
the applicants were born in 1947, 1976, 1973, 1983 and 1987 respectively. at the time of the application they were being held in detention in buca f‑type prison in i̇zmir. on 23 july 2007 the i̇zmir assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file, under article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no. on 24 july 2007 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a criminal organisation. on 27 july 2007 the applicants were questioned by the investigating judge, in the presence of their lawyer. according to their statements to the judge, the applicants denied being involved with the criminal organisation. they did not deny that they had had telephone conversations that had been intercepted, or that they had accepted the transfer of parcels and had possessed firearms, all of which were deemed to be evidence of making threats, of fraud and of smuggling, the offences that they were suspected of having committed. on 1 august 2007 the applicants’ representative objected to the order for the pre‑trial detention in respect of the first four applicants. the representative also applied for their release pending trial on 3 february 2008, 11 february 2008 and 13 february 2008 respectively. those applications were dismissed by the i̇zmir assize court on 4 february 2008, 11 february 2008 and 14 february 2008 respectively based the nature of the criminal charges and the state of the evidence. on 13 march 2008 the public prosecutor at the i̇zmir assize court filed an indictment, charging the first applicant with establishing a criminal organisation and the other applicants with being members of a criminal organisation. the applicants were further charged with committing fraud, making threats, and carrying out raids and smuggling, under article 220 and other related articles of the criminal code. on 17 march 2008 the trial court held an interlocutory session and, in the absence of the applicants, decided to extend their pre-trial detention. the first hearing was scheduled for 24 june 2008. on 2 may 2008 the applicants’ representative objected to that decision in respect of the first four applicants and applied for them to be released. on 7 may 2008 the i̇zmir assize court dismissed the objection. on 9 may 2008 the appeal court dismissed the appeal without holding an oral hearing. on 24 june 2008 i̇zmir assize court held the first hearing as planned and the applicants appeared before the court. the trial court decided to release the applicants from pre-trial detention on the same day.
the applicant was born in 1964 in egypt and currently lives in hamrun, malta. having overstayed this visa, he remained in malta illegally. three months later, on 13 october 1993, they married in a civil ceremony. on 18 november 1993 the applicant enquired about his “exempt person status” (see paragraph 34 below) and on 23 november 1993 started the process to obtain maltese citizenship on the basis of his marriage to a maltese national. the applicant’s exempt person status was confirmed on 2 march 1994. on 12 september 1994, he therefore lodged an application to renounce his egyptian nationality (a copy of the relevant application form has not been submitted to the court). at the relevant time, dual nationality was not possible under either egyptian or maltese law. according to the government, in 1994 the applicant and mp had various marital problems, which led the applicant to leave the matrimonial home on two occasions. the applicant had behaved aggressively, and specifically on 5 june 1994 he had physically assaulted his pregnant wife, causing her a permanent disability. the various family disputes continued between the couple. on 8 february 1995 mp instituted court proceedings to annul the marriage. the court delivering the judgment was satisfied (to the degree necessary in civil proceedings, namely on a balance of probabilities) that the applicant’s only reason for marrying had been to remain in malta and acquire citizenship; thus he was positively excluding marriage itself, and there had been a simulation of marriage. since no appeal was lodged against the judgment, it became final. two sons were born of this marriage, vr and vl, in 2004 and 2005 respectively. he was allowed to make oral and written submissions and submit evidence, including witness testimony. he was required to return his certificate of registration as a maltese citizen and his passport. he claimed that he had not had a fair trial and appropriate access to court for the determination on his right to citizenship. following the lodging of the application with the court, on 16 november 2012 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the relevant authorities informing them that the case was pending before the court and that therefore no action should be taken on the basis of the order of 31 july 2007. no feedback, apart from an acknowledgment of receipt, was received concerning that letter. he has a trading licence, which is periodically renewed.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in iași. on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicant brought proceedings against a third party, seeking the annulment of two sale/purchase agreements concerning an apartment. by a judgment of 25 january 2007 the iaşi district court, acting as a court of first instance, allowed the applicant’s action on the merits and declared the two contracts null and void. the third party appealed against the judgment. by a decision of 21 november 2007 the iaşi county court, sitting as a bench of two judges, allowed the third party’s appeal on the merits, quashed the judgment of 25 january 2007 and dismissed the applicant’s action. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that decision. by a final decision of 2 june 2008 the iaşi court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as inadmissible, without commenting on the merits of the case. it held that, under article 2811 of the romanian code of civil procedure, judgments delivered by first-instance courts in respect of disputes where the subject matter of the litigation had been valued at less than one billion romanian lei (ron) (approximately eur 27,000) were not subject to an ordinary appeal. the applicant had estimated the value of the disputed property to be ron 9,000. therefore, the judgment delivered by the district court could only be challenged by way of an appeal on points of law. moreover, the decision of the iaşi county court was final, even if the county court had erred and examined the applicant’s case in a composition of two rather than three judges.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1971 respectively and live in zubutli-miatli, kizilyurt district, dagestan, russia. they are the wife and the sister of mr kamil mutayev who was born in 1976. the applicants submitted to the court the witness statements of ms ya.r. it does not appear that either of the witnesses provided a statement to the investigation. in reply to the court’s first request for a copy of the contents of the investigation file, the government provided documents from the file, amounting to 43 pages, which showed the steps taken by the investigators from 14 may to 27 june 2012. from the documents submitted, the investigation can be summarised as follows. on 2 may 2012 the police examined the crime scene. in addition, the witness stated that the abductors had scared him by threatening to shoot him if he disobeyed their orders not to move. the applicants were informed thereof on 24 may 2012. on 21 may 2012 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case and questioned again. on 23 may 2012 the dagestan forensic expert examinations bureau informed the investigators that they did not have matches in their database for the fingerprints found on mr kamil mutayev’s car. those persons had visited their house and had thrown hand-written threats inside. on 6, 7 and 12 august 2012 the investigators questioned police officers from the ovd: mr m.m., no information pertatining to his whereabouts or the perpetrators’ identities was obtained. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed thereof. on 9 november 2012 the investigation was resumed in order to take further steps. between march 2013 and february 2014 the investigators questioned a number of mr kamil mutayev’s relatives and neighbours, whose statements did not provide new information. they also questioned again his son muradis and the first applicant who reiterated their earlier statements. from the documents submitted it follows that between november 2012 and august 2015 the investigation was suspended and resumed on several occasions. the last resumption of the investigation took place on 10 september 2015.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1965 respectively and live in moscow. on 24 november 2000 the applicants were arrested. on 27 november 2000 the prosecutor authorised their pre-trial detention. they remained in custody during the investigation and study of the case file. on 12 january 2004 the city court set a trial date of 19 january 2004. the court ordered that the applicants remain in custody pending trial. the applicant’s detention was subsequently extended on several occasions. on 3 february 2005 the jury delivered a verdict of not guilty in the applicants’ case. on 4 february 2005 the city court pronounced the judgment and ordered the applicants’ release. on 22 july 2005 the supreme court quashed the judgment of 4 february 2005 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 29 july 2005 the city court ordered the applicants to be remanded in custody pending a new trial. the court reasoned as follows:“it can be seen in [the judgment of the supreme court] that the verdict was quashed in view of breaches of the rules of criminal procedure by both defendants, which influenced the opinion of the jury. therefore, the court considers that, if released, [the applicants] might interfere with the establishment of the truth and the administration of justice by putting pressure on witnesses. on 20 september 2005 the supreme court upheld the decision of 29 july 2005 on appeal. they could also bring a civil action seeking compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage resulting from the criminal prosecution against them. according to the official version of events, on 22 august 2002 the first applicant destroyed certain documents which had been admitted as evidence in the criminal case against him, and on 28 august 2002 he assaulted a trainee investigator. on an unspecified date a criminal case was opened against the first applicant on multiple charges, including the use of violence against a law‑enforcement officer and the destruction of official documents. on 30 july 2003 the tverskoy district court of moscow found the first applicant guilty and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. on 19 november 2003 the city court upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal. it appears that the first applicant finished serving his prison sentence on 29 july 2005.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in ordzhenikidzevskaya, ingushetia. at the material time the applicant’s brother mr abubakar tsechoyev worked at the water-pumping station in ordzhenikidzevskaya, ingushetia. according to the applicant, as soon as he learnt of the abduction, he went to the sunzhenskiy district police station and informed the duty officer of the abduction of his brother from the water-pumping station. then they drove away in a vehicle, presumably, a uaz. overall, the abductors spent about an hour at the pumping station. according to our information, the abductors drove through a checkpoint situated on the road between ordzhenikidzevskaya and sernovodsk. on 23 march 2012 investigators examined the crime scene. he informed the investigators that the footage would be available for seven days as after that subsequent recording would automatically overwrite it. on 24 march 2012 the investigators took the applicant’s fingerprints to exclude them from the future expert examination of the adhesive tape collected at the crime scene. on 20 may 2012 the investigators obtained blood samples from ms r.ts. the witness stated that he would not be able to identify the perpetrators but that he was sure that the abduction had been perpetrated by professionals who had spoken unaccented russian and had acted quickly and had been able to incapacitate the employees within a few minutes without making any noise. the lights had been off in the entire station. on unspecified dates in 2012 (the pages with the dates and the names of the persons questioned were not furnished to the court) the investigators questioned twelve police officers who had been manning checkpoint assa situated between the settlement of nesterovskaya in ingushetia and the settlement of assinovskaya in chechnya between 11 p.m. on 22 march and 11 p.m. on 23 march 2012. who stated that he had learnt of the incident from mr i.g. and that he had quit his job after the abduction. and that her relatives had been detained and ill‑treated by state agents. similarly to her sons, the applicant and mr is.ts. ( the investigators also ignored the statement of the guard of the husbandry team who had seen that car at 5 p.m. on the day of the abduction ... i personally inspected the area and found the place where the car had pulled over leaving clear tyre tracks. no expert examination of the tyre tracks was carried out. i personally asked the investigators, including investigator g., about it, but they obtained the footage only on 30 march [2012], when everything had been already erased ...”on 11 june 2013 the ingushetia supreme court upheld the decision of the district court on appeal in a summary fashion.
on 31 january 2006 the applicant submitted a traffic accident report to an insurance company. according to that report she had been involved in a traffic accident in her car on 26 january 2006. the insurance company suspected fraud and informed the police. on 16 may 2008 a prosecutor drew up a bill of indictment against the applicant, p., k., t. and v. according to the bill of indictment, it had been established in the criminal investigation that the applicant, contrary to her allegations, had not been at the scene of the alleged accident. it was established that the applicant together with the other accused had submitted false information to the insurance company concerning the occurrence of an insured event, the persons who had been involved in the traffic accident, and the circumstances of the accident. this had been confirmed by p.’s statement. the applicant was therefore charged with inciting another person knowingly to give false testimony. on the basis of this statement of charges the applicant was committed for trial. the applicant and her counsel explicitly accepted this reasoning put forward by the prosecutor in support of discontinuance of the criminal proceedings. they also consented to the prosecutor’s request that the applicant be ordered to pay the procedural costs and perform community service. the applicant was ordered to pay 1,178 kroons (eek) (75 euros (eur)) to the public purse and perform eighty hours of community service. in the event of the applicant’s failure to perform these obligations, the court would ‒ at the request of the public prosecutor’s office ‒ resume the criminal proceedings. by a judgment of 3 december 2008, in settlement proceedings concerning the same criminal case, the tartu county court convicted k., t. and v. of insurance fraud. on 2 june 2009 the applicant brought a civil suit against the insurance company. in support of her insurance claim, the applicant submitted as evidence to the court the claims sent to the insurance company after the event in 2006, a copy of the 3 december 2008 ruling ordering discontinuance of the criminal proceedings, and documents proving the extent of the damage. the [applicant] therefore had no grounds for claiming the payout ... from the [insurance company]. ... the [applicant] is wrong in her understanding that she is not guilty because of the discontinuance of the criminal proceedings against her [on the basis of] article 202 § 2 (1) and (2) [of the code of criminal procedure]. it follows from this provision that the person’s guilt exists but it is negligible and that he or she has begun to remedy it or has assumed the obligation to pay the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings.” she argued that her consent to pay the expenses relating to the criminal proceedings did not mean that she had committed the offence. the county court has correctly found, relying on what was established by the tartu county court’s ruling and judgment of 3 december 2008, that the [applicant] took part ... in the staging of a traffic accident the aim of which was to cause an insured event to happen and to create the illusion of the occurrence of that insured event with the intention to obtain compensation from the insurer.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in vienna. the applicant was a public official working for the vienna municipality (magistrat der stadt wien). on 2 february 1996 the personnel office (personalamt) of the vienna municipality accepted the applicant’s resignation (entsagung), and held that she was entitled to severance pay (abfindung) amounting to three monthly salaries. on 18 march 1996 the same authority amended the aforementioned decision, stating that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay. on 3 september 1996 the appeal panel of the vienna municipality (berufungssenat der stadt wien) dismissed her appeal as unfounded. on 9 october 1996 the applicant lodged a complaint against the appeal decision with the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof). on 17 october 2001 the administrative court set aside the appeal decision of 3 september 1996 due to lack of jurisdiction of the personnel office of the vienna municipality. on 13 june 2002 the applicant filed a request for transfer of jurisdiction (devolutionsantrag), since the appeal panel had not rendered a fresh decision by then. however, on 7 august 2002, the appeal panel set aside the decision of 18 march 1996 and at the same time decided on the merits of the subject matter and stated that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay. on 30 november 2004 the constitutional court set aside the appeal panel’s decision on the merits due to lack of jurisdiction of the panel with regard to the subject matter. on 1 april 2005 the vienna municipal council (gemeinderat der stadt wien) rendered a decision declaring that the applicant was not eligible for severance pay. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision with the constitutional court on 17 may 2005. on 12 october 2005 the constitutional court declared that the applicant’s constitutionally guaranteed right to have proceedings determining her civil rights conducted within a reasonable time had been violated. however, it dismissed her request to set aside the decision of the municipal council and refused to deal with the remainder of the complaint. the constitutional court conceded that the proceedings had already had an overall duration of approximately nine years, which resulted entirely from the conduct of the authorities and courts involved. furthermore, the subject matter of the proceedings was not particularly complex. however, setting aside the decision (preliminarily) concluding those overly long proceedings would not be capable of remedying the violation of the applicant’s rights; on the contrary, it would again delay the termination of the proceedings. on 16 december 2005 the applicant amended her complaint for the proceedings before the administrative court. on 13 march 2009 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as unfounded. that judgment was served on the applicant’s counsel on 3 april 2009.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently detained in arad. by a final decision of 21 march 2001 the arad district court convicted the applicant of rape of a minor and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. the applicant’s detention started on 21 january 2001 and lasted until 24 may 2011, when he was released from prison on probation. on 11 july 2013 the applicant was again detained, following a new conviction for the rape of two girls who were minors, and was incarcerated in colibaşi prison. in his letters to the court, the applicant contended that in arad and timişoara prisons he had been kept in overcrowded cells. despite the fact that he was a non-smoker, he had had to share a cell with smokers. moreover, the applicant alleged that he had been transferred from one prison to another or from prison to court in vans with detainees who smoked. the prison authorities took into account the fact that the applicant had been convicted of the rape of a minor and for most of his stay he had therefore been placed alone in an individual cell of 10.40 square metres. the applicant was detained in timişoara prison on several occasions, for five hundred and sixty days in total. on these occasions he was detained in the medical unit of the prison or in cells used for transit. 1 measuring 19.69 square metres, containing eight beds (that is 2.46 square metres per bed);- cell no. 12 measuring 7.60 square metres containing three beds (that is 2.53 square metres per bed);- cell no 35 neasuring 20.84 square metres containing ten beds (that is 2.08 square metres per bed);- cell no. 66 measuring 21.16 square metres containing nine beds (that is 2.35 square metres per bed). the government did not provide any information concerning either the number of the detainees who had occupied the cells or the time spent by the applicant in each of the above-mentioned cells. both prisons had a central heating system providing adequate heating in the winter. cold water had always been available and hot water was available daily according to a schedule approved by the prison authorities. concerning the hygiene in the cell, the government submitted that prisoners had been responsible for cleaning the cells and were provided with cleaning products by the prison administration. the applicant had been transferred between the prison facilities in vehicles fitted with windows, lights, heating and sunroofs. these vehicles had had between sixteen and thirty-eight seats. smoking was strictly prohibited during transfers, and the applicant had anyway been transported separately from smokers.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in tbilisi. however, article 94 of the constitution only recognised the latter two kinds of compulsory payment to the state. the applicant was arrested on 16 march 2004. firstly, the expert listed the acts which constituted the legal basis for the activities of the caa and which were in force before and after 1 april 2003, when the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003 had entered into force. in each case, the caa’s remuneration had been calculated on a monthly basis and was referred to as a fee for services provided in the field of regulation. 1, which had been issued by the applicant on 25 november 2003, the expert noted that the order, approved for entry into force by the ministry of justice on 27 november 2003, had been able to be applied retrospectively, that is as of 1 october 2003, which was the date of the termination of the three above-mentioned contracts. payment of the fee to the caa did not therefore cause them any financial damage and, even if there had nevertheless been a loss, it would in the end have been passed on to the consumer. generally, the expert established that the caa had received, between 1 april 2003 and 13 march 2004, gel 630,000 (some 310,000 euros (eur)) in fees for the regulatory services provided under the three impugned contracts with tbilisi international airport, air-bp-georgia and sakaeronavigatsia, and gel 774,376 (some eur 380,000) by way of the fee collected on the basis of order no. 1, issued by the applicant; (iii) and, thirdly, the three companies – sakaeronavigatsia (a government-owned undertaking), tbilisi international airport and air‑bp‑georgia – had paid the fee for services to the caa on the basis of contracts concluded by the applicant. he again pointed out that the judgment of the constitutional court at issue authorised the caa to continue to charge the fee for services, provided that the payment was based on negotiated contracts and not imposed, as hitherto. in particular, the investigator pointed out that everyone had to comply with the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003, which had the force of law, but which the applicant had failed to do. furthermore, by giving retrospective effect to order no. on 20 september 2004 the indictment was approved by a deputy chief prosecutor and the case sent for trial before the vake-saburtalo district court of first instance in tbilisi (“the vake-saburtalo court”). he asked that he be released immediately. when questioned by the tbilisi city court during the trial, the acting director and the chief accountant of sakaeronavigatsia confirmed that their company had paid the relevant fee to the caa even after the constitutional court’s judgment of 10 january 2003, either on the basis of a contract or on the basis of order no. the second deputy chairperson of the caa told the court that he had personally worked on drafting contracts which were subsequently entered into with the three civil aviation companies. consequently, neither he nor anyone else had derived any personal profit from the amounts in question. the applicant’s prison sentence was amended and set at four years. on 14 september 2006 the supreme court of georgia dismissed the appeal on points of law by the applicant, stating that by continuing to charge the fees to the various private companies after 1 april 2003 the applicant had misapplied the judgment of the constitutional court of 10 january 2003 and had thus committed an abuse of power, infringing the rights of various legal entities and the general legal interests of the state. after serving his sentence in full, the applicant was released on 14 march 2008.
on 27 june 2006 a nineteen-year old woman, k., went to a party in novy sanzhary, a small town, and never returned home. the material in the case file (namely, a copy of the applicant’s indictment) contains reference to the statements of police officers i. and f. saying that on 8 or 9 july 2006, while the applicant was in the cell at the novy sanzhary police station, they questioned him without a lawyer in connection with k’.s disappearance. g. also arrested the applicant on suspicion of murder, robbery and rape. the applicant confirmed his previous statements. however, from the material in the case file, the authenticity of which the applicant did not dispute before the court, it follows that on 11 july 2006 the investigator g. appointed lawyer v. to represent the applicant under the legal aid scheme and questioned the applicant in his presence. the applicant confirmed in writing that he wished to have s. as his lawyer. on 18 july 2006 the applicant was examined by a forensic medical expert, who observed no injuries and reported no complaints. no such evidence was discovered on the crime scene either. later that day he was questioned in s.’s presence and said that he had not intended to kill or rape k. he had only decided to rape her after she had fainted. he also said that he had given his earlier statements voluntarily without being physically or psychologically coerced into doing so. the applicant did not deny that it was the same pennant. on the same day the applicant was informed that the pre-trial investigation was completed and the indictment was drafted. on 28 september 2006 the case was sent for trial to the poltava regional court of appeal. on 16 november 2006, during a court hearing at which lawyer s. was present, the applicant stated that after k. had kicked him in the groin he had suddenly struck her on the neck with one hand. she had fainted and he had put her body in the bushes and left. the window had been covered by a plastic sheet making it impossible to open. he had therefore enjoyed 2.6 square metres of personal space. from 26 january 2009 to 12 march 2010 he had been detained with three other inmates in cell no. the sizo windows could be opened and had not been blocked with plastic sheets. the government did not deny that the applicant had been unable to leave the cells he had been held in.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in the town of severodonetsk, ukraine. the parties did not submit a copy of that letter to the court. and k. studied the applicant’s letters at the prosecutor’s office and decided that the applicant should be examined, since the letters contained evidence of a “high probability of socially dangerous behaviour”. once the applicant had opened the door, ma. said that they should go to a hospital to examine the applicant there. introduced himself and had a conversation with the applicant. since he refused, he was further examined by three doctors of the lugansk regional psychoneurological hospital (луганська обласна клінічна психоневрологічна лікарня, hereinafter the “lugansk hospital”), who concluded that he should be urgently admitted for treatment because he had written threatening letters to various authorities. each time it was decided that his treatment had to be continued. in july and august 2001 the applicant requested that the medical establishments where he had stayed in 2000 allow him to study his medical file and inform him on what legal basis he had been subjected to psychiatric treatment. on 26 september 2001 the applicant brought proceedings before the severodonetskyy town court against the severodonetsk hospital, complaining of its failure to reply to his request. on 21 november 2002 the lugansk regional court of appeal quashed that decision and remitted the case for fresh consideration. he also complained that he had been unlawfully transferred to the lugansk hospital and the svatove hospital, where he had been confined until 4 december 2000. following a request by one of the defendants, on 23 march 2004 the court ordered a forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant. according to the government, all of them took place; according to the domestic court record, ten of them did not take place because the defendants, the applicant or their representatives failed to appear. he had not lodged any complaints since he had been “afraid for his future”. and g. testified that no pressure had been brought to bear on the applicant at the time of the visit to his home. 225 of the ministry of health of the ussr of 25 march 1988 “on actions for further improvement of psychiatric assistance” (“order no. the court found that the visit to the applicant’s home on 19 march 2000 when the applicant had been examined and later taken to the severodonetsk hospital had been performed in compliance with paragraphs 1, 2, and 10 to 13 of instruction no. 16 and paragraphs 1, 2 (b), 5 and 6 of instruction no. the applicant appealed, stating, in particular, that by order no.
the applicants were born in 1954, 1976 and 1971 respectively and live in lecco. the other two applicants are journalists working for the newspaper. in the course of their activities, the applicants used radio equipment to access frequencies used by the police or the carabinieri. this enabled them to learn of any communications transmitted in that way, so that they could arrive quickly on the scene when wishing to report on specific incidents. on 1 august 2002 the applicants listened in on a conversation during which the merate carabinieri operations centre decided to send a patrol to a location where, according to anonymous sources, weapons had been stored illegally. the carabinieri accordingly went to the location mentioned, and the second and third applicants arrived on the scene immediately afterwards. having obtained a search warrant, the carabinieri searched the applicants’ car, finding two frequency-modulation transmitter/receivers that were capable of intercepting police radio communications. criminal proceedings were instituted against the first and second applicants for illegally installing equipment designed to intercept communications between law-enforcement agencies’ operations centres and patrols (articles 617, 617 bis and 623 bis of the criminal code). on 9 november 2004 the lecco district court acquitted the applicants. it held that the relevant articles of the criminal code were to be interpreted in the light of article 15 of the constitution, which only protected communications of a confidential nature. accordingly, the interception of the communications in question did not constitute an offence. moreover, the possession and use of radio receivers were not prohibited as such. the milan principal public prosecutor and the lecco public prosecutor appealed. in addition, the communications concerned the initial investigations following the commission of an offence. they were therefore subject to a confidentiality requirement pursuant to article 329 of the code of criminal procedure. in addition, in accordance with presidential decree no. in a judgment of 15 may 2007 the milan court of appeal found the first and second applicants guilty and sentenced them to one year and three months’ imprisonment. the third applicant was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment. the court of appeal suspended the applicants’ sentences. however, that right could not take precedence in a case concerning the illegal interception of communications between law-enforcement officers.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently serving a prison sentence. these proceedings were eventually joined into a single criminal case (“the theft proceedings”). was arrested as a suspect in these proceedings. on 17 august 2001 the magdalynivsky district court (hereafter “the district court”) remanded the applicant in custody pending pre-trial investigation of the above charges. repeated the statement he had made earlier that day. the investigation team and forensic experts also examined the applicant’s car in his absence. on 26 september 2001 the applicant was charged with ten counts of theft and with causing a traffic accident which resulted in l.g. on an unspecified date the applicant was committed for trial on the charges of theft and causing a fatal traffic accident. no verdict was reached on the other charge (see paragraph 21 below). by the same judgment, eleven other individuals, including v.z., were convicted on various counts of theft in collaboration with the applicant and were sentenced to various penalties. on 19 february 2003 the district court found the applicant guilty on several counts of theft and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. on 24 february 2003 the murder proceedings were resumed and joined to the criminal proceedings concerning the traffic accident. on 13 october 2003 the applicant had a face-to-face confrontation with v.z. on 14 january 2004 the criminal case was sent to the court of appeal, acting as the first-instance court, for trial. the murder charges of 11 february 2002 were dropped. ’s death and of the aggravated murder of a.g. on 27 april 2004 the criminal proceedings concerning the theft charges were suspended. was found by the court to be inconsistent in its details and therefore not truthful. on numerous occasions the applicant complained to the court of appeal and other state authorities that his term of imprisonment had been calculated incorrectly in the judgment of 21 may 2004, and that the starting point should have been the date of his first arrest in connection with the theft charges, i.e. 15 august 2001, rather than 10 october 2003.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in the town of shargorod, ukraine. that night the applicant complained of a headache and general sickness. the applicant came home and told his family what had happened. the government did not provide a detailed description of the events of 30-31 december 2002 but it appears from their observations that they agreed with the findings of the national investigation authorities (see paragraphs 48-50 below). on 2 january 2003 the applicant was examined at a hospital and was hospitalised the next day. the applicant stayed in hospital until 11 february 2003. on 18 february and 3 march 2003 several factory employees (f., s., lo. – the applicant’s mother-in-law testified that a police officer l. had aimed a blow at the applicant as he was lying on the ground but she had not seen the applicant being beaten. the deputy prosecutor noted that the applicant had stated that he had not intended to steal aluminium but had entered the factory premises out of curiosity and had run away out of fear of being accused of theft, that l. and p. had denied using physical force on the applicant and that the factory employees said that they had not seen l. beat the applicant. on 10 april 2003 this decision was quashed by a higher prosecutor since it had not been established how the applicant’s injuries had been inflicted. between february and june 2005 the applicant, his family members, factory employees and police officers were again questioned and a reconstruction of events was staged in the police station. she also stated that l. had hit the applicant on the head with his gun handle. the factory employees f. and a. testified that they had seen the applicant running away and falling over on his way to the fence and again when climbing over the fence. by a letter of 5 may 2005 the vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that investigating officers k. and t. had been disciplined for delaying the investigation. on 2 june 2005 the shargorod territorial medical unit (шаргородське територіальне медичне об’єднання), in reply to a request from vinnytsya regional prosecutor’s office, submitted that on 30 and 31 december 2002 the applicant had not received any medical assistance from an ambulance team. he submitted that when he had seen the applicant in court on 31 december 2002 the applicant had had no injuries to his head or hands, nor had he complained about any health problems. on 22 september 2005 the vinnytsya regional court of appeal quashed these decisions and remitted the case for a fresh investigation. on 13 april 2006 the vinnytsya regional court of appeal rejected the prosecutor’s appeal against the decision of 20 february 2006. the expert had also been asked additional questions on the same day. inside the building, l. and the factory employees found aluminium sheets torn from the ceiling and piled up against a wall.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in budapest. as the head of the national council of justice, the applicant was under an explicit statutory obligation to express an opinion on parliamentary bills that affected the judiciary, after having gathered and summarised the opinions of different courts via the office of the national council of justice (see paragraph 44 below). on 13 october 2011 the general assembly of the network of the presidents of the supreme judicial courts of the european union elected the applicant president of the network for a two-year term (2011 to 2013). this is a serious constitutional problem. ... on 24 march 2011, in a speech delivered to parliament in the course of the debate on the bill on the fundamental law of hungary (the new constitution), the applicant expressed his opinion on certain aspects of the proposed constitutional reform which concerned the judiciary, notably the new name given to the supreme court – kúria –, the new powers attributed to the kúria in the field of ensuring consistency in the case-law, the management of the judiciary and the functioning of the national council of justice, as well as the introduction of a constitutional appeal against judicial decisions. on the morning of 11 april 2011 (the day of the vote on the proposals to amend the retirement age of judges), the applicant addressed a letter to the prime minister, in which he stressed that the proposal was humiliating and professionally unjustifiable; it infringed the fundamental principles of the independence, status and irremovability of judges; and it was also discriminatory, since only the judiciary was concerned. on the same day, however, parliament adopted the proposal (see relevant domestic law below). the relevant extracts from the communiqué read as follows:“according to the proposal, the mandatory retirement age of judges will be reduced by eight years as of 1 january 2012. by 31 december 2012 a further 46 judges will have to terminate their careers. as a consequence of this decision, the rapidity of judicial proceedings will significantly deteriorate (nearly 40,000 cases will have to be reassigned, which may even result in several years’ delay in judicial proceedings, concerning tens of thousands of persons). the administration of the courts will be seriously hindered, since it is extremely difficult to replace dozens of retiring judges. the constitutional court, in its judgment no. he said that it did not address the structural problems of the judiciary, but left them to “the discretion of the executive of an external administration (the president of the proposed national judicial office, which would replace the national council of justice in managing the courts), who [would be] assigned excessive and, in europe, unprecedented powers, with no adequate accountability”. the fundamental law of 25 april 2011 established that the highest judicial body would be the kúria (the historical hungarian name for the supreme court). on 19 november 2011 gergely gulyás submitted a bill (no. t/4996) to parliament, proposing an amendment to the 1949 constitution (then in force). the amendment provided that parliament would elect the president of the kúria by 31 december 2011 at the latest. t/4996 on the amendment of the act xx of 1949 on the constitution of the republic of hungary and also to bill no. the transitional provisions were published in the official gazette on 31 december 2011. the applicant remained in office as president of a civil-law division of the kúria.
the applicants were born in 1938 and 1939 respectively and live in the city of kherson, ukraine. drafted a training exercise for traffic police officers in the city of kherson and the village of antonivka in the context of operation sirena. the hijacked car would be followed by a second car containing a police officer, ts., it was established by the police internal investigation that p. failed to do so. passed the aforementioned post without being stopped. his radio transmitter had not been working properly and he had left his post in order to inform the traffic police office in charge that the hijacked car had passed their post. testified that he had given k. prior notice of the training exercise. 20/10-33 of 9 january 2000 issued by the kherson regional department of the ministry of interior ..., l. ... drafted a training scenario for traffic police personnel ... when doing so he did not take into consideration the provisions of operation sirena ... [it] is pointless and not efficient to conduct training only for the traffic police officers of kherson and antonivka. as a result, it was concluded that police officers k., o., p., os. on 17 january 2000 the ministry of the interior issued an order which noted that even though safety and the prevention of death and injury in respect of police officers were priorities in police activities, there had been a number of serious shortcomings in the organisation and conduct of the training exercise, which had led to the incident in question. in particular, the expert was asked to determine what injuries were on the corpse. testified that he and the applicants’ son had been “aware that the police officers [would] have guns with live rounds”;- traffic police officer ko. testified that he had told k. about the training;- police officer ts. it was noted that this decision was not subject to appeal. the court noted that although the second applicant had been absent from the court hearing on 13 july 2000, she had been aware of that decision since at least 2004 and had received a copy of it on 23 january 2008 at the latest. on 27 and 28 june 2000, citing the same reasons, the district prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against p. and o.  on 18 august 2000 those decisions were quashed by the kherson regional prosecutor’s office and the case was remitted for additional investigation. the recommenced proceedings were again terminated on 29 march 2001. p. testified that, “under the department’s instructions regarding the ‘sirena’ training plan”, it had not been his responsibility to circulate the information that the announcement about the car hijacking was part of a training exercise. the applicants instituted proceedings against the kherson regional department claiming compensation for damage inflicted by their son’s death. on 15 january 2002 the kherson regional court of appeal upheld that decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in odesa. he noted that the applicant had been suspected in having committed a serious crime and, if released, might abscond in order to avoid the investigation and prevent the establishment of the truth in the case. the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 8 april 2004 the investigation was completed and the criminal case was sent for trial. on 5 may 2004, in the committal hearings, the district court made no ruling in respect of the applicant’s further detention. the parties provided different accounts of the events. no copy of the complaint has been provided to the court. thereafter, he had been forced to go to the police station. the government submitted that no pressure or physical force had been used on the applicant whilst being apprehended and that the latter had voluntarily agreed to go with the officers to the police station. they were armed and used physical coercion, hitting him on his head several times with their firearms. when the applicant opened the door, they had checked his documents, had apprehended him and had escorted him to the police station. by the aforementioned ruling of 29 march 2005, the district court ordered the prosecutor’s office to identify, by 11 april 2005, the persons who had apprehended the applicant and to question them and the applicant’s sister in relation to the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment. the applicant had got dressed and had gone with the police officers. she stated, however, that she had heard raised voices during the conversation between the applicant and the police officers. on 4 june 2007 the prosecutor questioned the police officer who had been identified as the one who had apprehended the applicant. on the same day, on the basis of the above-mentioned statements by the police officer, the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officer, having found that no physical force had been applied to the applicant and that he had voluntarily agreed to go to the police station. the documents before the court indicate that on 26 january 2004 the applicant was admitted to odesa sizo. the case file suggests that in 2006 the applicant’s lawyer had made inquiries to the sizo authorities and the city hospital about the applicant’s possible injuries following the alleged ill-treatment. m (intended for 12 detainees);- cell no. according to the government, the conditions in those cells had been adequate and they were equipped with the requisite furnishings and facilities and a partitioned toilet.
on 24 february 1998 police carried out an initial forensic investigation of an apartment which a.m. and her son had shared with the applicants in june 1997, the date she had last been seen. on 18 august 1998 the applicants were sentenced to periods of imprisonment of eight years’ and six years’ respectively following their conviction for various sexual offences. following the interviews, neither applicant was arrested or charged with any offence owing to insufficient evidence. they were therefore returned to prison to continue serving their respective sentences. a full missing person report was submitted to the national missing persons bureau at new scotland yard (london). they were returned to the united kingdom, where they were recalled to prison to serve the unexpired portion of their licence periods. the police continued to pursue their investigation and enquiries. on 6 june 2005 the crown office provisionally fixed a preliminary hearing date for 12 september 2005. the twelve-month period for bringing proceedings expired on 4 april 2006 and the lord advocate did not seek an extension of time. on 10 september 2008 the applicants were served with an indictment which contained the same charges as the 2005 petition. although the applicants were granted permission to appeal, their appeal was refused on 5 june 2009. the first applicant also argued that the murder charge against him should be dismissed for reason of delay. the first applicant appealed against the decision not to dismiss the charge against him. in dismissing the first applicant’s appeal, the appeal court accepted that the police had interrogated him “robustly” in 1998, but agreed with the high court that he was not “charged” until 5 april 2005. the applicants’ trial for the sexual offences took place between 19 april 2010 and 13 may 2010. both applicants unsuccessfully sought to appeal against conviction and sentence. on 10 june 2010 a jury convicted the applicants of murder and attempting to pervert the course of justice. the first applicant lodged a note of appeal on 2 september 2010, containing numerous grounds and sub-grounds on a wide range of issues regarding all the charges. on 8 february 2012 the appeal court granted the first applicant leave to appeal against his conviction on one ground only, which alleged an error by the trial judge. in doing so, it distinguished the applicants’ case from that of ambrose v. harris [2011] uksc 43, in which the supreme court accepted that an appellant, who was complaining that there had been a breach of his right to legal advice under article 6 § 1, had been “charged” following his caution by police in connection with the alleged offence.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in belgrade. the applicant was employed by “pim – bagerovanje i vodni transport”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (“the debtor”). on 30 march 2005 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified sums in respect of salary arrears, social security contributions and procedural costs. this judgment became final on the same date. on 22 june 2005 the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) issued an enforcement order with regard to the said judgement. on 29 march 2012, acting upon the applicant’s constitutional appeal, the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court ordered the acceleration of the proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of eur 700, converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement. the enforcement proceedings instituted on the basis of the judgment rendered by the belgrade second municipal court on 30 march 2005 continued and are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in węglówka. on a narrow section of the road they saw a police car trying to stop another car. while being overtaken, the police officers noticed that the car driven by the applicant’s wife had no left rear light and that its rear registration plate was not lit. they overtook the applicant and his wife, stopped the car and requested the relevant documents. they tried to contact the nowy targ police station to confirm the identity of the driver but to no avail. they found that, apart from the light that did not work, the fire extinguisher in the car was too small. the applicant then told her: “do not sign anything for those beggars” (“nie podpisuj nic tym dziadom”). the policemen repeated “this will cost a lot” each time they found a fault with the car. when the applicant calmed down he was handcuffed. the applicant was subsequently taken to the police station. skin bruising on the right hand, chemical burn to the right eye, reddish conjunctivitis in the right eye.” he submitted that he had been apprehended by force and put onto the ground, that the police had used a whole container of pepper spray and that he had many scratches and bruises. he had been released from the police custody facility at about midday and let out by the back door without a jacket or any money. on 4 february 2009 the district court refused to allow the applicant’s complaint. he submitted that he had not intended to hit anybody. as he could not rule out that he had made the movements with his legs involuntarily, without the intention of hitting anybody. on 28 january 2009 the applicant reported the two police officers who had arrested him on 26 january 2009 to the nowy targ district prosecutor for abuse of power. he argued, among other things, that the prosecutor had not properly examined the circumstances of the case; the officers had apprehended him for no legal reason. on 12 august 2009 the district court upheld the challenged decision discontinuing the investigation. the court further held that “it had been reprehensible not to have informed the applicant’s wife of the applicant’s release but this had not constituted any offence”.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in warsaw. the applicant was detained from 15 june 2007 until 21 january 2009 after a conviction. neither the applicant nor the government contested them. initially, the applicant had one hot shower per week. from 18 october 2007 that number was increased to five per month. he did not submit any documents to that effect. the applicant submitted that for the whole of 2008 he had not been able to attend sunday mass at the remand centre. prisoners wishing to attend had to sign up with their supervisors (wychowawca). the system had been designed to select prisoners on a rotation basis, according to their classification groups and in a way so as not to mix prisoners classed as dangerous detainees with those who did not require any special security measures. at times, however, individual prisoners were rejected because they did not belong to the group authorised to attend mass on a particular day. during his detention in koszalin remand centre, the applicant often made appointments with the in-house doctor because of colds, back ache and prostate problems. on 15 november 2007 a drug called prostamol was prescribed for the applicant, in compliance with his wish. in addition to that treatment, from 18 october 2007 onwards, he was entitled to an additional monthly shower. consequently, the applicant’s treatment was changed slightly. it was also established that the first symptoms of that disorder had appeared prior to the applicant’s detention, in 2004. in 2007 and 2009 the applicant lodged a number of complaints with the ombudsman, the ministry of justice and the relevant penitentiary court, informing them of the allegedly deplorable conditions of his detention, his inadequate medical care and of unreasonable restrictions on the practice of his religion during his detention in koszalin remand centre. the remand facility in dobrowo had not registered any overcrowding. he claimed 50,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 12,000 euros (eur)) in compensation. the evidence which was obtained by the civil court, inter alia, the applicant’s medical history, witness testimony and the report of an expert in dermatology, had disproved the applicant’s allegations that he had contracted his skin condition in the remand centre because his mattress had been dirty and damp and that his illness had been inadequately treated. the applicant submitted a hand-written appeal against the above-mentioned judgment, dated 24 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in enschede. on 21 may 2010 the applicant was convicted of shoplifting. from these statements it appeared that the applicant was a drug addict who would not voluntarily cooperate with treatment plans. the regional court further decided that the measure would be reviewed six months from the date the judgment became final (5 june 2010). the applicant’s personal case officer, issued a progress report about the applicant, containing, amongst other things, the following:“[the applicant] is currently residing in fpa de cederborg. the placement is progressing reasonably well. (...) if the measure should be terminated, [the applicant] will immediately find himself in a situation where he has no income, housing or daily activities. the risk of reoffending is consequently high. on 9 june 2011 the regional court decided to prolong the measure further, holding that there was a considerable likelihood that the applicant would reoffend after his release. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision on 15 june 2011. on 12 december 2011 a hearing took place before the court of appeal. it appeared that the applicant was unable to understand the interpreter who spoke assyrian. it was also determined that case officer g.d. should be heard as an expert witness and that an interpreter speaking aramaic should be present at the next hearing. after a period of three months had elapsed, counsel for the applicant inquired with the court of appeal into the progress of the proceedings on 13 march and again on 2 april 2012. the risk of reoffending is maximally reduced at this moment. the clinical features of [the applicant] play an important role in this, but cederborg [the institution] could have signalled earlier that there were no further possibilities to treat [the applicant]. it would appear that sheltered accommodation became available for the applicant on 11 may 2012. it took more than ten months after the appeal was lodged before it was dealt with on the merits. terminationthe court of appeal has held that the execution of the measure has not been sufficiently expeditious in all stages.
the applicants all live in žilina, except for mr kyška, mr p. lalinský and ms vestfálová, who live in turie, bytča and nemecká nad hronom respectively. 74258/01, 27 november 2007 (merits) and 27 january 2009 (just satisfaction)), jenisová (no. 58764/00, 3 november 2009), šefčíková (no. 6284/02, 3 november 2009), and salus (no. in the case of the applicant ms l. kothajová, an agreement was reached that, as from 2004, she would be paid rent equivalent to eur 0.01168 per square metre and per year. the applicable statutory regime was amended ‒ after the court’s above-mentioned judgments had become final ‒ with effect from 1 april 2011 by law no. which adjusted the rent payable to owners in a situation such as the applicants’ to a level commensurate with the market rent. however, prior to the entry into force of the amendments introduced by law no. these amendments left the compulsory tenancy introduced by the allotments act unaffected. such proceedings are also provided for under the act, their aim being to have the ownership and use of the land in the allotment area consolidated, principally by transferring title to the land to the gardeners and having the former owners compensated by means regulated under the act, the details of such consolidation being defined in what is known as a “land consolidation project”. in the applicants’ case, the gardeners initiated the requisite land consolidation proceedings on 7 december 1998. their positions and the documents submitted in their support may be summarised as follows. later, the applicants also submitted report no. 492/2004, taking into account the gsi resulting from the amendments introduced by regulation no. the government for their part submitted the following documents:‒ a letter from the forensic engineering institute in žilina dated 17 december 2012, in which the institute pointed out what they considered to be methodological flaws in the calculations of expert a. on the basis of their pro forma recalculation of the available data, the value of the annual general rent would be eur 0.239 per square metre. on the basis of the general value of the land as established in these valuations, which took into account legislative amendment no. 57/2011, the government contended that the average general value of the annual rent payable for land comparable to the applicants’ was eur 0.38. ‒ a full expert report drawn up by the institute in 2014, numbered 86/2014, which had been preceded by the institute’s own investigations. 492/2004, the institute calculated the general value of the annual rent payable for the property in question as of 31 march 2014 as eur 0.718 per square metre. 492/2004 could not be used in relation to the preceding periods.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1964, respectively, and live in hajdukovo. on 12 february 2007 the applicants and their friend s.k. were indicted for allegedly having stolen a wine press (presu za grožđe). on 25 january 2008 the subotica municipal court acquitted all three defendants of these charges. in so doing, it explained that while there was evidence that they had been in possession of a press, there was nothing to suggest that they had obtained it through any criminal activity. the applicants themselves maintained that they had found the press abandoned, while s.k. denied the charge and thereafter exercised his right to remain silent. no material evidence was introduced during the trial and, apart from the statement by the alleged victim ‒ who maintained that the press worked and had been kept in a locked yard ‒ the statements of two witnesses supported the applicants’ defence. on 8 april 2008 the prosecution lodged an appeal against this judgment, emphasising, in particular, that the first-instance court had failed to take into account a statement given to the police by s.k. on 26 january 2006 (albeit in the absence of the applicants and their counsel, who had not been invited to attend). on 12 may 2008 the subotica district court quashed the impugned judgment and ordered a retrial. had confessed ‒ in the presence of his counsel ‒ that he had stolen the press together with the applicants. ’s statement of 26 january 2006 be admitted as evidence. died and on 29 december 2008 the municipal court discontinued the proceedings against him. ’s statement of 26 january 2006 before the parties, found the applicants guilty. the first applicant was sentenced to an effective prison term of six months while the second applicant was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment, suspended for a period of two years. in its reasoning the court primarily relied on s.k. no evidence different from that admitted during the first trial was introduced during the retrial. in the meantime, on 11 september 2009, the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court, alleging that their conviction had been based on the testimony of a person whom they had never had a chance to cross-examine and who had, in any event, revoked it subsequently. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal as manifestly ill-founded, adding that ‒ as a consequence of the death of s.k. ‒
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in zagreb. on 16 november 2009 the municipal court held a hearing, which the applicant attended. the applicant did not attend the hearing of 17 december 2009, at which the court made a decision to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) in accordance with section 216(1) of the civil procedure act (see paragraph 18 below). he further stated that, after the hearing, he had spoken by telephone with the defendant’s representative, who had told him that, despite his (the representative’s) suggestion to proceed and hear the defendant’s testimony, the court had decided to adjourn the hearing and suspend the proceedings. he explained that suspending proceedings was an instrument for maintaining procedural discipline, the effect of which was to delay proceedings and thereby penalise the parties for their inaction. such conduct from the judge is absolutely unacceptable. ...the contested decision should therefore be quashed.” t]hat statement is certainly offensive to the court and the judge [concerned], and as such constitutes unacceptable communication between the court and the advocate representing one of the parties. by making that offensive statement, the advocate in question implies that the judge hearing the case proceeds pointlessly, and most likely proceeds pointlessly with all other cases, which represents a serious insult to both the court and the judge. the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that his statement had not been offensive or demeaning. in particular, in his appeal, the applicant wrote, inter alia, the following:“the operative provisions [of the contested decision] indicate that the fine was imposed for offending the court in the appeal of 31 december 2009 by stating, ‘such conduct from the judge is absolutely unacceptable. the quoted statement does not represent an insult. [ rather,] it is an assessment of how usefully the proceedings in the present case were conducted. ...in addition to the plaintiff’s representative, the defendant and [her] representative attended the hearing scheduled for 16 november 2009. beside this, nothing else happened at that hearing. only at the request of the plaintiff’s representative did the judge decide to schedule the next hearing. ...in the circumstances, it is evident that the hearing scheduled for 17 december 2009 would have been identical ... to the previous hearing. ...given that the purpose of a hearing is concentrated deliberation, that purpose is frustrated when such concentrated deliberation is lacking. ...no intention to offend was expressed in the submissions in question [that is, the appeal of 31 december 2009]. that decision was served on the applicant on 11 february 2011.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in sebedražie. this land partly neighbours a road and is partly separated from that road by another plot belonging to the applicant. the title of the applicant’s father to this land was later transferred to the applicant. such arrangements were to stay in place until the completion of the land consolidation proceedings in the area. the completion of those proceedings was scheduled for 2014. the exact formulation of the relief sought evolved in the course of the proceedings; the action ultimately sought to obtain an injunction ordering the applicant to (i) remove the fence, gate, vegetation and anything else obstructing passage over the property in question; (ii) re-establish the original track; and (iii) allow and not hinder the claimants’ passage by that track. the courts had regard to witness, expert and documentary evidence examined at seven hearings before the first-instance court and to the findings of three in situ examinations conducted by the first-instance judge. the latter finding was primarily based on a written representation made by the land authority, evidence from three witnesses, and written statements from four other persons. accordingly, the applicant was to enable and not to obstruct passage across the land. this ruling became enforceable on 13 march 2010. it should therefore have been disregarded and the expert should be paid either no or reduced remuneration. on 27 january 2010 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 24 october 2008. the applicant appealed against this order. after that ruling was served on the parties, the costs order against the applicant became final and binding on 31 may 2010. the decisions of 24 october 2008 and 4 february 2010 were issued with reference to the same file number of the district court as in the proceedings on the merits. the enforcement of the above rulings appears to be still pending. in the constitutional court’s decision, those observations were reflected as follows:the president of the district court observed that the claimant and others involved had long been using the disputed track and that the state of affairs had been accepted by the applicant and his father until the applicant had arbitrarily barred the track in 2000, apparently guided by the mistaken belief that his title to the property concerned was absolute. on 14 april 2011 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it found no unfairness in the proceedings and held, in particular with reference to the reasons for the regional court’s decision, that the lower courts’ conclusions had been sufficiently reasoned and not arbitrary. on 16 july 2010 the applicant lodged a fresh constitutional complaint against the district court and the regional court, challenging the costs order against him (4 february and 16 april 2010), and alleging a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention on the grounds that the courts had disregarded his arguments and had decided arbitrarily.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in bibice. however, the parents were in conflict with each other and had negative feelings about each other. on 22 november 2010 the kraków regional court issued an interim contact order. it decided that the applicant was allowed to see his daughter every second weekend between 3 p.m. on friday and 5 p.m. on sunday, and also between 3 p.m. on tuesday and 3 p.m. on wednesday. in addition, he could spend every second christmas eve, every christmas day and every easter sunday with her. that application was dismissed on 29 march 2011. on 20 may 2011 the psychologist treating n. suggested a change in the contact order so that n. would not have to stay overnight at the applicant’s house, as that was apparently causing her a lot of stress. contact meetings had resumed in may 2010 and had continued regularly until november 2010. the applicant saw his daughter on her birthday and on a few occasions after school. on 2 january 2012 the guardian submitted a supplementary report to the court. she did not mind seeing him more often than scheduled, but she did not want to stay overnight at his house. on 7 march 2011 the applicant lodged two applications for the court to impose a fine on the mother for failing to comply with the interim contact order of 22 november 2010. the applicant lodged numerous further applications for the court to impose fines on e. in particular, he lodged two applications on 1 june 2011, two on 7 june 2011, four on 24 june 2011, three on 25 july 2011, three on 8 august 2011 and one on 23 august 2011. at a further hearing held on 28 october 2011, with reference to the applicant’s motion of 7 march 2011, the kraków-krowodrza district court ordered the mother to comply with the interim contact order within two weeks on pain of a fine of 1,000 polish zlotys (pln). upon further appeal, the kraków regional court quashed that decision on 30 july 2012. the kraków regional court held that the district court had focused on the application to fine e. and had failed to consider the applicant’s other requests. on 1 october 2012 the kraków-nowa huta district court issued an interim contact order and allowed e.’s request. the expert stated that the weakening of the emotional bond between the applicant and n. had been caused by a series of events. his new partner) she had returned home crying and had refused to go with her father. the mother had not been right to cut off contact between n. and her father.
mr tadeucci (“the first applicant”) was born in 1965. mr mccall (“the second applicant”) was born in 1958. the applicants have formed a same-sex couple since 1999. they lived in new zealand, with the status of unmarried couple, until december 2003, when they decided to settle in italy on grounds of the first applicant’s poor health. during their first period of residence in italy the second applicant had a student’s temporary residence permit. on 18 october 2004 the chief of the livorno police rejected his application on the ground that the statutory criteria were not satisfied. on 27 january 2005 the applicants appealed on the basis of legislative decree no. 286 of 1998, requesting that the second applicant be issued with a residence permit for family reasons. in a judgment of 4 july 2005 the florence civil court allowed the applicants’ appeal. in the court’s view, article 30 of legislative decree no. the court found that the right asserted by the second applicant also derived from articles 3 and 10 of directive 2004/38/ec of 29 may 2004 of the european parliament and of the council ..., which recognised the right of the partner of a citizen of the european union (eu) to obtain a residence permit where the existence of a durable relationship was duly attested. secondly, the court of appeal pointed out that the constitutional court had repeatedly held that a relationship based on cohabitation alone, and lacking stability and legal certainty, could not in any circumstances be regarded as a legitimate family based on marriage. the court of appeal found that new zealand law was not compatible with italian public policy on the grounds, firstly, that it regarded persons of the same sex as “cohabiting partners” and, furthermore, that it could be construed as conferring the status of “family members” on them for the purposes of granting them a residence permit. the applicants appealed on points of law. in a judgment of 30 september 2008, the text of which was deposited with the registry on 17 march 2009, the court of cassation dismissed the applicants’ appeal. the court of cassation also considered that articles 8 and 12 of the convention did not require such an interpretation either. in its view, those provisions left a wide margin of appreciation to the states regarding the choice of means of exercising the rights they guaranteed, particularly in the area of immigration control. it observed in that connection that the non-eligibility of unmarried partners for a residence permit for family reasons applied to opposite-sex couples as well as same-sex partners. on 8 may 2010 the applicants married in amsterdam. on 22 august 2014 the second applicant obtained a second five-year residence permit in the netherlands, valid until 22 august 2019.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in mingachevir. the applicant worked as the executive director at the “mingachevir technical rubber” joint stock company, which was an enterprise under the control of the department for privatization and management of state property (“the dpmsp”) of the ministry of the economic development. on 15 march 2005 the applicant was dismissed from his job by an order of the dpmsp of the ministry of the economic development. the applicant lodged an action against the dpmsp, seeking reinstatement in his previous job and payment of his unpaid salaries. on 25 august 2005 the sabayil district court granted the applicant’s claim, ordering his reinstatement in his previous job. the court also ordered the dpmsp to pay the applicant his unpaid salary for the period from 15 march 2005 (date of dismissal) until the date of his reinstatement, without specifying the due amount. on 25 november 2005 the court of appeal upheld the judgment of 25 august 2005, dismissing the dpmsp’s appeal. the judgment became enforceable immediately after its delivery. on 13 december 2005 a writ of execution was issued and sent to the dpmsp. on 12 april 2006 the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment and dismissed the cassation appeal lodged by the state committee for management of state property (“the scmsp”), which was the legal successor of the former dpmsp. it appears from the documents in the case file that in spite of the issuance of the writ of execution and numerous letters of the enforcement officers requesting the execution of the judgment, the scmsp took no action to comply with the judgment in question. following the scmsp’s continuous failure to comply with the judgment, on 14 july 2006 the sabayil district court decided to refer the case to the sabayil district prosecutor’s office for institution of criminal proceedings against the scmsp’s responsible official for non-execution of an enforceable judgment. however, it transpires from the case file that on an unspecified date the prosecuting authorities returned the case to the enforcement officers without taking any formal decision as regards the institution of criminal proceedings. at the time of the latest communication with the parties in june 2011, the judgment delivered in the applicant’s favour remained unenforced.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in dnipro. he was formerly a shareholder in two private companies, o. and l., which were liquidated on the basis of decisions by other shareholders. accordingly, the local authorities struck the companies out of the list of legal entities. the applicant instituted several sets of court proceedings in that regard. the applicant made changes to his claims on a number of occasions. in the course of the proceedings, about twenty of the approximately fifty hearings were adjourned at the request of one or more of the parties, or owing to their failure to appear. between may 2007 and july 2008 courts at three levels of jurisdiction examined the question of whether the case should be considered within the framework of civil or commercial proceedings. eventually, it was decided that the case should be examined under the rules of civil procedure and examination on the merits resumed in august 2008. overall, the proceedings lasted for over seven years and eight months, the final decision being taken by the supreme court on 29 december 2010. that court upheld decisions of the district court of 30 june 2010 and of the dnipro regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) of 16 september 2010 rejecting the applicant’s claims as unsubstantiated. in january 2005 the applicant brought a civil claim with the district court against the local council and a number of private persons, challenging the liquidation of company l. and the authorities’ decisions in that regard. he also sought the restoration of the company as a legal entity, recovery of his shareholding and an order to declare the minutes of the shareholders’ general assembly invalid. on 7 june 2006 the applicant lodged a statement of intent with the court of appeal to appeal against the decision of 2 june 2006. according to the appeal decision, the time-limit in question had started to run from the date of the pronouncement of the contested decision. on 9 october 2006 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in cassation, finding no fault on the part of the lower courts. on 17 april 2006 the court, having examined the case pursuant to the code of administrative justice of 2005, rejected the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated, finding that the contested decision had been lawful. the court further noted that the applicant had made allegations of the unlawfulness of the shareholders’ decision to liquidate the company, which could not be examined in the framework of administrative proceedings. on 20 september 2006 the court of appeal upheld the decision of 17 april 2006. on 28 october 2008 the higher administrative court quashed the decisions of the lower courts and terminated the proceedings. it found that the claim should not have been examined within the framework of administrative proceedings, as it essentially concerned a property dispute.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. at the material time many of them were members of opposition political parties or groups. demonstrations were planned to be held on 20 october and 17 november 2012 in baku. the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations as planned. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. all applicants were arrested during the dispersal operations and were taken to various police stations. the applicants were questioned at the respective police stations. some of the applicants refused to sign the administrative offence reports. they were not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. according to all applicants, they were not given an opportunity to appoint lawyers of their own choosing. state-funded lawyers were invited to represent most of them. 8204/13, 31201/13 and 51930/13 were not represented by a lawyer. 8204/13 and 51930/13 refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend themselves in person. according to the transcripts of the hearings, in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers stated in general terms that the applicants were not guilty or briefly asked the respective courts to adopt a fair decision. with respect to the applicants in application nos. 8204/13, 8468/13, 14226/13, 17569/13, 31201/13, 45211/13 and 51930/13 the respective courts did not question any witnesses. with respect to the applicant in application no. on various dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions were in violation of their rights because the demonstrations in which they had participated or attempted to participate had been peaceful. on various dates the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeals and upheld the decisions of the respective first-instance courts (see appendix).
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in riga. on 18 february 2008, in the course of a first set of criminal proceedings against the applicant for fraud in relation to means of payment, the riga regional court decided to relieve him of criminal liability, and imposed on him a compulsory measure: outpatient medical treatment. on 7 may 2009 the applicant signed an information sheet – drawn up and certified by the riga psychiatric hospital (vsia “rīgas psihiatrijas un narkoloģijas centrs”, hereafter “the psychiatric hospital”) – regarding the rights and obligations of people receiving compulsory outpatient medical treatment. among other things, this information sheet stated that a patient had to visit a doctor once a month and attend a panel meeting of doctors every six months, on the date indicated by the relevant doctor. it also stated that if a patient missed more than three doctor’s appointments in a row, that patient would be reported to the police so that he could be taken to the doctor. the applicant was summoned, but did not attend the hearing, and on 10 april 2013 the decision was sent to him. on 2 july 2013 the court informed him that, following his requests, it had asked the medical experts concerned to report on his medical condition. it relied on a medical report filed on 28 march 2012, which, among other things, noted that he was regularly attending appointments with a doctor, was not showing stable improvement, did not accept that he had health issues and had no remorse regarding the offence he had committed. on 10 may 2013 the riga regional court, relying on section 607(4) of the criminal procedure law (see paragraph 22 below), asked the psychiatric hospital to send a report on the applicant’s state of health, so that the court could decide whether it was necessary to continue the compulsory medical treatment. since 2010 he had visited doctors every two to three months. in 2013 he had voluntarily visited his doctor on 24 january and 15 april, and had missed an appointment on 24 april. on 28 may 2013 the applicant’s doctor at the psychiatric hospital had telephoned him to ask the applicant to comply with the compulsory treatment measure, and had warned him that police assistance would be sought. in line with a doctor’s decision, the applicant was put under observation as an inpatient (novērošana stacionārā). the applicant, accompanied by police officers, was taken to the inpatient section of the hospital, where he displayed dissatisfaction and anger and refused to admit himself to hospital voluntarily. he was informed that he would be examined by a medical commission, as provided for by section 68(3) of the medical treatment law (see paragraph 26 below). on 19 june 2013 the medical commission drew up a report, which stated that the applicant did not display any psychotic symptoms, therefore there was no need for inpatient treatment. in the afternoon he was discharged from hospital. on 19 july 2013 the internal security office of the state police (valsts policijas iekšējās drošības birojs) dismissed a complaint by the applicant that police officers had taken him to the psychiatric hospital unlawfully. the applicant appealed that decision to the office of the prosecutor general, which on 16 august 2013 upheld it, stating that on 28 may 2012 the riga regional court had decided to continue the applicant’s compulsory medical treatment. as the applicant had failed to comply with the measure, representatives of the psychiatric hospital had had grounds to ask for police assistance in executing it.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in kassel. he is a lawyer and was appointed insolvency administrator of the german limited partnership m.k. ms b. was notified of the legal action on 17 july 2002. the statutory time‑limit for those latter claims was 31 december 2004. this request for legal aid was placed in the case file. it was neither examined by a judge nor was notice given to ms b. 10. on 29 august 2005, he sent another letter, to which he received no response. the decision to grant legal aid was served on ms b. on 16 may 2007. on 20 july 2007 the applicant introduced the additional action concerning the said claims. it considered that the exception foreseen by domestic law allowing for the retroactive effect of arranging for notice to be given was not applicable in the instant case. it found that the applicant – who, as a lawyer, must have known that arranging for notice to be given to the defendant of his request for legal aid “shortly after” its submission was required to prevent his claim from becoming time‑barred – had in a reproachable manner contributed to the delay and thus not acted with the necessary diligence required. the regional court observed that the applicant had not asked the regional court to notify immediately the defendant of his request for legal aid, irrespective of its prospects of success, which he could have done without additional costs and without suffering any procedural disadvantages. in relation to the alleged telephone calls in june 2005 and november 2005, it found that, given that the regional court had not responded to his written request of 24 march 2005, the applicant should not have relied on the registry’s alleged statement. the regional court added that, in any event, the claim concerning the reimbursement of approximately eur 1.7 million was ill-founded and thoroughly reasoned this finding. on an unspecified date the applicant requested legal aid in order to lodge an appeal. on 22 june 2009 the frankfurt/main court of appeal dismissed his request, finding that the appeal lacked prospects of success as the regional court had rightly considered the applicant’s claims to be time-barred. it observed that the regional court had arranged for notice to be given to ms b. of the applicant’s request for legal aid at the earliest in 2007 and argued that notice two and a half years after the request’s introduction could not be considered as having taken place “shortly after” that introduction. the court of appeal likewise considered that the subsequent steps taken by the applicant were not sufficient, because he had not asked for the notification to be effected immediately. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the refusal to grant him legal aid violated his right of access to a court and that he had been discriminated against as an impecunious person compared to a litigant with sufficient financial means. nonetheless, it considered that the decision of the court of appeal was in conformity with the case-law of the federal court of justice, according to which a notification could only be “shortly after” the submission of a request for legal aid if the applicant concerned acted with the necessary diligence to effect the immediate notification, and if there were no legitimate interests of the defendant that conflicted with such retroactive effect (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 26 below).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in gdańsk. at the relevant time, the applicant was a member of the polish parliament and a member of the law and justice party. the programme was also broadcast on tvp polonia on two consecutive days. out of modesty i will not mention that a horrible piece about me, full of lies, is on the first page. but let’s go further, to page thirty-five. this is an advertisement for the company j&s s.a....so the paradox is that usually in newspapers they advertise washing powders, cosmetics, beers, or cars, that is, widely available consumer goods (powszechnego nabycia). however, the applicant continued with his statement. the publisher of gazeta wyborcza, brought a civil claim against the applicant for the protection of its rights. it claimed that the applicant’s statements during the television programme on 8 may 2006 had harmed its good name and credibility and asked that the applicant be made to have an apology published in gazeta wyborcza and broadcast on tvp2 and to pay 25,000 polish zlotys (pln) to a charity. during the proceedings the applicant submitted that it had not been his intention to offend the plaintiff. the court further observed that an accusation that a newspaper had published articles ordered by a sponsor was clearly offensive to the publisher. likewise, it was offensive to the publisher to be associated with a company that allegedly conducted morally doubtful activities. had at the relevant time placed advertisements in several newspapers and magazines. it noted that the applicant had prepared in advance to make the statement in question. the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment. the court of appeal considered that the first-instance judgment had not related to the part of the applicant’s statement concerning articles about himself and law and justice, even though he had called them “frenzied attacks”, because it was well known that gazeta wyborcza was critical of law and justice and that was not something which needed to be proved. during the programme the applicant had kept a copy of gazeta wyborcza under his chair, which he had shown to the cameras at the relevant moment. he argued that the court of appeal had wrongly applied the standards of article 10 of the convention and had thus considered his statement to be one of fact rather than a value judgment. ’s advertisement in a completely different, negative light. in the present case, the defendant had not even attempted to prove the accuracy of his statements about the alleged connections of which he had accused the plaintiff.
the applicant, mr rahmi şahin, was born in 1985 and lives in hakkari. as a result, on 11 december 2009, a press conference was held and around 500-550 people, including mayors and local politicians from the dtp (party for a democratic society), a pro-kurdish political party, as well as members of a number of non-governmental organisations, gathered in front of the dtp’s hakkari office. the officers stated that they had arrested the applicant after he had attempted to avoid arrest. there is a bruised lesion with abrasions on the lumbar area at the level of the second vertebra. on the same day, the hakkari magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the investigation file concerning the applicant and two other people. on the same day, the applicant’s legal representative applied to the hakkari magistrate’s court and requested that the decision to restrict his and his client’s access to the investigation file be annulled and his client be released from police custody. on 15 december 2009 the hakkari magistrates’ court dismissed the request. on 16 december 2009 the hakkari assize court upheld the decision of 15 december 2009. he denied any involvement in the demonstration. one of the officers had insulted him and taken him to a hill close to their neighbourhood. an officer had hit him on his right ear with a plastic tube. after the questioning, the public prosecutor ordered a medical examination of the applicant. according to the report, the applicant was sensitive upon palpation in those regions. later that day, the applicant was brought before the hakkari magistrates’ court, where he pleaded innocent and asked to be released. secondly, he noted that the applicant had acted with a group of people who had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and that he had been arrested after he had attempted to escape and had fallen. the public prosecutor observed that although the applicant had sustained minor injuries on his face and body, he had failed to substantiate his claims that he had been beaten and insulted by the police officers. the hakkari public prosecutor considered that the applicant had acted upon the instructions of the pkk and that it was to be expected that such people would make claims of ill-treatment. the government submitted two sets of photographs taken by the security forces with regard to the demonstrations and disturbances of 11 and 12 december 2009 in hakkari. the remaining photographs show people demonstrating in different parts of the city centre. five pictures show police vehicles spraying demonstrators with a water cannon and tear gas.
the applicants were born in 1952, 1947, 1973 and 1980 respectively and live in bratislava. they are co-owners of a residential house located in the bratislava-staré mesto municipality. the house was built in 1929 by their familial predecessors, who during the previous regime donated it to the state under circumstances that would later be accepted as constituting duress. the ownership of the house was restored to the first and second applicants on 10 december 1991 under special legislation on restitution. consequently, each of them acquired a 4/12 share of the ownership of the house. the third and fourth applicants each acquired a 2/12 share of the ownership of the house on 25 january 1995 and 29 march 1999 respectively. at the time the applicants acquired the ownership of the house five flats were inhabited by tenants with regulated rent. under the relevant legislation this meant that (i) the applicants had to accept that their flats were occupied by these tenants, (ii) they could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state, (iii) they could not unilaterally terminate the leases, and (iv) they could not sell the flats other than to the tenants (“the rent-control scheme”). the rent-control scheme applies, or has applied, to the flats in question, as follows: a four-room flat with a surface area of 129 sq. m which had been subject to rent control until january 2006 (“the first flat”); a four-room flat with a surface area of 130 sq. m which had been subject to rent control until september 2008 (“the second flat”); a two-room flat with a surface area of 87 sq. m and two four-room flats measuring 126 sq. m each (“the third, fourth and fifth flats”), to which rent control still applies. the monthly rent chargeable for the flats under the applicable legislation was equivalent to some 10 to 17.5 euros (eur) between 1992 and 1999. after several increases in the regulated rent, in june 2007 the applicants were able to charge some eur 73.5 monthly in respect of the two-room flat and approximately eur 125 monthly in respect of the four‑room flats. according to the government’s calculations the regulated rent reached eur 236 and eur 400 respectively in 2014. the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent. the applicants relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”) and claimed that the monthly market rent for comparable two‑room flats in the area reached around eur 662 and for comparable four‑room flats some eur 1,296 between 2004 and 2007. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicants’ flats in 2010 amounted to eur 561 and eur 772 to eur 797 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in chișinău. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 23 december 2013 the applicant was arrested and charged with embezzlement and organising the attempted murder of two businessmen. since that date he has been detained in prison no. due to overcrowding, detainees had to share beds. he was not provided with bedding or a pillow. there was no sink or running water in the cell. the food was of poor quality and inedible. the squat toilet was not separated from the rest of the cell and gave off a foul odour. there was also a lack of daylight and poor ventilation. the applicant asserted that he had been detained with inmates diagnosed with tuberculosis, hiv/aids and other infectious diseases. as a result of being held in inhuman conditions of detention, he had been ill with mycosis, gastritis and a respiratory infection. he was not provided with any medical assistance and was forbidden from receiving herbal medicine from his wife. on 14 april 2014 the prisons department replied that after examining his allegations, it had not found any violation of domestic law. 130) measured 10 square metres and was designed to accommodate four people. the cell was equipped with a sink and running water. 609 concerning the minimum daily food requirements for detainees. the court refers to the relevant material cited in its previous case‑law concerning the republic of moldova (see, for instance, shishanov v. the republic of moldova, no. in its reports for 2013, 2014 and 2015 on conditions of detention following several visits undertaken in chișinău prison no. 13 be closed or if that was not possible, that the conditions of detention there be urgently improved.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in comrat, republic of moldova. those intermediary companies also had ties with his sons. later, when his company was faced with a court claim from the intermediary companies amounting to 594,067 united states dollars plus penalties, he had acknowledged that debt in court proceedings. he submitted that all national gas importers used the same method of importing gas and that the price of the gas purchased by his company was lower than that on the free national market. in particular, he submitted that the criminal proceedings against him were nothing but a means of influencing the outcome of pending civil proceedings concerning the debt owned by the state-owned company and the intermediary companies. he had a permanent residence, had been cooperating with the investigation since july 2006 and had never attempted to abscond or hinder the investigation. moreover, he relied on his age and on his poor state of health, submitting that he had suffered a heart attack and a stroke. the court] takes into account the nature and seriousness of the offence and the complexity of the case, and considers that at this incipient stage of the investigation there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused could collude with others (his sons, who have not been questioned) in order to take a common position. he reiterated his previous statement to the effect that the criminal proceedings pursued the ulterior motive of influencing the outcome of pending civil proceedings between the company at which he worked and a third company. he further argued that the ground relied upon by the court to order his detention on remand, namely the risk of his colluding with his sons, had not been invoked by the prosecutor. on 11 may 2007 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the court for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention on remand by thirty days. the applicant objected, submitting that there was no reasonable suspicion that he had committed an offence and no reason to believe that he would influence witnesses who had already been questioned. he also emphasised that he had cooperated irreproachably with the investigation before his arrest and that he had a permanent residence. on 22 may 2007 the chişinău court of appeal upheld the decision of 16 may 2007. the applicant objected and asked the court to replace the measure of detention with another measure. the applicant objected on the basis that there were no reasons to believe that he would abscond or influence witnesses. on 26 june 2007 the buiucani district court rejected the prosecutor’s application and accepted the applicant’s request, ordering that he be placed under house arrest for thirty days. the applicant was immediately taken home, where he remained for three days. the applicant appealed, advancing essentially the same arguments as he had done earlier. on 12 march 2008 the comrat district court decided to release the applicant on bail, observing that he had been detained for over ten months and had never breached any of the restrictions imposed on him.
the applicant was born in 1966 and has been in the netherlands since 2003. on 20 august 2003, he was interviewed about his identity, nationality and travel itinerary (eerste gehoor). he also feared problems from the side of hezb-e wahdat for having stopped working for them. he had been discharged after he had stepped on a mine during combat. this interview had not been broadcast in 1989 but only in mid-may 1992, after the mujahideen had seized power in afghanistan. one of the persons taken in custody, mr s., had been interrogated by the applicant himself, who had ill-treated mr s. during interrogation. the applicant had been tortured several times during his incarceration. this guard had told the applicant that he should leave afghanistan forever. during this interview, he declared, inter alia, that in 1981, as a member of the revolutionary guard, he had participated in a purge action – ordered by the pdpa central committee and the ministry of defence – aimed against persons active on behalf of hezb-e islami and jamiat in a specific area and that prisoners of war had been handed over to the former afghan communist security service, khad/wad (khadimat-e atal’at-e dowlati/wezarat-e amniyat-e dowlati). it was correct that hezb-e wahdat had committed many crimes and had shed much blood. he also stated that, at present, he had no proof that he was being searched for but that it was clear to him, having been released upon payment of a bribe, that he could not show himself in afghanistan. in her notice of intention, the minister analysed, on the basis of elaborate argumentation based on various international materials and on the prescribed and so-called “knowing and personal participation” test, the nature of the acts imputed to the applicant in the framework of article 1f of the 1951 refugee convention, as well as his individual responsibility under that convention. having regard to the official report of 29 february 2000 (see paragraph 15 above), the minister further found that the cruel character of the khad had been commonly known. the minister further did not believe that the applicant had been ignorant of the criminal character of hezb-e wahdat when he had started to work for it as this had been widely known at the material time. on 17 june 2005 the applicant submitted written comments (zienswijze) on the minister’s intended decision. the applicant’s appeal against this decision was rejected on 25 january 2007 by the regional court (rechtbank) of the hague, sitting in roermond. it held in respect of the applicant’s activities as a fifteen-year‑old adolescent volunteer for the revolutionary guard that, according to the applicable policy in respect of child soldiers, the minister had not adequately reasoned her decision finding “knowing participation” in respect of this part of the applicant’s account. the applicant, who from his first interview was assisted by a lawyer in these asylum proceedings, could have filed a further appeal with the administrative jurisdiction division (afdeling bestuursrechtspraak) of the council of state (raad van state), but did not do so. consequently, the ruling of 25 january 2007 became final when the four week time-limit for filing an appeal with the administrative jurisdiction division expired. the applicant challenged this decision in administrative law proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1962 and is detained in daugavpils prison. criminal proceedings were initiated in that connection, throughout which the applicant and his co-defendant pleaded their innocence. on 27 september 2000 the applicant and his co-defendant were found guilty of the charges and were sentenced to nine and twelve years’ imprisonment respectively by the riga regional court. as a result, criminal proceedings (case no. 50207598) were initiated against the police officers for abuse of official power. being aware of that, the government undertake to adopt all necessary measures in order to avoid similar infringements in future, as well as to provide an effective remedy. the court reiterates that in certain circumstances it may be appropriate to strike an application out of the list under article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention on the basis of a unilateral declaration by the respondent government even though the applicant wishes the examination of the case to be continued. 53507/99, § 24, 18 july 2006; kalanyos and others v. romania, no. 39559/02, § 23, 9 october 2007; feldhaus v. germany (dec.) ( 10583/02, 13 may 2008; and kapitonovs v. latvia (dec.) ( as to the ill-treatment to which the applicant was allegedly subjected in police custody and the effectiveness of the investigations carried out, although the court has not to date found a violation of article 3 by the latvian police in that specific context, it nevertheless points to its clear and very extensive case-law in this regard (see, among many other authorities, selmouni v. france [gc], no. 36378/97, §§ 23-32, echr 2003‑iii; and staroszczyk v. poland, no. the same applies to the complaint under article 2 of protocol no. on the latter point the court found as follows:“39. on 17 november 2010 a prosecutor attached to the riga regional court dismissed the applicant’s request, finding that none of the grounds for the reopening of criminal proceedings set out in section 655(2) of the criminal procedure law applied. 547/02) contains the government’s unilateral declaration, the conclusions of which are applicable only to the circumstances and the events examined within the scope of that case. in a final decision of 20 december 2010 a higher-ranking prosecutor upheld the decision of 17 november 2010. the prosecutor did not establish the existence of any such conditions during the examination of your application, which is why i regard as reasonable her decision to refuse the reopening of the criminal proceedings in cases nos. 06725198 and 50207598 on the basis of newly disclosed circumstances. the criminal procedure law does not make any provision for these circumstances to be expanded.
the applicant was born in 1982 and currently lives in budapest. the applicant crossed the hungarian border from serbia clandestinely in the evening of 24 june 2014. he stated that he had been forced to leave iran and, with the help of a human trafficker, he had entered hungary without documents, because he had had no other way of doing so. at the hearing, he again applied for recognition as a refugee. in view of his request, on 25 june 2014 the csongrád county police department suspended the alien administration procedure. on the same day the office of immigration and nationality commenced asylum proceedings. lxxx of 2007 on asylum (the “asylum act”). in its decision the asylum authority observed that the applicant’s identity and nationality had not been clarified. according to section 31/a (6) of the asylum act, the maximum length of asylum detention when ordered by the asylum authority is 72 hours. on the basis of section 31/c (3) of the asylum act and section 36/c (1) of the relevant government decree (see in paragraph 22 below), the applicant could have submitted an objection to the ordering of his asylum detention. the asylum authority pointed out in its application that iranian asylum seekers tended to frustrate the procedure and leave for unknown places. the hearing lasted from 9.40 to 9.45 a.m. in its ensuing decision the court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and extended the asylum detention by a maximum of 60 days. it noted that the applicant’s identity was unclear, that he had arrived in hungary unlawfully, and that he had no connections in the country or any means to subsist on. on 8 and 11 july 2014 the applicant applied to the asylum authority to be released from detention or transferred to an open facility. in its reply, the asylum authority informed the applicant that an asylum hearing would be held in a few days: he would have the opportunity to prove his citizenship there. on 11 august 2014 the asylum authority again sought extension of the asylum detention by another maximum of 60 days, relying on section 31/a (1) a) and c) of the asylum act. in its application, the asylum authority did not give any detailed explanation as to why no other, less stringent measures could be applied in the case. in her submission of the same day to the debrecen district court, the lawyer asked the court to hear the applicant and not to extend the asylum detention. on 13 august 2014 the court appointed another legal representative for the applicant. on 31 october 2014 the applicant was recognised as a refugee.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in leonding. on 10 july 2001 the applicant applied to the regional governor (landeshauptmann) of upper austria (oberösterreich) for the granting of a licence to run a pharmacy in leonding. on 25 september 2002 the governor dismissed the application. on 14 june 2002 the applicant lodged an appeal with the federal minister for health and women (bundesministerin für gesundheit und frauen, “the minister”). on 14 june 2004 he filed a complaint with the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) against the minister’s failure to give a decision (säumnisbeschwerde). on 30 september 2004 the administrative court set a time-limit of 31 march 2005 for the minister to make a decision. on 24 march 2005 the minister dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 11 may 2005 the applicant filed a complaint with the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) against that decision. on 12 october 2005 the constitutional court refused to deal with the complaint and, upon the applicant’s request, referred the case to the administrative court. already on 22 april 2005 the applicant lodged a request for re‑opening of the proceedings with the minister, who allowed the request on 10 may 2005. thereupon, a number of owners of other pharmacies in the area, who had been parties to the administrative proceedings, lodged a complaint with the administrative court challenging the minister’s decision. while the complaints against the minister’s decision of 24 march 2005 and concerning the re-opening decision of 10 may 2005 were still pending before the administrative court, the minister granted the applicant a licence to run a pharmacy on 5 december 2005. the applicant challenged parts of the minister’s decision before the constitutional court, which dismissed his complaint on 27 february 2007. a request to transfer his complaint to the administrative court was dismissed. on 16 july 2009 the administrative court, dealing with the complaints of the first and the second sets of proceedings at the same time, decided that neither of the minister’s decisions of 24 march and 10 may 2005 had been lawful, and quashed them. as a consequence, the administrative court also had to quash the minister’s decision of 5 december 2005. the proceedings were thus referred back to the minister. on 19 march 2010 the minister granted the applicant’s appeal against the decision of the regional governor of upper austria of 25 september 2002. the applicant was granted a licence to establish and run a new public pharmacy in leonding. the complaint against that decision raised by the owners of an existing pharmacy was dismissed by the administrative court on 28 may 2013 and the applicant was awarded compensation for costs in the amount of 1,106.40 euros (eur).
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in zvolen. in 1929 the applicant’s grandfather built a house in piešťany. his predecessors retained ownership under the communist regime. ownership was transferred to the applicant from his mother on 21 december 1998. m each in size, while the other two measure 123 sq. at the time the application was lodged, the flats were inhabited by tenants with a regulated rent. their or their predecessors’ right to use the flats had been established by decisions taken by the municipal authorities between 1953 and 1986. after 1 january 1992 their right of use had been transformed into tenancies with regulated rent for an indefinite period. under the relevant legislation, the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by those tenants and that he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state (“the rent-control scheme”). the applicant had no possibility of unilaterally terminating the leases on his flats. under the applicable legislation, the maximum monthly rent chargeable for the flats in 1999 was the equivalent of some 13 to 33 euros (eur). after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2004 the applicant was able to charge eur 115 monthly in respect of each of the smaller flats and eur 124 monthly in respect of the larger ones. the applicant contended that he, in fact, received from the tenants less than the maximum amount of rent set by the applicable legislation. to this end he led several property disputes with them and the local municipality. the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent. the applicant relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”) and claimed that the monthly market rent for similar flats reached eur 600 to 800 between 2004 and 2007. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicant’s flats in 2010 amounted to eur 265.50 and eur 325 respectively. in submissions made on 16 june 2014 the applicant informed the court that the rent control in respect of his four flats had been terminated. the first flat had been subject to rent control until may 2007, the second and third flats until august 2007, and the fourth flat until april 2008.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in bratislava. the applicant’s parents built a house in bratislava-ružinov in 1937. in the second half of the 1950s they were compelled to donate the house to the state. on 31 july 1992 it was restored to the applicant’s mother (a three-quarters share) and the applicant (a one-quarter share) under the special legislation on restitution. since 30 september 1996 the applicant has been its sole owner. at the time of its restitution to the applicant and his mother, the house comprised nine flats subject to rent control. under the relevant legislation (i) the applicant had to accept that his flats were occupied by the tenants, (ii) he could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state, (iii) he could not unilaterally terminate the leases, and (iv) he could not sell the flats to anyone other than the tenants (“the rent-control scheme”). in 1996 and 2000 two of the bigger flats became vacant, as a result of which the rent‑control scheme ceased to apply to them. the rent control ceased to apply in respect of another two 70 sq. m flats in january 2008 and november 2012 respectively. currently, five flats are under the rent control regime. under the applicable legislation, between 1992 and 1999 the maximum permissible monthly rent chargeable for the flats was equivalent of some 3 to 8 euros (eur). after several increases in the regulated rent, in 2007 the applicant could charge some eur 35 for the smaller flat and eur 65 for each of the larger ones. the parties provided differing figures as to the market rent:the applicant relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“narea”) and claimed that in 2007 the monthly market rent for similar flats with a surface area of 70 sq. m reached eur 553 and for flats measuring 30 sq. the government submitted an expert valuation according to which the monthly market rent for the applicant’s flats in 2010 amounted to eur 330 and eur 160.50 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in chișinău. at the time of the events, he was a bank armoured vehicle driver. as a result of the sudden stop a bus passenger, c., fell from her seat and suffered moderately severe injuries. on 1 september 2005 a criminal investigation was initiated. according to the applicant, he had completed the manoeuvre around the stationary bus and taken the lane in front of it after making sure the bus was still stationary. on 21 october 2005 the applicant was charged with violating traffic rules, resulting in c.’s injuries. during the course of the proceedings the botanica district court heard the same witnesses as the prosecutor. the court considered that none of them had seen any of the events themselves and that their impression that the applicant was guilty was because the bus driver blamed him. the court noted that charges had been brought against the applicant based on statements by d. made shortly after the criminal proceedings against him had been discontinued, without re-interviewing the other witnesses. the court also noted that the site investigation report and the sketch map had not been drawn up immediately after the incident, that the police had gone to the scene several hours later and had been joined only by d., that the applicant’s objections had not been reflected in the documents, and that the sketch map did not correspond to the statements given by all the witnesses shortly after the incident. in a judgment of 27 march 2006 the botanica district court acquitted the applicant for the reasons given above. it concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant’s actions had obliged d. to suddenly stop the bus. on 23 may 2006 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. the prosecutor appealed on points of law. on 17 october 2006 the supreme court of justice held a hearing at which the applicant, his representative and the prosecutor were present. the court analysed the witness testimony and the site investigation report and the sketch map, providing reasons why the evidence was unreliable. the court upheld the prosecutor’s appeal on points of law and ordered a rehearing of the case. the court referred to a list of evidence, including the disputed statements of c., d. and the two witnesses, without providing any additional reasons. on 13 february 2008 the supreme court of justice examined the applicant’s appeal in the absence of the parties and declared it inadmissible. the applicant was served with this judgment on 24 may 2008.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in budaörs. he complained against the measure, arguing that he had not been present at his permanent address as he worked as a truck driver abroad. he also stated that he had steady employment and a permanent address, that the alleged offence of which he was suspected was of a minor nature, that he had voluntarily appeared before the investigation authorities, and that he had given a detailed account of events. referring to the arrest warrant, the court also held that there were grounds to believe that the applicant would abscond, obstruct the investigations or commit further offences. it further stated, without any additional reasoning, that less restrictive measures could not be applied. he further submitted that he had not been informed of any evidence justifying his detention on remand. the first-instance decision was upheld on appeal, without further reasoning, by the tatabánya high court on 14 june 2012. on 3 july 2012, on the application of the public prosecutor’s office, the applicant’s detention was extended until 9 september 2012 by the district court. he reiterated that he had no criminal record, gave financial assistance to his elderly parents and his brother, who had down syndrome and with whom he also shared a house, had a permanent job and that his residence had not changed for forty years. he also submitted that he had voluntarily cooperated with the police giving a detailed account of the events and handling over documentary evidence in his possession. he further pointed out that the evidence obtained by the police supported his version of the events, thus there were no grounds to believe that he would have obstructed the investigations. on 25 june 2015 the tatabánya district court acquitted the applicant. the applicant was detained in székesfehérvár prison from 9 june to 7 september 2012. during that time he was held in a cell measuring 41.09 sq. on 31 july 2012 there were eight inmates (5.1 sq. m per person); between 10 and 11 june and 3 and 6 july 2012 there were ten inmates (4.1 sq. m per person); between 12 and 21 june, 20 and 30 july and 11 and 25 august 2012 there were eleven inmates (3.7 sq. during the summer, the temperature in the prison cell rose to 30˚c during the day time, occasionally reaching 35˚c. the applicant could only leave the cell for one hour of outdoor exercise every day. inmates were able to take a shower once a week for about five to ten minutes.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kłomnice. the only panacea, or universal cure, for such a person is to recognise his intentions and take up a bloodless fight using arguments. at the same time he declared that he would continue doing his job, that is, condemning farmers to breeding nice little birds in order to collect their eggs. his boss considered the quail business very important, because it would eliminate the need for viagra. there has not been a sideshow like it in the radomsko district for a long time. so the time is approaching when pilgrimages of men from all over poland, and maybe even the european union, will come to radomsko to taste quail eggs and later begin procreating. i wonder who has gone mad in the district, and why mad ideas, supported by even madder arguments, can be accepted by our officials. every dull boss can be convinced by any rubbish. the applicant went on to describe in general terms a local economic development programme, which had been presented to him by a businessman. the private prosecutors sought an order requiring the applicant to publish an apology in the weekly newspaper. the radomsko district court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction in the case, and transmitted the private bill of indictment to the piotrków trybunalski district court. the mayor of the radomsko district, and his officials. ’s initiative to develop quail farming in order to tackle the impoverishment of the local population. in june 2004 a journalist at the same newspaper had published a detailed article on the same subject. it found that the article in issue had been part of a campaign carried out by the newspaper against the private prosecutors. the court established that there was no doubt that the words “numbskull”, “dim‑witted official” and “poser” had referred to k.h., it is difficult not to agree with the position that the word “numbskull” (“palant”) in the analysed context, although its literal meaning is legally irrelevant, fulfils all the criteria of insult within the meaning of article 216 of the criminal code. dull” meaning not sharp, unintelligent, intellectually retarded. however, the court found no grounds to hold that the impugned words had the effect of lowering the private prosecutors in public esteem, or undermining the public confidence necessary for the discharge of their duties as local government officials. the quoted statements were rather harmful to the private prosecutors’ perception of their dignity, and such, in the court’s view, was the defendant’s intention.
in 1996 the applicant and his wife started a family business which involved, among other things, the replication of digital data and the sale of blank data storage devices. this deed has been completed in duplicate and read out. ...” these two [individuals] organised an entire underground production [facility] in their office. declared the property seized from the applicant and his wife as physical evidence to be stored by the police pending the investigation of the case. on 21 november 2002 the shevchenkivsky district court of kyiv (hereinafter “the district court”) issued search warrants in respect of the applicant’s and his wife’s flats, noting that they were suspected of breaching criminal legislation concerning copyright protection. it appears from the case file that no items were seized. they noted, in particular, that proceedings could only be terminated on such grounds in cases in which a particular person had been indicted. there was insufficient evidence that he had unlawfully replicated copyrighted materials or distributed counterfeit products. in march 2006 the criminal proceedings were still pending. no investigative measures concerning the applicant had been ordered. on an unspecified date the applicant and his wife instituted defamation proceedings against the police authorities for publishing an inaccurate crime report on their website (see paragraph 11 above), seeking the retraction of the information contained therein. in april 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint against the investigative department of the kyiv police with the district court. in court the applicant reformulated his claims. it rejected them, finding that the applicant lacked standing to bring the proceedings. in particular, the disputed criminal case had been instituted “into the matter” rather than “against the applicant” (see paragraph 46 below quoting article 98 of the code of criminal procedure), who had neither been a formal suspect nor a defendant in the proceedings at issue. as he had been denied formal status as a suspect, he could not defend himself properly. on 13 july 2004 the supreme court of ukraine quashed the previous decisions and remitted the case to the lower courts for fresh consideration. on 24 december 2004 the court of appeal quashed the district court’s decision and remitted the criminal case concerning the suspected breach of copyright to it for further investigation. by assessing the lawfulness of the investigative actions, the district court had in fact touched upon the admissibility of evidence, a matter which could only be examined in the course of a criminal trial. the applicant appealed on points of law, alleging in particular that the court of appeal had breached procedural rules in admitting the appeal of the prosecutor’s office.
mrs marinova was born in 1972 and lives in tervel. in february 2006 she complained to the child protection agency that the school teacher of her son, then aged fourteen, had on several occasions ill-treated and humiliated him. mrs marinova argued that this had amounted to harassment, and said that her son had become demotivated. having examined the findings of the child protection agency and the prosecuting authorities in relation to mrs marinova’s complaints, the court concluded that her allegations, the first of which had become known to the school’s headmaster and a pedagogical counsellor in the school, had been false and therefore defamatory. such complaints could, in some cases, be seen as false accusation contrary to article 286 of the code (see paragraph 54 below). mrs marinova also emphasised that she had not made her allegations publicly. it found that mrs marinova’s allegations that the teacher had ill-treated her son were not supported by the findings of the child protection agency or her son’s or the headmaster’s testimony, and held that information was “disseminated” within the meaning of article 147 § 1 of the criminal code even if only one person had become privy to it. one of them recorded that mr zlatanov had failed to obey a stop sign. mr zlatanov’s allegations triggered an internal inquiry which exonerated the officer of any wrongdoing. in a judgment of 6 march 2009, the kavarna district court found mr zlatanov guilty of defaming a public official, contrary to articles 147 and 148 §§ 1 (3) and 2 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 49 and 50 below). the court replaced his criminal liability with an administrative fine of bgn 500 (eur 256). in a final judgment of 20 november 2009, the dobrich regional court upheld the lower court’s judgment. he then called the police and informed the officer on duty of the incident. it partly allowed the officer’s claim for damages, ordering mr findulov to pay him bgn 3,000 (eur 1,534). it entirely agreed with the reasons given by that court, adding that mr findulov had been fully aware that his allegations against the officer were false but had nevertheless chosen to defame him. on 14 november 2009 tensions escalated and mr and mrs dinchevi called the police, complaining that they had been assaulted by the neighbours. two officers came and warned one of the neighbours not to harass the applicants. the reprimand was to be executed by announcing the conviction and sentence on the local radio station. in a final judgment of 7 march 2013 (реш. the statements in their complaints had been an expression of their disapproval of the way in which the officers had carried out their duties, and an exercise of their constitutional rights to make complaints to the authorities, express their opinion, and defend their rights.
the applicants were born in 1978, 1980 and 2007 respectively. they fled armenia on account of fears of persecution related to the first applicant’s activity as a journalist and his political activism. after arriving in france on 4 october 2009 they filed applications for asylum, which were rejected by the french office for the protection of refugees and stateless persons (office français de protection des réfugiés et apatrides – ofpra), on 21 december 2009, then by the national asylum court (cour nationale du droit d’asile – cnda), on 28 february 2011. their subsequent requests for re-examination were also rejected. on 3 may 2011 the prefect of loiret issued orders rejecting the applicants’ requests for leave to remain and obliging them to leave french territory. on 18 october 2011 the orleans administrative court, on an appeal from the applicants, refused to overturn those orders. the second and third applicants were arrested the next day at the reception centre for asylum seekers (centre d’accueil des demandeurs d’asile – cada) at chaingy, where the family had been living. that decision was upheld on 24 february 2012 by the president of the toulouse court of appeal, who found in particular as follows:“... the administrative detention centre of cornebarrieu, where the child is held, has been authorised to receive families and contains all the necessary facilities to ensure the comfort of a family with children. thus the whole family is together and they have, in an autonomous area and separated from the rest of the detainees, rooms for them alone and for their exclusive use. in addition, there is a playground on the site, like those to be found in town squares. lastly, a doctor and a nurse are available every day in the toulouse administrative detention centre and mr and mrs a.b. on 24 february 2012 the applicants submitted to the court, under rule 39 of the rules of court, a request for the suspension of the detention orders concerning them. on 29 february 2012 the court decided not to indicate the requested interim measure. however, they did not leave france, on account of the third applicant’s state of health. on 13 july 2012 the first applicant was granted leave to remain as the parent of a sick child. its judgments contained the same wording for each spouse:“4. as regards aliens who are the parents of minor children and who do not have sufficient guarantees of compliance, such aliens being provided for by article l. 562-1 of the said code, and in accordance with the aims of article 17 of directive 2008/115/ec, recourse to placement in detention can only constitute an exceptional measure in cases where the alien does not have a stable place of abode at the time when the prefectoral authority takes the necessary measures to prepare for the removal. the measure of curfew with electronic tagging is decided by the administrative authority for a period of five days. it can be seen from the evidence in the file that on the date of the decision appealed against, mr [a.b.], in deciding on their placement in detention the prefect of loiret merely stated that mr [a.b.]
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in gelgaudiškis, šakiai region. had unlawfully carried a mobile phone into detention. most of the information on that phone, including any text messages sent by v.ž., “give me their number, i’ll arrange for us to give it later. your mother was questioned today and almost got arrested, don’t you understand? “mother doesn’t give anything, i’m telling you the customs office is watching everything.” was detained, to bring him food and clean clothes. at that time the applicant was sixty-nine years old. on 4 march 2010 the applicant was served with the official notice that she was a suspect (pranešimas apie įtarimą). ’s apartment with the purpose of distribution, and subsequently distributed them, thereby committing the act proscribed in article 260 § 1 of the criminal code. she denied having committed any crimes and refused to answer any further questions. at some point during the day the applicant started feeling weak, and felt a headache and a pain in her chest. an ambulance was called to the police station and the applicant was given first aid. on the same day the applicant’s lawyer submitted a request to the šakiai district prosecutor to release the applicant from provisional arrest. on 30 september 2010 the šakiai district prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation against the applicant on the grounds of insufficient evidence that she had committed the crime outlined in article 260 § 1 of the criminal code. the šakiai police continued the pre-trial investigation concerning the applicant’s son v.ž. on 4 november 2011 the šakiai district court convicted v.ž. the applicant noted that the investigation against her son had been instituted on 17 february 2010, and there had been no indication from that day until her arrest that the police suspected that she had committed any crimes or attempted to interfere with the investigation ‑ on the contrary, she had voluntarily come to the police station to see her son. the court also noted that the applicant had not appealed against the district prosecutor’s decision of 5 march 2010 to refuse her release (see paragraph 17 above), which meant that the decision to arrest her had not been declared unlawful. the court did not address the applicant’s complaints concerning the conditions of her detention.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sevojno. on 30 may 2001 the užice department of the central employment office (republicki zavod za tržiste rada – nacionalna služba za zapošljavanje – organizaciona jedinica užice, hereinafter “the employment office”) granted unemployment benefits to the applicant until he found a new job or became eligible for retirement (novčana naknada do zaposlenja ili ispunjavanja uslova za starosnu penziju). on 1 june 2001 the law on changes and amendments to the law on employment and rights of unemployed persons (“the 2001 law”) came into force. the law provided for different coefficients and a different methodology for calculating such benefits. it also provided, in article 20, that any administrative proceedings which had not been concluded by the date on which the new law came into force were to be finalised in accordance with the new law (article 17 of the 2001 law provided that article 20 was applicable as of 1 september 2001). the applicant was receiving the full amount of the benefits he was entitled to until october 2001. from that date the benefits were decreased to 70-80% of the amount he had initially been awarded, although the decision of 30 may 2001 had not been amended or superseded by a new decision. on 26 december 2007 the municipal court rejected the applicant’s claim. the applicant’s lawyer brought separate claims on behalf of numerous individuals (hereinafter “the plaintiffs”), seeking outstanding benefits. on 22 november 2007 the same municipal court ruled in favour of m.ð., one of the plaintiffs, whose claim was factually and legally identical to that of the applicant (m.ð. ’s administrative decision had also been delivered on 30 may 2001). that judgment became final on 19 december 2007. on 26 february 2008 and 19 may 2008 the arilje municipal court delivered two judgments in which it ruled against plaintiffs whose claims were identical to the applicant’s. the užice district court upheld those two judgments on 20 march 2008 and 15 september 2008 respectively. a number of plaintiffs who were in an identical situation to that of the applicant lodged constitutional appeals with the constitutional court of serbia. between 4 november 2010 and 1 march 2012 the constitutional court adopted a number of decisions in those cases, finding a violation of the right to a fair trial. it quashed the civil judgments and ordered the reopening of the civil proceedings. acting upon the decisions of the constitutional court, the kragujevac court of appeal (which became the competent court of second instance for the applicant’s case after a reorganisation of courts in serbia in 2010, instead of the užice district court) and the belgrade court of appeal reopened proceedings in cases in which the constitutional court had made such an order and ruled in favour of the plaintiffs. the plan contained a series of measures to be taken at various levels of jurisdiction, and, inter alia, included the following: (i) the adoption of guiding legal opinions based on the principles developed in the case-law of the european court of human rights; (ii) the dissemination of such opinions; (iii) regular information sharing between the courts; (iv) an increased number of thematic discussions and training programmes; (v) the adoption of specific action plans by the courts at various levels; and (vi) the development of various it tools and related intranet databases.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in veshenskaya, a village in the rostov region. as a result, the applicant suffered severe head and spinal injuries. the applicant was able to walk but was suffering from memory loss, was disoriented and did not understand what had just happened. at 12.20 a.m. on 10 july 2002, m. arrived at the hospital in p.’s father’s car and took samples of the applicant’s blood. however, the officer on duty refused to accept it, referring to the earlier report by a. stating that the applicant had fallen down the stairs. the police did not mention the windscreen in their report. the applicant alleged that the investigator in charge of the case, m., had been a schoolmate and close friend of p. he also alleged that the date the decision was taken to open an investigation was incorrect, as the case had in fact been opened on 18 july 2002. on 29 july 2002 the investigator examined the scene of the accident. on 31 july 2002 the investigator conducted a reconstruction of the accident, in the presence of p. neither the applicant nor his parents were notified or participated. on 2 august 2002 the investigator questioned p.’s father who explained, among other things, that the dent on the bonnet of the car was not related to the accident involving the applicant. on 24 march 2003 the investigator questioned the deputy head of sholokhovskiy police station, ch., on 20 march 2003 the applicant was examined by medical experts. according to him, he only had five-and-a-half hours to study the material, which consisted of four files, each three hundred pages long. a handwritten inscription he had written indicating that he had not read all the material allegedly disappeared from the case file. the applicant objected, claiming that one was necessary. as to the civil claim lodged by the applicant within the criminal proceedings, the court awarded him 50,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. p. had been able to avoid collision by manoeuvring or stopping his car, but for whatever reason he had not done so. he had applied the brakes a while after the collision. where damage was caused in the context of an economic activity, it should be compensated in the ordinary way, by the immediate wrongdoer. but the investigator did not find any grounds on which to prosecute him.
the applicants were born in 1955 and live in poreč. on 5 february 2009 the applicants and their company, m.n., and their company’s debt of hrk 180,000 to company e. in order to secure the overall loan, the applicants used their house as collateral, allowing m.g. on 17 november 2009 the poreč municipal court granted that request and issued an enforcement order against the applicants. the applicants did not appeal and the enforcement order became final on 17 december 2009. both applicants were properly summoned, but only the first applicant appeared. the first applicant did not comply with his undertaking. the applicants made no objections to the valuation. on 7 october 2010 another set of enforcement proceedings against the applicants was joined to the proceedings at issue. on 25 january 2011 a first public auction was held. however, there were no interested buyers. the applicants, though properly summoned, did not appear. a further set of enforcement proceedings against the applicants was joined to the proceedings at issue on 13 may 2011. since the applicants had not lodged an appeal, the enforcement order had become final on 31 march 2011. for hrk 821,040 (approximately 109,000 euros). on 2 april 2012 the poreč municipal court granted m.g. on 23 april 2012 the applicants lodged an appeal against that decision, arguing that the judicial sale had been disproportionate since the true value of their house had been about 700,000 euros (eur). from having the electricity and water cut off and from making alterations to the house, ordering hep to reconnect the electricity, and authorising them to keep the house until the enforcement proceedings were complete. on 20 december 2013 the poreč municipal court decided to conclude the enforcement proceedings for the payment of monetary debts. on 20 january 2014 the pula county court dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the decision of 17 september 2013 (see paragraph 32 above), finding that the municipal court had acted in accordance with the law, namely the provisions of the enforcement act.
the applicant organisation, sia akka/laa (sia “autortiesību un komunicēšanās konsultāciju aģentūra/latvijas autoru apvienība” –copyright and communication consulting agency ltd./latvian authors association) is a non-profit organisation founded in riga by a separate non‑profit organisation, the latvian authors association, whose members are various latvian artists. in 2002 the applicant organisation instituted civil proceedings against several broadcasters operating in latvia. the applicant organisation further asked that the court award compensation for unauthorised use of musical works. by relying on the authors’ exclusive rights to control the use of their musical works, the applicant organisation asked the court to apply an injunction precluding the defendant from using the authors’ works before a valid licence agreement between the parties had come into effect. on 16 january 2003 the first-instance court partly upheld the claim and fully upheld the counterclaim. furthermore, the first-instance court ordered the applicant organisation to conclude a licence agreement with the defendant for the next three-year period with a royalty rate set at 2% of the defendant’s monthly net turnover (ikmēneša neto apgrozījums). lastly, by relying on the preamble of the wipo copyright treaty and articles 11 and 11bis of the berne convention (see paragraph 37 below), the first-instance court dismissed the applicant organisation’s application to have an injunction granted to prohibit the defendant from broadcasting works of the rightsholders represented by the applicant organisation. on 23 october 2003 the civil cases chamber of the supreme court, acting as an appellate court, upheld the part of the first-instance judgment concerning the compensation for copyright infringement and the injunction. the appellate court noted that it was partly due to the applicant organisation’s inconsistent negotiating that a licence agreement could not be concluded. the appellate court accordingly recognised that the licence agreement was to be considered concluded in the wording as agreed by the parties on 7 october 2003. on the question of remuneration, the appellate court established that in the negotiation process the applicant organisation had changed the royalty rate from 6% to 4% and then to 3.5%, whereas the defendant had insisted on 1.6% of the income from which royalties should be calculated. the appellate court took note of the characteristics of the defendant’s activities and concluded that an equitable remuneration would be 2% of the income from which, as agreed by the parties, the royalties should be calculated. on 11 february 2004, following an appeal on points of law, the senate of the supreme court upheld the appellate court’s findings that after the expiry of the earlier licence agreement on 31 december 1998 the de facto contractual relationship between the parties had continued mainly owing to the fact that the applicant organisation had failed to reach an agreement with the defendant on the terms of the licence agreement. in their claim against latvijas radio, a state-owned limited liability company, the applicant organisation asked the riga regional court, acting as a first-instance court, to find that by broadcasting the rightsholders’ musical works without a valid licence agreement between 1 january 2000 and 31 december 2001, the defendant had violated economic interests of the authors represented by the applicant organisation. by lodging a counterclaim the defendant in essence asked the court to recognise that in the disputed period the parties had a de facto contractual relationship. on 2 april 2003 the riga regional court dismissed the applicant organisation’s claim and upheld the counterclaim. it considered that it would be fruitless to issue an injunction prohibiting the defendant from broadcasting the works. as a result, over a prolonged period of time the authors’ rights had been unprotected. as the parties had not asked the court to decide on the exact terms and conditions of a licence agreement, the appellate court decided to impose on the parties a general obligation to conclude a licence agreement by 1 march 2004. on 17 march 2004 the senate partly upheld the lower court’s judgment with similar reasoning as in the first set of proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in sofia. on 29 march 2006 the kazanlak district court convicted the applicant of wilfully using a forged document and falsely accusing another person of criminal conduct, and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. the court ordered that the applicant be detained pending any appeal against his conviction and sentence. after his detention, the applicant appealed against his conviction and sentence to the stara zagora regional court. in his appeal, he included the following statement:“the [judge-rapporteur] is a pupil of mine and is seeking revenge, using his functional immunity. when i asked him which subject i had taught him, the reply was that it had been ‘electrical materials’ and that i had given him an average grade ... i believe that there exist grounds for the recusal of the judge-rapporteur ... i have personal relations with [him]. my request was however turned down and my fate was left in the hands of the court.” on 16 may 2007 the stara zagora regional court quashed the lower court’s judgment and remitted the case for re-examination, citing a number of breaches of the rules of procedure. he did not have any personal bias against the applicant, and had never been asked to recuse himself from the case. the court did not accept the applicant’s argument that he had not acted with intent. in his brief, he submitted that his first statement had been read out of context; that the lower court had not taken due account of his perturbed emotional state, resulting from his having to spend time in custody pursuant to an unlawful conviction and sentence; that his statements had only been addressed to the appellate court and not intended for publication; and that he had not acted wilfully or recklessly. in an additional brief, the applicant’s counsel submitted, inter alia, that the lower court had failed to explain why it had found that the applicant’s statements had been “disseminated”, given that the appellate judges to whom they had been addressed had been under the duty not to disclose professional secrets and that no third parties had access to the file containing the statements. moreover, the statements were truthful – the judge had been a pupil of the applicant, and his bias against the applicant had been acknowledged in the appellate judgment. he had made the statements while conducting his defence in a criminal case against him, and it was wrong to read them out of context. lastly, his sentence, although set at the statutory minimum, was still unduly harsh. in a final judgment of 17 march 2008, the stara zagora regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction in relation to the first statement (see paragraph 7 above), but acquitted him with respect to the second statement (see paragraph 9 above), and accordingly reduced the fine to bgn 2,500 (eur 1,278). it held that the applicant had “disseminated” the first statement by including it in his appeal. the fact that he had been in a fragile emotional state when doing so was irrelevant. without attempting to verify whether the first statement had a factual basis, the court found that it had amounted to an allegation that the judge was vindictive and had used his office to seek revenge, had been disparaging for the judge in his professional capacity, and had impinged on his office. there was nothing discrediting in the fact that the judge had been a pupil of the applicant, and the applicant’s view that the judge should have therefore recused himself was a personal opinion, which could not give rise to criminal liability because it could not be proved.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in jonava. submitted the following report to his superior:“on 23 april 2008 i was on duty in jonava together with officer j.d. the report on the results of that examination, issued in june 2008, found a contusion on the applicant’s abdomen and indicated that it could have been caused by one blow from a hard blunt object (vienu trauminiu poveikiu). took him by the other, and we both handcuffed him. then the taller officer, who was behind me, took me outside while repeatedly twisting and pulling up my arms ... in about five minutes another officer in a uniform arrived, took my car keys, and tried to open the boot of my car ... the officers examined my car ... then the shorter and the taller officers put me into their car, still twisting my arms. at the police station i was searched and given an alcohol test ...[w]hen the officers arrived at my workplace they did not identify themselves; i knew they were police officers only from their uniforms. he insisted that the officers had not asked him to identify himself, and that he had answered all their questions. after examining the car i didn’t find anything suspicious. when i was examining the car, [the applicant] was nearby, i don’t remember if he was saying or doing anything. insisted that he had been present:“i was at the scene of the incident, i was with a dog, i saw [the applicant’s] arrest and i helped two police officers to twist [the applicant’s] arms (padėjau užlaužti rankas) ...i went to the guard booth with the officers. on 30 september 2008 the prosecutor arranged a confrontation between the applicant and police officer v.b. accordingly, the applicant complained that the pre-trial investigation had not been thorough and had not objectively established the circumstances of his arrest and injury. the applicant] punched me inside the premises, that is in the guard booth. in september 2009, at the prosecutor’s request, a court medical expert carried out an additional assessment of the applicant’s medical file. he also stated that at the time of his arrival the handler with a dog had been present at the scene and that it would have been impossible for the applicant not to see them. nor a police dog had been present during the incident, but the contrary had been proven by n.b. could not remember the exact order in which they had walked. when [the applicant] was led out of the booth, he was handcuffed ...my dog was further away the whole time, tied to the garage wall ...as for the punch ... i can only say that it appeared to me that [the applicant] had attempted to punch an officer. on 30 june 2011 the kaunas district prosecutor discontinued the investigation. the prosecutor relied on essentially the same grounds as the jonava district prosecutor in its earlier decisions (see paragraphs 23, 35, 39 and 42 above), and concluded that the applicant’s statements had been inconsistent, whereas the consistent statements of all the police officers had shown that the use of force had been a lawful and proportionate response to the applicant’s resistance and his refusal to comply with the officers’ lawful orders.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in chita. on 2 september 2004 the applicant was arrested on the charges of fraud and forgery of official documents. on 4 september 2004 the tsentralnyy district court of chita authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention. the court reasoned as follows:“the evidence collected ... incriminated [the applicant] ... in a serious crime which entails a custodial sentence exceeding ten years. ... the court takes note of the [applicant’s] character. however, ... it considers that, if at large, [the applicant] might put pressure on victims and witnesses or otherwise interfere with administration of justice or continue criminal activities, accordingly, ... the court considers it necessary to remand [the applicant] in custody.” on 11 november 2004 the chita regional court upheld the decision of 2 september 2004 on appeal. the applicant remained in custody pending investigation and trial. the court extended his pre-trial detention on several occasions reiterating, in substance, the reasoning employed by the district court on 2 september 2004. on 4 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1926 and lives in novi sad. it is a class 4 oxidiser (it can cause an explosive reaction) when particles measure over 15 micrometres. the amount put in any pile must be limited and storage sites must be designed with blast walls. all those activities and the relevant documentation were to form an integral part of the incident report. noted that there had been traces of the destruction caused by a massive explosion which had occurred at about 6 p.m. on 23 june 1995 at the vinfleks factory (production room) where bituminous materials were produced. the expert stated that the collected data were incomplete and did not contain quantitative figures of the samples examined to allow any deeper analysis of the collected evidence or its compliance with the account of the events that had allegedly led to the explosion. to bring the premix to grmeč, and whether they had known what it contained and what safety measures had been taken. on 9 june 2000 the investigating judge, on the prosecutor’s initiative, withdrew the case file and sealed the statements of the state intelligence service executives, classifying them as state secret. on 12 june 2000 the public prosecutor decided not to prosecute, relying on secret evidence and information. by a letter of the same date, the applicant was informed about the prosecutor’s decision and notified that he could pursue a subsidiary criminal prosecution within eight days of the date the letter had been served on him by lodging a request for an investigation (zahtev za sprovođenje istrage). on 20 june 2000 the applicant instituted subsidiary prosecution against r.u., the applicant appealed on 21 october 2000. on the same date, the investigating judge opened an investigation. on 29 october 2002 the investigating judge again appointed the military technical academy to draw up a report establishing in a clear and conclusive manner the cause of the explosion and which irregularities in the production process had led to the blast. the trial before the belgrade district court eventually started on 14 may 2004, when the court heard two defendants and adjourned the hearing because the scheduled time had lapsed. and adjourned to decide on further objections to the indictment. the court imposed fines on four witnesses for failure to appear in court. on 10 september 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court (ustavni sud), complaining about the length of the criminal proceedings described above. the applicant does not seem to have been served with that decision until october 2011. nevertheless, documents in the court’s possession show that in 1995 it was a well-established “socially-owned” holding company (društveno preduzeće/poslovni sistem)[3] licenced for the production of homogeneous flooring and other products made of pvc masses.
the applicant, mr vladimir nikolayevich ruban, is a ukrainian national, who was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence. on 13 august 1996 the voznesensk local prosecutor’s office in the mykolayiv region started an investigation into the murder of four persons on 12 august 1996. on 18 october 1999 the donetsk regional prosecutor’s office started investigating the murder of a. 8. on 10 november 1999 the slavyansk police department of the donetsk region started an investigation into hooliganism concerning r. 9. on 22 november 1999 the above three investigations were joined. several persons were suspected of committing the above crimes as a group, one of them being the applicant. he was also placed on the list of wanted persons. the same day the investigation in respect of the applicant was suspended until he was apprehended; the criminal proceedings continued in respect of the other suspects. on 23 december 2002, the donetsk regional court of appeal convicted and sentenced g., p. and f. for the above mentioned crimes. on 2 february 2004 the slavyansk local court ordered the applicant’s detention. on 31 march 2008 the investigation was resumed after the applicant had been extradited to ukraine. the same day the applicant was formally charged with participation in an organised criminal group together with g., p., f. and two other persons, who had died in the intervening time. the applicant was accused of strangling a., of killing four persons together with g. in 1996 and inflicting grievous bodily harm on r. in a murder attempt, the latter crime in the context of the extortion of r’s brother. all these crimes had been committed as a group. on 22 may 2008 the investigation was completed and on 26 june 2008 the case was transferred to the donetsk regional court of appeal. on 10 july 2009 the court of appeal, acting as a first-instance court, found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and banditry and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the applicant and his lawyer appealed, considering that the applicant’s guilt had not been proved. on 15 july 2010 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the judgment of 10 july 2009. on that day the applicant’s lawyer submitted an additional appeal claiming that the court of appeal had to apply the most favourable wording of the relevant provisions of the criminal code, which was that between 29 december 1999 and 29 march 2000 when the death penalty had already been abolished and life imprisonment had not yet been introduced. the supreme court in its decision noted that the applicant had been sentenced correctly.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in perm. it ordered compulsory psychiatric treatment for the applicant in a psychiatric hospital. on 3 august 2010 the perm regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the above decision on appeal. according to the certificate issued by the perm regional clinical psychiatric hospital, the applicant remained under psychiatric supervision until march 2014. on 16 august 2012 the dzerzhinskiy district court dismissed the application by the childcare authority and v. to deprive the applicant of his parental responsibility over n. it also dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim to end v.’s guardianship over n. and to return n. to him. the court concluded that, in view of the age of the child and his attachment to v., a change of his place of residence could be traumatic and was therefore undesirable. he was ready to change his place of work to be able to adapt better to his son’s schedule. he also stressed that he paid child maintenance and supported him financially. the applicant and his counsel were absent. failed to appear: plaintiff, defendant, notified. [ [representative of childcare authority]: [i] consider it possible. on the same day the district court dismissed the applicant’s application. having compared n.’s references from the nursery school dated november 2008 and the above observations of 2 may 2009, it can be noted that the child’s behaviour has changed, showing signs of acute psychological and traumatic distress. in view of the incompleteness of the data [failure to examine n. in view of v.’s refusal to give the experts access to n.], the experts consider that at the present time only short meetings between [the applicant] and the child are possible (not more than two hours 2-3 times per month) in public places on condition that the child has a positive or neutral attitude towards the father. he enclosed a list of telephone calls provided by his mobile operator showing that he had not received any calls from the court. on 18 september 2013 the regional court held an appeal hearing. the district court also found that a notification letter about the hearing of 14 may 2013 had been sent to the applicant’s address but had been returned to the court as undelivered. on 13 february 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation also refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination, finding that no significant violations of substantive or procedural law had influenced the outcome of the proceedings. he also explained that he wished to continue living with his grandmother, but maintain contact with his father by meeting him from time-to-time and communicating with him by telephone. the district court questioned n., who explained that he lived with his maternal grandparents and that he liked living with them.
the applicants, mr nizamudin aliyev (“the first applicant”) and ms madina gadzhiyeva (“the second applicant”), live in makhachkala, dagestan. according to the applicants, on 2 february 2012 they learned from sources whose identity they did not disclose that their relatives had been allegedly initially detained on the premises of the ctc in makhachkala, dagestan, and then – about two days later – taken to the ctc headquarters in the stavropol region. she had tried, but he had not got through to him. who stated that she had not witnessed the abduction and had learned of it from her relatives. on 2 february 2012 the investigators questioned ms m.a., on 28 january 2012 she had arrived at the house of the parents of her abducted husband; after her arrival, men in face masks had told her to go with them to the kirovskiy district police station in makhachkala. in particular, he stated that he had not been present during the incident but had learned of it from his wife. on 17 february 2012 the second applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case. had been taken to the ctc headquarters, where she had been questioned about telephone numbers that had been dialed by her husband. none of the witnesses specified in the above decision to resume the proceedings were questioned. the applicants were informed of the suspension. an examination of the case file showed that the investigation of the criminal case had been conducted with violations of the criminal procedure regulations. however, the investigation [in the present case] failed to question close relatives of sirazhudin aliyev and gazimagomed abdullayev ...the list of mobile telephone calls [made by the abducted men] has not been examined;replies to ten requests for information forwarded to the law-enforcement agencies and state bodies have not been received ...” 37. on 4 march 2013 the investigation was suspended again. 4; however, she had been the only one who had called the police about the incident. on 20 december 2013 the investigation was again resumed after criticism voiced by the supervisory authorities. who organised the [first applicant’s] meeting with the persons who had pointed out that the abduction had been perpetrated by officers of law-enforcement agencies ...the witness statement of ms m.a. on 2 february 2014 the investigators again questioned gazimagomed abdullayev’s brother, mr g.a., whose statement did not yield any new information. on 25 june 2014 the leninskiy district prosecutor in makhachkala examined the criminal case file and concluded that the suspension of the proceedings had been lawful.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kushchevskaya, krasnodar region. on 9 december 2010 the applicant was charged in absentia with accessory to murder and his name was put on the wanted list. on 16 december 2010 the kushchevskiy district court of the krasnodar region issued a detention order against the applicant in absentia. on 21 january 2011 the applicant reported to the police station where he was arrested. on 29 march 2011 the district court remanded the applicant in custody. on 19 april 2011 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the following grounds:“[the applicant] is accused of an extremely serious offence entailing 10 years’ imprisonment. the case materials contain evidence confirming his involvement in crimes. moreover, ... he may abscond or, if released, commit other crimes. these circumstances existed as of the date of [the applicant’s] placement into custody and have not changed at the present time. ... taking into account that it is necessary to conduct numerous investigative activities, the court shall grant the investigator’s request [to extend the applicant’s detention]”. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the courts extended his detention, using the above formula. the courts referred also to the applicant’s family status, personality, state of health, possibility to put pressure on witnesses and interfere with the investigation, absence of job. the applicant lodged appeals against some detention orders but the courts rejected them. on 2 november 2011 the applicant was additionally charged with membership in a criminal gang, six counts of unlawful transportation of fire arms and ammunition, attempted murder and murder. in october 2012 the applicant, along with two co-defendants, was committed to stand trial before the krasnodar regional court. on 7 june 2013 the applicant was released. on 30 september 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 19 june 2013 on appeal. the applicant brought a claim against the federal treasury seeking compensation for pecuniary damage (legal expenses). on 3 june 2014, the regional court awarded the applicant 680,600 russian roubles as reimbursement of legal fees.
the applicants, whose years of birth are summarised in the appendix, live in troitsko-pechorsk of the komi republic. they were municipal unitary enterprise employees working for “troitsko-pechorskoye zhkkh” («муп «троицко-печерское жкх», “the company”) in the komi republic. the company was set up in 2003 in accordance with a decision of head of the troitsko-pechorskiy district (“the district administration”) as a commercial organisation performing the following activities, among others: renovation and maintenance of the municipal housing stock; heating and water supply to the district population and enterprises; maintenance of the sewage systems; maintenance services in respect of municipal housing and adjacent territories; and providing real estate registration services in the troitsko-pechorskiy district. 39483/05 and 40527/10, §§ 55-75, 9 october 2014 for further details on the company’s status). on the dates tabulated in the appendix below the justice of the peace of the troitsko‑pechorskiy court circuit of the komi republic by separate judgments and court writs ordered the company to pay the applicants salary arrears. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. 10742/09) obtained at least two other judgments in her favour which had been issued on 22 june and 2 november 2007 against the debtor enterprise. ms lyubas, interviewed in the domestic proceedings, maintained that the award of 21 december 2006 had not been paid to her. on 11 december 2006 the supervision procedure was put in place in respect of the company. on 14 may 2007 the commercial court of the komi republic declared the company insolvent and the liquidation proceedings commenced. in november 2007 the prosecutor’s office also held an inquiry into the liquidator’s actions, found that she had acted in compliance with the domestic law and refused to bring administrative proceedings against her. the amount recovered proved insufficient to settle all creditors’ claims. he argued that the insolvency of the company had been caused by the administration. the domestic courts at all instances accepted that the assets had indeed been transferred from the company’s economic control to the district treasury. the housing and objects of the engineering infrastructure on 30 january 2006 had been withdrawn “in order to apply the housing policy” and to “reduce the company’s expenses for the maintenance of the infrastructure objects”. in particular, the ministry of architecture and communal services of the komi republic had recommended the municipalities to withdraw objects of housing and engineering infrastructure from unitary enterprises in order to optimise taxes of housing and communal services providers. finally, even though at the insolvency stage the company proved unable to meet the creditors’ claims, the claimant had failed to demonstrate that the owner “knew or ought to have known that [the transfer of the assets] would have led to the company’s insolvency”. on 28 december 2011 the commercial court of the komi republic ordered the respondent company’s liquidation. on the same date the liquidation was recorded in the register of legal entities, and the company ceased to exist. the judgments in the applicants’ favour have remained unenforced either in full or in part, as indicated in a relevant part of the appendix below.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in vinkovci. it sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment, suspended for a period of two years provided that in that period he did not commit a further offence. on 14 april 2008 the applicant applied to the đakovo municipal court (općinski sud u đakovu) for enforcement of the above judgment of 1 june 2006 (see paragraph 6 above). on 7 november 2008 the court issued a new writ of execution. by a decision of 19 february 2009 the osijek county court dismissed the debtor company’s appeal and upheld the writ of execution. on the same day, 9 march 2009, the debtor company informed the court that it had received the above-mentioned final judgment of the criminal court and that it had executed the set-off described above (see the preceding paragraph). by a decision of 27 march 2009 the đakovo municipal court decided on the debtor company’s motion for postponement, instructing the debtor company to institute separate civil proceedings for the enforcement to be declared inadmissible (in full or in part). at the same time it postponed the enforcement pending the final outcome of those proceedings. the second-instance judgment was served on the debtor company on 11 may 2011 and on the applicant a day later. it dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance decision in the remaining part. in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 17 june 2010 the đakovo municipal court again postponed the enforcement. on 3 february 2011 the osijek county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against that decision and upheld it. by a decision of 2 june 2011 that court decided to resume the enforcement in the remaining part. by another decision of the same date that court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant: (a) hrk 599.40[5] for unpaid overtime work, together with statutory default interest accrued since 11 march 2009, (b) hrk 19,495.90[6] in costs of civil proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 1 june 2006, and (c) hrk 2,606.25[7] in costs of enforcement proceedings, together with statutory default interest accrued since 7 november 2008. this decision became final on 17 june 2011. on 25 november 2010 the applicant appealed against that decision. by a decision of 6 june 2011 the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and served its decision on his representative on 26 august 2011. on 23 september 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint against the second-instance decision. by a decision of 12 december 2012 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared inadmissible the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served that decision on his representative on 31 december 2012. it held that the contested second-instance decision was not open to constitutional review.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in košice. the applicant, the father of a child, has been involved in domestic litigation concerning numerous claims on upbringing and maintenance of the child since 1993. the present application concerns three interrelated claims brought before the čadca district court on 12 march 2003 and subsequently on 3 july and 16 december 2003. these claims were all registered under the same case file no. p 170/93 and concerned the applicant’s rights of contact with his child and his request for custody of the child. the action of 3 july 2003 related to child maintenance and had been brought by the national authority, acting as a guardian ad litem for the child. in the course of the proceedings, the district court examined extensive evidence. the district court held nine hearings on the merits, out of which the applicant attended two. during the course of the proceeding, the applicant asked for a court fee exemption. he also lodged seven motions, by which he had challenged the judges of the district court as well as the regional court for bias. when he had challenged the judges of the latter court on ground of bias, the supreme court dealt with those motions. the district court twice ruled on the merits of the case, on 20 august 2008 and 31 march 2011 respectively. it also stayed the proceedings in respect of the applicant’s right to contact with his child because the child had reached the age of majority in the meantime. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint relying on several convention as well as constitution articles. he challenged among others the length of proceedings held before the district court. it also considered the applicant’s behaviour during the proceedings, his seven absences during the nine scheduled hearings, as well as his seven challenges of the domestic courts’ judges for bias, which protracted the proceedings by three years and eight months. in the light of the above, the constitutional court found no unreasonable delays in the district court’s procedure. subsequently, on 21 march 2012, the žilina regional court dealt with the applicant’s second appeal and delivered the judgment on the merits of the case, which became final on 2 april 2012. it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly amended it. this motion was dismissed by two levels of jurisdiction and the decision became final on 8 february 2013.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotypical formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. the first applicant was born in 1982 and was detained in irkutsk. on 23 december 2008 the first applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested and placed in pre-trial detention. on an unspecified date he was formally charged with banditry, kidnapping, abuse of power, robbery (four counts), preparing to commit robbery, intentionally damaging another’s property, and stealing and damaging official documents. on 19 april 2010 he, along with thirteen co-defendants, was committed for trial before the irkutsk regional court. on 7 november 2011 the irkutsk regional court convicted him of abuse of power, and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment and disqualification from holding public office for one year. the second applicant was born in 1967 and was detained in penza. on 14 february 2009 a criminal case was opened into an incident of fraud involving an apartment, which had caused damage in the amount of 440,000 russian roubles (rub). on 24 june 2009 the second applicant was arrested. on 8 june 2010 the leninskiy district court of penza found him guilty as charged and sentenced him to eleven months’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in hotarele, vâlcea county. the applicant remained with her daughter in romania until september 2008 and subsequently returned to spain to work, leaving the child in romania with her maternal grandmother. no longer lived in romania and that she did not know his whereabouts. later on the applicant provided an address in spain, which turned out to be incomplete. on 30 january 2009 the district court awarded custody of the child to the applicant, on the basis of the evidence in the case file, including the witness evidence and a report made by the child protection agency following a visit in the applicant’s home. in a decision of 11 november 2010 the district court again awarded custody to the applicant. had instituted similar proceedings in bulgaria. regarding this point, the court referred to r.e.n. five hearings took place before the county court and both the applicant and her counsel were present at all of them. on 10 june 2011 the court granted that request. informed the applicant that the said notarised consent was not sufficient for the bulgarian authorities. the applicant offered to travel to bulgaria to assist in the formalities necessary to obtain a passport. to allow contact between the mother and the child for the purposes of making travel arrangements. brought judicial review proceedings in respect of the enforcement officer’s actions; those proceedings were dismissed by the pazardzhik regional court on 22 march 2011. the report noted that the child needed to be assisted in the process of re-establishing a relationship with her mother. the supreme court of cassation found that r.e.n. they informed her that any application lodged more than one year after the abduction could be rejected. on 26 october 2011 the romanian ministry of justice also informed the applicant and her counsel about the outcome of the proceedings before the bulgarian central authority. his request for interim measures, namely for the child to live with his parents in bulgaria and for him to have custody of her, as well as for the suspension of the enforcement proceedings brought in 2010 in bulgaria by the applicant, was refused by the same court in april 2011. in a final decision of 25 march 2013 the pazardzhik regional court granted his request, quashed the termination of those proceedings and remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in novokuznetsk, the kemerovo region. in the morning of 14 june 2007 policemen came to the applicant’s flat and took him to the police station in pospelikha village in the altay region (“the police station”) for an interview. he was questioned about the circumstances of a theft which had occurred the day before and made self‑incriminating statements. during the questioning the investigator had to answer a telephone call and stepped out of the office. left alone, the applicant attempted to walk out but was stopped at the door by a policeman who told him to stay inside and wait. according to the government, the applicant came to the police station voluntarily and stayed there for no longer than forty minutes. on 18 june 2007 the investigators charged the applicant with theft but dropped the charges one month later. in 2009 the applicant brought a civil claim for compensation for unlawful criminal prosecution and deprivation of liberty. on the merits, the court held that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the unlawful criminal prosecution. it also considered that the questioning of 14 june 2007 had not amounted to a deprivation of liberty and could not give rise to any form of compensation. the applicant appealed against the judgment, arguing that the court award was too low and that it did not take into account the deprivation of liberty. he also requested leave to appear before the appeal court. on 10 february 2009 the altay regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal in his absence, endorsing the district court’s reasoning. the judgment of 20 october 2009 was enforced on 5 march 2011. in 2007 ms i. brought a civil action against the applicant, seeking to recover a contractual debt. on 5 july 2007 the justice of the peace of the pospelikhinskiy district of the altay region examined the case in the applicant’s absence. the judgment indicated that the applicant was serving a term of imprisonment and that he had been informed in a timely way about the date and place of the hearing. the applicant appealed to the pospelikhinskiy district court and sought leave to appear before the appeal court. by an interim decision of 12 september 2007, the district court refused the applicant leave to appear, finding that the code of civil procedure did not provide for escorting detained litigants to courts hearing civil cases. the applicant received a copy of the appeal judgement in november 2007.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in niš. on 28 april 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the smederevo court of first instance (osnovni sud u smederevu) against a socially/state-owned company “fžv želvoz a.d. on 15 december 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice (izvršenje na osnovu verodostojne isprave). on 15 june 2011 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process. on 25 october 2011 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring. on 3 november 2011 the applicant appealed the decision to stay the enforcement proceedings. on 10 february 2012 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the enforcement court. on 21 march 2013 the applicant urged the court to continue the enforcement proceedings. on 7 june 2013 the court informed the applicant that the debtor was still undergoing restructuring and that therefore the enforcement proceedings could not be continued. it would appear that the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 11 january 2010 the applicant brought an enforcement action before the niš commercial court (privredni sud u nišu) against a socially/state-owned company “vagonka a.d. on 29 january 2010 that court ordered direct enforcement of the outstanding invoice. on 4 november 2009 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor as part of privatisation process. on 4 february 2010 the enforcement proceedings were stayed because the debtor was undergoing restructuring. the applicant did not appeal against this decision which became final on 17 february 2010. on 20 march 2013 the applicant urged the court to continue the enforcement proceedings. on 22 march 2013 the court informed the applicant that the debtor was still undergoing restructuring and that therefore the enforcement proceedings could not be continued.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in mississauga, canada. they continued living in canada and their son was born there in september 2010. they agreed to return to canada in july 2011 and aeroplane tickets were purchased to this end. soon afterwards the applicant went back to canada alone. on 31 october 2011 the applicant lodged an application to have his child returned under the hague convention. on 27 november 2012 the kielce district court decided to obtain an expert report from the family consultation centre (rodzinny ośrodek diagnostyczno-konsultacyjny “the rodk”). were invited to appear at an interview at the rodk which was scheduled for 30 november 2012. in their report, the rodk experts took notice of the fact that for the past year and a half the child (who was two years old at the time of the psychological examination) had lived away from and almost without any contact with his father. they also observed that the child had a strong emotional bond with his mother; he was developing well and spoke polish; and that e.n. the applicant did not show any interest in the child. he had also stopped paying child support and had not shown any interest in him. the appellate court observed that international and domestic practice required that article 13 (b) be given a restrictive reading to the effect that, in principle, any unfavourable consequences of the child’s separation stemming from the order to surrender the child by the abducting parent did not give rise to a grave risk of physical or psychological harm within the meaning of that provision. on 2 march 2012 the kielce district court, with i.g. it was considered that the applicant had not demonstrated that the child’s mother, apart from her allegedly hostile attitude, had obstructed his contact with the child. the applicant also submitted that on 9 july 2013 the appellate court had dismissed his request, presumably for a different schedule of his visits. the details of this decision are unknown to the court. a copy of this decision has not been submitted by the court. on 27 october 2011 the ontario superior court of justice in canada held that the child’s retention in poland was wrongful and issued an interim order granting full custody of the child to the applicant, authorising him and the law-enforcement authorities to apprehend the child and ordering e.n. no sentence was pronounced on that occasion. on 11 september 2012 the ontario superior court of justice confirmed the interim decision of 27 october 2011, granting a final order of the applicant’s exclusive custody of the child.
at the material time all the applicants were detained in russian penal facilities. while in detention, the applicants mr baban, mr barkov and mr bogatyrev sought compensation for inadequate conditions of their detention and substandard medical care; the applicants mr davydov, mr pflyaum and mr yakovlev were involved in contract disputes; mr fedchenko was the respondent in a divorce claim; mr starodubtsev challenged the decision by which he had lost the status of a disabled person; and mr shavayev was the defendant in an action for damages brought by the federal customs service. none of the applicants, apart from mr yakovlev, were able to attend the hearings before the courts of first instance. the domestic courts refused the applicants leave to be present at the hearings, on the ground that there was no domestic legal provision for bringing detainees to courts. in some of the cases they quoted article 77.1 of the code on the execution of sentences (see paragraph 10 below) and the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure. in the other cases the issue of the applicants’ presence was left unaddressed. in the first-instance proceedings mr shavayev and mr starodubtsev were represented by their relatives. mr barkov and mr davydov were interviewed at courts located near the places of their detention. the applicants appealed, raising the question of their appearance in court in their appeal statements. some submitted separate requests seeking leave to appear before the appeal court. the appeal courts either dismissed their arguments and endorsed the findings of the first-instance courts or concluded that their absence from court was in line with the legislation and did not contravene the principle of fairness. none of the applicants were present or represented at the appellate hearings. the dates of the final judgments are set out in appendix i.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. the applicant had been employed by the national security service as a system operator since 1981. she submitted that, on account of the nature of her duties, she had held a security clearance permitting her access to classified information constituting state secrets. according to the applicant’s job description, being in a possession of such a security clearance had been a prerequisite to her holding her post. on 30 april 2002 the classified information protection act (hereinafter “the act”) was promulgated in the state gazette. under the classified information protection act, permits granting access to classified information that had been issued under the legal provisions existing before the entry into force of the act were to remain valid until their replacement by security clearance allowing access to classified information. the heads of organisational units employing persons who possessed an access permit and whose positions required that they have access to classified information were to request the issuance of security clearance, in accordance with the requirements of the act. non-compliance with that provision would result in the invalidation of the respective existing access permits. on 3 june 2003, in compliance with that obligation, the director of the national security service issued a decision refusing the applicant security clearance allowing access to classified information. the applicant submitted that that decision had been based on a psychological test. the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of the refusal, apart from a reference to section 57 of the classified information protection act. the applicant lodged an appeal against the refusal with the state commission for information security. the latter, by a decision of 5 february 2004, upheld the refusal. that decision was final and not amenable to judicial review. the reason given for the termination of her employment was the refusal to grant her security clearance, possession of which was an indispensable condition of her being able to perform her duties. the applicant challenged her dismissal at three levels of jurisdiction. the applicant’s request that a report by a psychiatric expert be commissioned was refused by the sofia district court. the court added that the refusal was not amenable to any judicial review; therefore, the court was not competent to examine, within the framework of the dismissal proceedings, any substantial or procedural questions related to its lawfulness. on appeal, the sofia city court, by a ruling of 6 april 2006 upheld the lower court’s decision, endorsing its reasoning. on 19 june 2008, the supreme court of cassation upheld those rulings.
the applicants were born in 1950 and 1957 respectively and live in sofia. on 19 february 1993 the applicants, at the time a married couple, bought a plot of land of 1,000 square metres in the village of kranevo, on the black sea coast. the seller, mr o., had acquired the property in 1967 from the agricultural co-operative that existed at the time, in exchange for another plot of land of his. the applicants’ possession of the land remained undisturbed until 2003, when other persons took possession of it. the applicants discovered then that the land had been collectivised after 1945 and that in 1991 the heirs of the pre-collectivisation owner, mr k., had instituted restitution proceedings under the relevant provisions of the agricultural land act (“the ala”, see paragraph 13 below). their restitution request had been allowed in a court judgment of 7 december 1995 and in a decision issued by the competent administrative body ‒ the local agricultural land commission ‒ on 4 april 1996. thereafter, the heirs of mr k. had transferred the land to the persons who had later taken possession of the plot. on an unspecified date in 2003 the applicants brought a rei vindicatio action against these individuals. in a judgment of 25 may 2005 the balchik district court dismissed their claim. it relied on the provision of section 10(13) of the ala (see paragraph 15 below), holding on its basis that of the two rival claims to the same land the law gave priority to the one based on restitution. upon appeal, on 25 january 2007 the dobrich regional court reversed that decision and allowed the applicants’ action. it considered in particular that section 10(13) of the ala was not applicable to the case as it had only been introduced in 1997, that is to say after the restitution decision in favour of mr k.’s heirs and after the applicants had bought the plot of land. upon further appeal, in a final judgment of 12 december 2008, the supreme court of cassation quashed the regional court’s judgment and dismissed the applicants’ rei vindicatio claim. it took the view that section 10(13) of the ala, introduced in 1997, had to be considered to be applicable with effect from the ala’s entry into force in 1991 because it was merely clarifying its general restitution provisions. as to the exception contained in section 18z(3) of the regulations for the ala’s implementation, also introduced in 1997 (see paragraph 16 below), the supreme court considered it inapplicable to the case; in its view, section 18z(3) only precluded the restitution of properties which had been the subject of transactions prior to the ala’s entry into force in 1991, whereas the applicants had bought their plot in 1993.
mr shahanov, who was born in 1977, is serving a life sentence in plovdiv prison. mr palfreeman, who was born in 1986, is serving a sentence of twenty years’ imprisonment in sofia prison. in 2011, when serving his sentence in plovdiv prison, mr shahanov was sharing a cell with eight other inmates. on 24 october 2011 he made two complaints to the minister of justice: one written by him personally and one written on his behalf by his wife. mr shahanov requested that steps be taken to move x to a prison where he did not have relatives. an inquiry was opened pursuant to mr shahanov’s complaints, and written statements were taken from x, other inmates, y, z, and other prison officers. in a letter of 28 november 2011, the head of the chief directorate for the execution of sentences informed the governor of plovdiv prison that the inquiry had not found familial relationships or improper contacts between x and any of the prison officers, or a risk for mr shahanov. on 30 november 2011 mr shahanov sought judicial review of the order. the plovdiv district court heard mr shahanov’s claim on 2 december 2011 and, in a final decision of the same date (опр. mr shahanov asserted that his correspondence was routinely opened and read by the prison authorities. in support of his assertion, he submitted seven letters sent in 2012, six of which were addressed to his counsel, whose envelopes bore the stamp “checked” on their backs. on 23 may 2012 mr palfreeman was visited by two journalists. at the same time, a fellow inmate of israeli nationality also had a visitor. the next day, 24 may 2012, with the help of another inmate who knew bulgarian, mr palfreeman wrote the following complaint to the governor of sofia prison:“on 23 may 2012, during the midday visit, personal items of visitors were stolen from the visitors’ lockers, which are only accessible to the guards. also, the guards behaved very rudely and coarsely with the visitors, yelling at them and insulting them for no reason. on 11 june 2012 a hearing took place before the prison’s disciplinary commission. there was no evidence that they had been treated rudely by prison staff either. he argued, inter alia, that his disciplinary punishment was in breach of section 90(5) of the 2009 act (see paragraph 25 below) and this court’s case-law, that deprivation of the right to receive food parcels was a serious sanction in view of the insufficient quantity of food provided by the prison, and that it was an attempt to cow him into not making complaints against the prison administration. on 14 august 2012 the head of the chief directorate for the execution of sentences dismissed the appeal. the sanction fully corresponded to the nature and the gravity of his act, his attitude towards it, and his previous conduct.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in skopje. the applicant was employed by the state intelligence agency (агенција за разузнавање, “the employer”). on 28 february 2001 she was dismissed from work as redundant given that internal regulations (правилник за систематизација на работните места, “the regulations”) of 27 february 2001 provided for reduced number of employees for posts such as the post held by the applicant. on 9 april 2001 the applicant challenged her dismissal before the skopje court of first instance (“the first-instance court”). after three remittal orders, on 29 november 2005 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim, finding that she had been dismissed on 28 february 2001 on the basis of the regulations, which had been adopted by the employer and approved by the government on 27 february 2001. it further found that the government’s approval had been received by the employer on 2 march 2001, but that had been irrelevant given that it was only the date when approval had been given by the government that was important for the entry into force of the regulations. on 14 december 2005 the applicant appealed, arguing inter alia that the regulations could not have applied to her case, as it could only be adopted after the employer had received the government’s approval. the applicant relied on another final judgment of the skopje court of appeal (“the appellate court”) in a similar case concerning a former colleague of the applicant, in which it had been established that the regulations had not entered into force at the time of the dismissal (see paragraph 17 below). she contended that under the relevant law (see paragraph 16 below) the regulations could only be adopted after the government’s approval had been obtained. on 23 february 2006 the appellate court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it found that the government had approved the regulations on 27 february 2001, that they had entered into force the same day, and that the applicant’s dismissal of 28 february 2001 was therefore lawful. on 7 april 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court. in it she argued, inter alia, that the regulations could only be adopted after the government’s approval had been obtained, and that they had thus not entered into force at the time of her dismissal. she referred to the earlier judgment of the appellate court (see paragraph 17 below), and argued that it had deviated from its established practice on the matter without providing any reasons. she further contended that the dismissal of her former colleagues, which had been based on the same grounds, had been quashed and they had been reinstated to their posts. on 25 october 2007 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. it found that on 27 february 2001 the government had approved the regulations, which had thus entered into force the same day. on 15 january 2008 the applicant was served with the supreme court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1994 and lives in bidovce. the perpetrators of the mugging were not known to him. the boy and his parents subsequently reported the incident to the local county police. the three suspects were kept at the police station and preliminarily questioned (vyťažení) by officers from the county police. as to the rooms in which they were kept, these were used as offices, were fitted out with the usual office equipment and were not furnished as detention cells. no mention was made of any ill‑treatment. there was no mention of any ill-treatment. in the applicant’s submission, meanwhile, in the days that followed his release, his mother presented herself at the county police station and contacted the ministry of the interior by telephone to complain about the treatment to which her son had been subjected while detained. the persons inflicting that treatment had worn uniforms. although the applicant did not know their identity, he would certainly recognise them. the doctor further observed that there was no haematoma and that the cheek was sensitive and slightly swollen. it observed that the applicant’s injury could have been inflicted in the course of his arrest, which he had resisted and which accordingly had had to be carried out forcefully. in addition, the cis observed that the police officers in question had not been involved in the investigation of the alleged robbery, but had merely been guarding the applicant. as to the part of the applicant’s criminal complaint concerning the alleged failure to notify his legal guardians of his arrest and detention, to provide him with food and water during his detention, and to hear him immediately after his arrest (see paragraph 24 above), the district police informed the applicant in a letter of 8 june 2011, without any explanation at all, that “in the investigation of the given matter, no error had been committed by the investigative organs”. on the last point, the applicant argued that there had been many known incidents of police violence against the roma in the course of arrest and detention in slovakia, and that his treatment by the police had been influenced by his romani origin. on 10 april 2012 the constitutional court rejected the complaint as manifestly ill-founded. 74832/01, §§ 57-63, 14 december 2010); v.c. european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment: report of 25 november 2014 on its visit to slovakia in 2013 (cpt/inf [2014] 29) 34. the alleged ill-treatment mostly consisted of slaps, punches and kicks to various parts of the body. in one case, the head of a detained juvenile was allegedly repeatedly banged against a wall by a police officer during questioning, apparently in an attempt to extract a confession.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in vladivostok. he lived in the town of osh in kyrgyzstan. on 4 july 2010 the applicant arrived in russia. on 9 july 2010 the kyrgyz authorities charged the applicant in absentia with violent crimes related to these clashes, including the kidnapping and murder of two law-enforcement officers. his detention was subsequently extended several times. on 29 january 2014 the russian prosecutor’s office informed the kyrgyz authorities about the applicant’s arrest. on 11 february 2015 the primorsk regional court upheld the extension order on appeal. on 27 july 2015 the applicant was released. it appears that the applicant is currently at large. the request was accompanied by assurances that the applicant would not be subjected to torture or inhuman treatment and that russian diplomats would be granted the opportunity to visit him. on 17 october 2014 the deputy prosecutor general granted the extradition request submitted by the kyrgyz authorities. on 12 december 2014 the primorsk regional court rejected his appeal in the light of the diplomatic assurances given by the kyrgyz authorities and the improvement of the situation in kyrgyzstan. on 25 march 2015 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal and the extradition order became final. for instance, on 30 and 31 july 2014 russian diplomats had visited some such detainees, who had made no complaints in relation to their transfer, detention, prosecution or treatment. in the supreme court’s view, such a monitoring mechanism was effective in observing compliance by the kyrgyz authorities with their obligations to ensure the rights of the extradited persons, including the right not to be subjected to torture and inhuman treatment. the supreme court noted that the applicant belonged to a vulnerable group whose members were at risk of being subjected to torture by the law‑enforcement agencies, according to international reports. on 7 february 2014 the applicant applied to the primorsk region department of the federal migration service (управление федеральной миграционной службы по приморскому краю) (hereinafter the “primorsk region fms”) seeking refugee status. the applicant appealed to the federal migration authority, (федеральная миграционная служба (фмс)) (hereinafter the “fms”). he claimed that he was being persecuted on the grounds of his ethnic origin and, if extradited, would be subjected to torture. it also indicated that the applicant was not a member of any political, religious, military or public organisation, had neither served in the army nor taken part in any military activities, had never been prosecuted or threatened by the authorities, and had not been involved in any violent incidents.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in kovel. she was diagnosed with acute enterocolitis with concomitant illnesses. at 3.45 p.m. her condition aggravated, and acrocyanosis of the lips and nose were noted. at 4 p.m. the resuscitation specialists performed artificial pulmonary ventilation and cardiac massage. on 19 september 2003 the prosecutor’s office, having conducted a pre-investigation inquiry, decided not to institute criminal proceedings against the doctors of the hospital for lack of corpus delicti. the next day that decision was quashed by the supervising prosecutor and further inquiry was ordered. if her family had sought medical aid in due time, her life and health prognosis could have been more favourable. on 7 august 2008 the investigation was completed. the case was referred to the court for trial. on 30 march 2009 the turiysk district court committed dr g. for trial. on 26 october 2009 the turiysk district court found that on 27 august 2003 dr g. had committed the offence of failing to provide the applicant’s daughter with medical aid. the applicant and the prosecutor appealed against that judgment. on 23 february 2010 the volyn regional court of appeal upheld the judgment of 26 october 2009 as regards dr g.’s partial acquittal. as regards her conviction, it stated that the trial court had failed to specify the punishment from which she had been released. the court sentenced dr g. to a fine and a three-year ban on medical practice. it nevertheless released her from that punishment due to the expiry of the time-limit for criminal responsibility. on 24 september 2010 the volyn regional court of appeal upheld that judgment. on 23 september 2011 the applicant initiated civil proceedings seeking compensation for the non-pecuniary damage caused by the hospital’s failure to ensure appropriate medical treatment for his daughter. dr g. was admitted to the proceedings as a third party. on 18 april 2012 the volyn regional court of appeal upheld the decision of 7 march 2012.
the applicants, a married couple and their son, were born in 1964, 1965 and 2000 respectively. the applicants were brought up in baghdad. there, unknown men asked for him, after which he was treated in three different hospitals. the first applicant’s business stocks were attacked four or five times by al-qaeda members, who had threatened the guards. the applicants maintained that, in the event of their return to iraq, they risked persecution by al-qaeda and that the first applicant appeared on al-qaeda’s death list. during the past few years the police authorities have taken numerous measures to fight against corruption, clan and militia connections and pure criminality within the police. one of the reasons is probably that many police officers are relatively new and lack experience, and that it takes time to introduce a new method of investigation based on technical evidence. nevertheless, the current country information shows that the number of suspects who have been prosecuted during the past few years has increased significantly. during this period they were not exposed to any direct abuses. [ in addition, the applicant must justify this. in those cases in which the alleged risk of persecution or other abuses does not emanate from the authorities, which as a rule is the case in iraq, the applicant must show what efforts he or she has made to be afforded protection by the authorities. the applicant can do this either by relying on evidence or by giving a credible account of events which appear plausible. against the background of the fact that [the first and second applicants] have not even tried to seek the protection of the iraqi authorities, the migration agency considers that they have not made a plausible case that they would not have access to protection by the authorities in the event of potential threats from al-qaeda upon returning to iraq. the migration agency notes in this context that there is no armed conflict in iraq. the migration agency notes that fierce tensions between opposing factions are prevalent in baghdad. they had contacted the police following the fire to their home and the first applicant’s business stock in 2006 and 2008 and the murder of the first and second applicants’ daughter in 2008, but thereafter they had not dared to contact the authorities owing to the risk of disclosing their residence. together with their written submissions, they enclosed a translated written statement allegedly from a neighbour in baghdad, who stated that a masked terrorist group had come looking for the first applicant on 10 september 2011 at 10 p.m. and that the neighbour had told them that the applicants had moved to an unknown place. the migration agency made submissions before the migration court. on 29 august 2012 the applicants submitted an application to the migration agency for a re-examination of their case. they maintained that the first applicant was under threat from al-qaeda because he had been politically active.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in narva, estonia. when he woke up in a room next to the detention cells in the police station, he saw the two police officers who had been present at the playground in front of him. the applicant, who was still handcuffed, continued to behave aggressively at the police station. the findings on examination were that he had haematomas on the left part of the cranium and a swollen right wrist and was in a state of alcoholic intoxication. he understood from these gestures that the young man was being hit. to cuff the applicant’s hands behind his back as the applicant was still putting up physical resistance. on 18 may 2009 the police investigator took a statement from m.z. he was put in the van and taken to the police station. helped to place the applicant in the police van. stated that following an exchange with the applicant the police officer forced him to the ground. all of the children, including e.g., who had arrived after the applicant was put on the ground, confirmed that the officers kept the applicant on the ground by force. on reaching the building at 10 kreenholmi street he saw the applicant was not behaving appropriately as he was waving his hands and staggering. further stated that at the police station the applicant shouted that the police were beating him, while s.b. on the same day, 8 june 2009, the police investigator took statements from officers s.t. stated that he did not get out of the van. on 2 september 2009 the forensic expert gave an oral statement to the police investigator about his written opinion. in reply to a question about whether the applicant had had a haematoma in the area of the left eye on both 30 april and 1 may, the expert replied that there was no information about that in the documents of 30 april. regarding the applicant’s arrest, the police investigator was of the view that the applicant’s allegations about his beating were completely groundless. had kept the applicant on the ground to restrain him. the court considered that the witness m.z.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. at the time of the events giving rise to this application, the applicant was working as a watchman on a construction site located in the vicinity of a military compound housing the 7th gendarmerie commando regiment in foça, i̇zmir. while walking towards his friends, the applicant suddenly collapsed for an unknown reason; his friends immediately took him to hospital. however, a lung x-ray taken subsequently showed that a foreign object, which appeared to be a bullet, was lodged between his eleventh and twelfth ribs. according to a medical report issued on 30 december 2008 by the karşıyaka state hospital, it had been decided for medical reasons to leave the bullet inside the applicant’s body, to be extracted only in the event of deterioration in the applicant’s condition. at 2.30 a.m. on 15 october 2008 two gendarme officers from the crime scene investigation unit of the menemen provincial gendarmerie command arrived at the site of the incident, which was located by a farm by the name of “dürüs” (“the dürüs farm”), to carry out a preliminary investigation and to prepare a scene-of-incident report (on the instructions of the foça public prosecutor). firing practice was carried out with g3 rifles at the first shooting range and with 5.56 mm rifles at the second shooting range. according to a sketch map prepared by the gendarme officers, the site of the incident was approximately 15 degrees to the east of the assumed trajectory of bullets fired from the first shooting range. they also told the public prosecutor that they often heard gunfire coming from the military compound during shooting practice and that gunfire had also been audible at the time of the incident, although they had not heard gun shots emanating from anywhere nearby. then, all of a sudden, he had felt a sharp pain in his back and had collapsed to the ground. having regard to the witness statements, and to the absence of any other factors that might explain the applicant’s injury, the police expert opined that the injury had probably been caused by a bullet that had ricocheted during the firing practice at the military compound. he submitted a simple sketch map of the site of the incident along with his report. on 23 october 2008 the applicant was discharged from the hospital. the applicant was reminded of his right to request the assistance of a lawyer, which he once again declined to do. he did, however, reserve his right to claim compensation. on 24 november 2008 the foça public prosecutor delivered a decision not to prosecute. there had also not been an attempt to establish whether the bodily harm had been caused through negligence, recklessness, lack of experience or breach of duty or with intent. the assize court did not provide any justification for its decision, apart from stating that the foça public prosecutor’s decision had been in compliance with the law. on 22 october 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir administrative court. during the course of that inquiry thirteen gendarme officers of various ranks who had attended the firing practice in question were interviewed on 15 october 2008 by a lieutenant-colonel.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in chisinau. on 14 august 2009 he was involved in an accident with a car in which no one was injured. had changed lanes without paying attention to the applicant’s bus, which had been overtaking it in the other lane. the applicant had not had enough time to brake and had hit p.c. on the same date the chief inspector of the traffic police issued a decision finding p.c. responsible for the accident under article 242 § 1 of the traffic code (see paragraph 12 below), fined him 800 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 50 euros (eur)) and gave him five penalty points. by a judgment of 29 september 2009 the anenii noi district court dismissed p.c. ’s objection and upheld the decision of the chief inspector of the traffic police. the applicant was not involved in the proceedings. challenged the district court’s decision. on 19 november 2009, the bender court of appeal reversed the decision of the first-instance court, finding the applicant guilty of causing the accident. the court found that the applicant had not kept a safe distance between his bus and the vehicle in front of him and stated as follows:“... according to article 49 of the route code, the driver of a vehicle shall keep a safe distance between his vehicle and the vehicle in front of him, in such a manner as to avoid collision in case of sudden braking by the foregoing vehicle. these rules were not observed by the driver of the vehicle which was behind, namely by the driver of the bus [...], mr igor pascani, and by no means by mr p.c.” the applicant was again not involved in the proceedings and only found out about them at a later date. under domestic law he was not able to challenge the court of appeal’s decision. as a result of the above judgment and based on its conclusions, on 22 january 2010 the chief inspector of the traffic police issued a new decision by which he found the applicant guilty of the breach of article 49 of the traffic code causing the accident of 14 august 2009. it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that following the accident the owner of the bus recovered the cost of its repairs from p.c. after the judicial proceedings in which the applicant was found responsible, p.c. attempted to recover the cost of the repairs of his car from the other party’s insurance company. however, it appears from the case file that the company suspended payment until the case has been finally determined by the court.
the applicant is a company limited by shares registered under hungarian law. on 31 may 2000 a property claim was brought against the applicant requesting it to pay mandate fees in the amount of 275 million hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 1,057,000 euros (eur) at the time). on 6 june 2000 the budapest regional court ordered the applicant, under section 187(1) of act no. liii of 1994 on court execution, to deposit on the bailiff’s trust account a security in the amount of huf 275 million. the applicant appealed against the decision but this was to no avail. the money was deposited on the bailiff’s trust account on 27 march 2001. under the law, such deposits yield no interest. the applicant requested to have the money released arguing that its financial situation was satisfactory, there was no need for such a deposit and that this measure contradicted the principle of economic rationality. the applicant’s request was dismissed on 8 may 2001. the supreme court as second-instance court upheld the decision on 8 november 2001. the applicant’s subsequent requests to have the money released, in exchange for other securities offered, were also turned down. after remittals on 27 november 2002 and 8 june 2007, on 16 october 2008 the regional court adopted a judgment, partly found for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant to pay huf 137,280,000 (eur 514,000 at the actual rate) plus interest accrued as of 6 january 2000. on 16 october 2009 and 29 april 2010, respectively, the budapest court of appeal and the kúria upheld this judgment. although the plaintiff succeeded only partly in the litigation, the amount actually payable by the applicant exceeded the amount of the entire deposit. this outcome was the consequence of the fact that whilst the applicant was ordered to pay accrued interest on the money due to the plaintiff in the amount of approximately huf 189,500,000 (eur 700,000 at the actual rate), its own money deposited on the bailiff’s trust account had yielded no interest. ultimately, the applicant had to surrender the whole deposit and pay about another huf 90 million (eur 330,000). the applicant challenged the impugned provisions of act no. liii of 1994 on court execution before the constitutional court; but its constitutional complaint was dismissed on 7 june 2011. this court held that ‘interest’ as such was consideration for the ‘use’ of another person’s money; however, the authorities had not in any way ‘used’ the deposited amount. furthermore, the constitution did not provide any safeguards against the depreciation of an asset, including a deposit of money subject to inflation, and that such depreciation for economical or other reasons did not amount to a deprivation of property.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in sliema. in 1976 the property was requisitioned and allocated to p.s. in 1987 the applicant became aware that on an unspecified date p.s. who had no title to it (since it had not been allocated to him by the authorities). the applicant complained to the housing authority, which, instead of condemning the illegal occupation, on 23 may 1988 issued a new requisition order, assigning the property to c.c. obtained a development permit to carry out alteration work to the property. the work was carried out without the consent of the applicant, as owner. that amount was increased to mtl 80 (approximately eur 185) in 2010 or thereabouts. according to the government, the applicant has never requested such payment from the authorities. consequently, he sought to annul the order, and requested the release of the property in his favour with free and vacant possession. its sale market value was estimated at eur 95,000. by a judgment of 14 july 2011 the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional jurisdiction, found in favour of the applicant. the court held that given that the violation had arisen solely from a lack of fair balance, it was not necessary to annul the requisition order and release the property. the court awarded the applicant eur 21,000. had paid the housing authority mtl 40 per year and it was only recently (sic.) that the rent had been increased to mtl 80; that the applicant had only received payment up until 2003; that the rental value of the property on the market in 1987 was mtl 249 (approximately eur 580), and in 2010 it was mtl 1,223.50 (approximately eur 2,850); and lastly, that the requisition order had been issued in the public interest to procure accommodation for those in need, and thus the compensation payable could be less than the full market value. it considered that the first‑instance court had been free to make an award equitably, and correct to make no award for the time prior to 1988, the date when the applicant had become the owner of the property (sic.) and before which he had had no ties with it. the constitutional court also refused to annul the order, given that it had been issued lawfully and had pursued a legitimate aim. compensation in cases of a constitutional nature was not equivalent to civil damage, which could be pursued before the courts of ordinary jurisdiction.
the applicants are owners of a house at 4, wagon street, rabat, malta, which they inherited from their late father in 1997. it is a corner house with an area of around 82 square metres. the applicants alleged that on an unspecified date in 1987 a certain c.c. broke into the house and started to live there, with his family, without legal title. on 8 june 1988, pending a judgment by the ordinary court concerning the eviction, the maltese government again requisitioned the property, under an order carrying the same reference as the first requisition (no. the rent fixed by the authorities amounted to approximately 35 euros (eur) annually. a government expert (who acceded to the property) valued it at a sale price of eur 153,000. they lodged an action against the director of social housing. with reference to the preliminary pleas raised, it considered that it had not been necessary also to notify the attorney general – such a requirement had been intended to ensure that a representative of a government department would not fail to appear, a risk eliminated if the attorney general, who had to provide lawyers for the department’s defence, was notified. furthermore, the applicants had no other remedies available to them. the court also expressed doubts as to the public interest of the measure. it awarded the applicants the sum of eur 8,000 in compensation based on equity (arbitrio boni viri) and ordered the return of the property free and unencumbered to the applicants within three months. the defendants appealed both in respect of the preliminary pleas and on the merits. however, according to the applicants, the president of the constitutional court refused to withdraw. this situation had lasted for more than twenty-two years. it considered that since the requisition had been lawful and in the public interest, it was for the court to redress the lack of a fair balance but it was not required to annul the requisition order. according to the applicants, on an unspecified date, c.c. took possession of the property and became its occupant. despite the vacation of the property, the authorities did not derequisition it. ’s unlawful occupation of their property.
the applicant was born in 1932 and lives in domitrovec. in the ensuing two sets of criminal proceedings instituted by i.m. in subsequent civil defamation proceedings which i.m. by a decision of 18 march 2010 the municipal court joined the two sets of enforcement proceedings. since he did not do so, on 12 january 2011 i.m. asked the court to schedule a second public auction. on 17 january 2011 the applicant submitted another certificate confirming that on 14 january 2011 he had paid hrk 7,340[9] of the debt, and asked the court not to schedule a second auction because he would gradually pay the rest of the debt. he thus asked the court to issue a decision on costs, and the award decision. after he deposited the purchase price, within three months of the decision becoming final. had been adopted earlier, on 17 march 2011 (see paragraph 21 above). it noted however that the fact that the applicant had paid off the debt would be taken into account when distributing the proceeds of sale (see paragraph 32 below). on 5 december 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision. had got it both ways” as he had both been paid the debt and acquired the share in the property. by a ruling of 24 april 2012 (zaključak o predaji, see paragraph 51 below) the municipal court surrendered (transferred) the applicant’s share in the property to i.m. on 17 september 2012 the municipal court issued a distribution decision (rješenje o namirenju, see paragraph 54 below), distributing the hrk 43,734[14] deposited with the court by i.m. an appeal by the applicant against that decision was dismissed by the county court on 26 march 2013. he sought a partition of co-ownership in the same way as in his petition of 23 may 2013. by a judgment of 6 november 2014 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered a partition by sale and distribution of the proceeds to the co-owners. as a co-owner he was thus entitled to seek from the applicant half of the rent under which the house could be rented out. these proceedings are still pending before the first-instance court.
she is the paternal grandmother of the second applicant, who was born in 1997. on 27 july 2002 the air force of ukraine organised a military aviation show in the “sknyliv” aerodrome in lviv (“the sknyliv air show”) to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the 14th air force corps. both pilots had successfully ejected before the explosion. subsequently, she underwent psychological rehabilitation programmes intended to help her recover from her emotional trauma. on various dates several concurrent investigations were opened to establish the circumstances of the accident, including investigation by a special government commission set up for this purpose, the ministry of defence, the lviv city council, the prosecutor’s office, and sknyliv tragedy, a non-governmental organisation founded by survivors of the accident and those who had lost relatives at the air show. the air force headquarters appointed a mixed team of officers from different units, including colonel v.t., stationed in mirgorod, as the aerobatic performance director. the special commission criticised, in particular, v.s. (the air force commander-in-chief) and his colleagues from the air force headquarters responsible for the military training – lieutenant-general o.v. similarly to the reports produced by the governmental authorities, the authors of this report concluded that the immediate cause of the crash was error by the first pilot in performing a manoeuvre, which had been neither envisaged by his mission order nor practised by him before the show, while the second pilot and ground crew did not take the opportunity to intervene in respect of the first pilot’s conduct. notwithstanding the aforementioned findings, in the opinion of the authours of the report, the accident had largely resulted from a structural problem. of the air force headquarters was at variance with the aircraft specifications. on 30 may 2003 the civilian expert engaged in the above assessment issued a separate opinion in which he stated, inter alia, that in his view the aerobatics zone had been too small; its location had been inherently dangerous and the pilots’ mission order had been incompatible with the su‑27 specifications. on 11 june 2003 the investigation obtained a conclusion by these two experts, in which they reported of numerous shortcomings in the air show organisation. 249 of the deputy minister of defence on 25 december 1998 (настанова по виконанню польотів в авіації збройних сил україни, нвп-99); air force navigation service guidelines of the armed forces of ukraine, enacted by order no. on 8 february 2005 the five military experts produced a report in which they concluded that all four defendants had duly fulfilled their responsibilities in respect of the organisation of the air show and that none of them had breached any service duty or other applicable provisions. during the trial, the defendants pleaded innocent of any wrongdoing. having been appointed to this position created by order of the 14th corps commander, he had developed his own reference document listing his duties for the commander’s approval and had done his best in performing them. and the pilots of his doubts concerning its safety. on 2 march 2006 the military panel of the supreme court of ukraine upheld this judgment on appeal and it became final. they presented a copy of the decision of the bailiffs’ service dated 28 december 2012 terminating the enforcement proceedings, in view of the fact that the judgment had been duly enforced.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in riga. in the summer of 2007 a book called “kitchen of litigation” (tiesāšanās kā ķēķis) was published, which contained transcripts of allegedly authentic telephone conversations between the lawyers of a well‑known law office in latvia and judges working in various courts, including the senate of the supreme court. the judiciary’s allegedly unlawful and unethical behaviour provoked considerable public debate and attracted wide media coverage. on 17 september 2007 the supreme court established a working group consisting of five judges. on 7 november 2007, during the annual conference of judges, the chairman of the supreme court made a speech about the effects of the book and the public debate which followed. ... i think that the information about the alleged conversations between judges and the lawyer [...] should be treated as a signal or a call to look at the problems in the judiciary in a wider context ...... in relation to this particular situation, i think it was caused by the attitude to the rule of law and the code of ethics which regulate judges’ behaviour. in the course of the inquiry the prosecutor general’s office questioned several judges mentioned in the book. had arranged a meeting in the judge o.d.j. the impugned conversation had not referred to any specific civil case so the prosecutor general’s office concluded that there were insufficient grounds to investigate judge o.d.j. on 30 november 2007 the working group established by the supreme court published a report on their inquiry into alleged ethical wrongdoing by judges. whose conversation with the lawyer had been published in the book, had not. it stated:“... [12.5] in his submissions [5.5] o.d.j. in 2004 the applicant and another person brought a civil claim against a third party. the hearing before the cassation court was held on 29 august 2007. the senate sat as a panel of three judges, including o.d.j. the applicant’s representative raised objections to o.d.j., arguing that the applicant had reasonable doubts as to his impartiality on the grounds that the judge was under several inquiries at the time for allegedly unethical or unlawful behavior. on 29 august 2007 the other two judges, referring to article 19(1)(4) of the civil procedure law (see paragraph 16 below), dismissed the objections. they noted that the applicant’s doubts were based only on an assumption and that the objection did not contain evidence allowing to conclude that the applicant’s doubts about the impartiality of judge o.d.j. in the particular case were reasonable in the terms of the above provision.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in rheine. as a preliminary measure he was confined to a psychiatric hospital. he was informed that this was not possible on the spot. he was then returned to the forensic hospital where, when in contact with others, he showed no more signs of agitation. on friday 21 december 2012 the applicant received a letter from the court‑appointed lawyer, dated 19 december 2012, who advised him as follows:“... you already announced immediately after the hearing that you wanted to appeal against the court’s decision and also to mandate new defence counsel. we respect your wish for new counsel and hereby terminate the mandate. thus, the rheine district court would be competent. according to article 299 § 2 of the ccp, in order to meet the time-limit it suffices if the record is taken within the time-limit. this was done on the following day (saturday 22 december). on 8 january 2013 the regional court informed the applicant that his appeal was belated. he explained that the applicant had misunderstood his counsel’s instruction on how to lodge an appeal. on 11 march 2013 the federal prosecutor general observed, inter alia, that:“he [defence counsel] referred to article 299 of the code of criminal procedure by using wording which was not per se wrong but potentially misleading because it could be understood that the appeal on points of law might be lodged either (by the applicant himself) with the record of the rheine district court’s registry or in writing with the same court.” it may be that the oral instructions on the right to appeal given after the delivery of the judgment were correct and complete. communication between the applicant and his defence counsel was impossible. the applicant was obviously in an exceptional mental state. on 24 april 2013 the federal court of justice rejected the applicant’s request for reinstatement and consequently dismissed his appeal on points of law as inadmissible because it had been lodged out of time. an accused who misunderstood the oral instruction and therefore lodged an appeal out of time was himself responsible for this. according to the federal court of justice, the content of this letter was not misleading but reflected correctly the applicable law. there was nothing to show that the applicant might not have understood the oral instructions by the presiding judge for mental health reasons. the applicant filed a constitutional complaint to the federal constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in west drayton. she was granted bail pending a further hearing set for 7 february 2005. she then absconded for a period of over two years. she was convicted and on 12 december 2007 she was sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment. on 12 august 2008 the applicant appealed against the decision to deport her. she was taking medication and if necessary could be admitted to hospital on a voluntary basis. in these representations the applicant claimed that she faced a real risk of treatment contrary to articles 3 and 8 of the convention if she were deported to nigeria due to her mental health status and the poor standard of treatment facilities in the destination country. she then added a further challenge to the refusal to treat her representations as a fresh claim for asylum. around this time professor k examined the applicant once more and produced a report dated 1 march 2010. she assessed the applicant’s risk of harming children as grade three on a scale of zero to three. this gave the applicant a summary risk to herself of two and to others of three. the applicant was readmitted to the acute assessment wing on 12 march 2010, following a further attempt to self-harm. furthermore, they considered her to be in an extremely stressful situation, given her detention and the ongoing care proceedings. although that risk could only be contained by constant supervision, this need could be met at yarl’s wood. on 13 august 2010 the judicial review application was dismissed by a high court judge, who found that while the secretary of state had failed to take into account paragraph 55.10 of her own policy, enforcement instructions and guidance (see paragraphs 58-63 below), when considering the justification for the applicant’s detention between 8 august 2008 and 28 april 2010 (“the first period of detention”), that failure had not caused any damage since the decision to detain would have been the same even had the policy been correctly considered and applied. the judge therefore dismissed the claim for false imprisonment. in this regard, he noted that, taking an analytical approach to each of the periods of detention following 8 august 2008, the applicant’s detention was explicable by steps she had taken, or failed to take (for example, cooperation in relation to emergency travel documents, and the conflicting advice in the hands of the authorities as to the effect of detention on her mental condition and the possibility of treating it while in detention). the initial conduct of the claimant was her commission of the offence on her son. relevant to the decision to deport and to detain pending deportation were her conviction for absconding and her conviction for fraud. on 6 july 2011, shortly before the court of appeal hearing, the applicant was released on bail by the asylum and immigration tribunal.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in kaisheim prison. the applicant has been continuously addicted to heroin since 1973, when he was aged 17. he has also been suffering from hepatitis c since 1975 and has been hiv-positive since 1988. he has been considered 100% disabled and has been receiving an employment disability pension since 2001. on 3 june 2009 the augsburg regional court convicted the applicant of drug trafficking, sentenced him to three years and six months’ imprisonment and, having regard to a previous conviction, to another two years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant was still not provided with substitution treatment for his heroin addiction. in a decision dated 25 june 2010 the munich court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. he had secretly consumed methadone at the clinic and lacked motivation to lead a drug-free life. the applicant was transferred back to kaisheim prison on 30 april 2010. during his detention, the pain in his feet, neck and spine became such that, at least during certain periods, he spent most of his time in bed. having regard to the applicant’s chronic pain linked to his long-term drug consumption and polyneuropathy, he suggested that the prison medical service reconsider the possibility of drug substitution treatment. the applicant also obtained, on his request, an opinion drawn up by an external doctor specialised in drug addiction treatment (b.) dated 27 july 2011, on the basis of the written findings of doctor h. and the kaisheim prison doctor’s and authorities’ findings and statements, but without having been able to examine the applicant in person. the applicant claimed that drug substitution treatment was the only adequate treatment for his medical condition. the applicant claimed that, as confirmed by doctor h., the serious chronic neurological pain from which he was suffering could be considerably alleviated by drug substitution treatment, as had been the case during his previous substitution treatment. while undergoing such treatment previously, he had been able to lead a relatively normal life and to complete training as a software engineer. furthermore, referring to doctor b.’s opinion, the applicant claimed that he was in need of interferon therapy in order to treat his hepatitis c infection. after three years in detention, he no longer suffered from physical withdrawal symptoms. with regard to the applicant’s social rehabilitation and treatment (sections 2 and 3 of the bavarian execution of sentences act, see paragraph 27 below), the prison authorities added that the main reason for which addicts underwent drug substitution therapy was to prevent them from becoming impoverished and from becoming involved in drug-related criminality. the prison doctors of kaisheim prison had sufficient training to decide on the medical necessity of drug substitution therapy, irrespective of the fact that drug substitution therapies might never have been used in that prison. on 10 september 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court.
the first applicant, born in 1953, is the sister of the second applicant, born in 1946, the aunt of the third applicant, born in 1984, and the daughter of the fourth applicant, born in 1920. the fourth applicant having died in january 2013, the first applicant expressed the wish to pursue the proceedings in her stead. crashed into the static aircraft display site where there were numerous spectators, where it exploded. according to the applicants, one of the girls had a gold earring missing. on various dates several concurrent investigations were opened to establish the circumstances of the accident, including investigation by a special government commission set up for this purpose, the ministry of defence, the lviv city council, the prosecutor’s office, and sknyliv tragedy, a non-governmental organisation founded by survivors of the accident and those who had lost relatives at the air show. stationed in mirgorod, as the aerobatic performance director. on arrival at the sknyliv aerodrome, the pilots immediately started the performance, without taking any time to familiarise themselves with the site, which was new to them. he made a technical mistake in its performance and, as the second pilot did not intervene when appropriate, the pilots lost control of the aircraft and it started falling. in addition, colonel‑general v.s., the air force commander-in-chief, was also dismissed from the military service on disciplinary grounds, and the new air force commander-in-chief was instructed to impose disciplinary sanctions on “other officers guilty of breaches of duty during the preparation and staging of the air show”. ’s piloting techniques by s., a civil aviation pilot, who had lost family members at the sknyliv air show. similarly to the reports produced by the governmental authorities, the authors of this report concluded that the immediate cause of the crash was error by the first pilot in performing a manoeuvre, which had been neither envisaged by his mission order nor practised by him before the show, while the second pilot and ground crew did not take the opportunity to intervene in respect of the first pilot’s conduct. finally, the report also attributed part of the responsibility for the accident to the local municipal and regional authorities, which had disengaged themselves from any safety-related and emergency-prevention planning as well as to the civil aviation authorities (the ukraviatrans and ukraviarukh state agencies) for giving authorisations for the air space to be used in breach of the relevant procedural rules. on 15 april 2003 the group produced its report, in which it concurred with the earlier findings made by the special commission and other entities concerning the principal causes of the accident. on 11 june 2003 the investigation obtained a conclusion by these two experts, in which they reported of numerous shortcomings in the air show organisation. who directed the flight, had the proper clearance, experience, and qualifications; and there was no assessment of the quality of the first pilot’s piloting technique during the training flight in ozerne on 24 july 2002. 249 of the deputy minister of defence on 25 december 1998 (настанова по виконанню польотів в авіації збройних сил україни, нвп-99); air force navigation service guidelines of the armed forces of ukraine, enacted by order no. of the 14th corps flight safety service likewise asserted that he had properly performed his service duties and had prepared sufficient documentation concerning flight safety during the air show. and the pilots of his doubts concerning its safety. moreover, prior to the flight, he had discussed the disputed manoeuvre with colonel y.y. ( on 11 june 2008 the central region military court of appeal, sitting in a panel of three military judges and acting as a first-instance court, acquitted all four defendants of the above charges, largely relying on the expert conclusions of 8 february and 11 may 2005.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1975 respectively and live in p. 7. the applicants lived with their parents in a, croatia. said that on 6 january 1992 at about 7 p.m. police officer x had asked him, r.b., ’s attention had been diverted by a vehicle which had come from the opposite direction and he had stopped it. told him that he had not had the time to fully examine the vehicle but that he had seen that the driver and the person in the front passenger seat were dressed in the uniforms of the civil police. and that they had left them in a village. had attempted to take it from him, resulting in a commotion in which the weapon had fired and killed s.c. on 9 january 1992 the a police lodged a criminal complaint with the b public prosecutor against x and y, alleging that on 6 january 1992 at 10.30 p.m. in j, a village near the town of a, they had killed s.c. on 19 september 2000 the c police interviewed m.m., at the entrance to village j. at about 9 p.m. he and m.m. he had heard that x had moved to bosnia and herzegovina. on 20 january 2004 the ministry of justice asked the c county court for the relevant documents with a view to seeking y’s extradition from the united states authorities. on 10 may 2007 the c county court sent the requested information and documents to the ministry of justice. they asked for all documents related to any criminal offences y might have committed. in 2002 the ministry of justice agreed that an international arrest warrant should be issued in respect of x. 33. on 18 february 2009 the serbian authorities heard evidence from x. he said that the criminal proceedings against him and y for the murder of s.c. had been instituted in 1992 in the b municipal court and that they had been acquitted. on 9 march 2007 the c municipal court granted the applicants’ claim and awarded them each hrk 300,000 (about eur 40,000), finding that the killing of the applicants’ parents had been an act of terror. this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 june 2012. furthermore, the act of damage in the present case was not carried out with the sole aim of seriously disturbing public order (this being the aim characteristic of an act of terror) but also involved the use of force, killing and expulsion of the civilian population on that territory with the aim of destroying the internal security and stability of the republic of croatia and preventing its lawful bodies from functioning.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in gaziantep. in 2010 the applicant and his family left uzbekistan to escape the oppression they faced on account of their religious beliefs. after spending some time in kazakhstan, in 2010 they entered turkey by legal means. the applicant’s wife was granted a residence permit in the city of gaziantep pending her asylum request, but the applicant was not able to obtain one as he could not pay the requisite fee for the permit. the applicant, therefore, resided illegally in gaziantep. he was also banned from entering the country for five years. on 5 may 2012 the applicant lodged an objection to his repatriation and lodged a new asylum request. the applicant claimed that the detention facility at sabiha gökçen airport where he had been kept for sixty-eight days between 4 may and 10 july 2012 had been a room of about 20 square metres and that, while the numbers had fluctuated, the room had accommodated up to fifteen people at times. all other passengers in his situation had either been released or repatriated after one or two days of detention at most. the applicant further alleged that the overcrowding of the removal centre had led to hygiene problems. the building had been infested with insects and there had been frequent outbreaks of contagious diseases. the quality and quantity of the food provided had also been fairly poor. the government submitted that during the applicant’s stay between 4 may and 10 july 2012, the number of detainees had never exceeded five. they did not, however, submit any documents in support of that submission, such as a list of the detainees kept in the detention facility during the relevant period. they did not, however, submit the registers recording the occupation rates during the period in question. as for hygiene standards in the facility, there had been six cleaning staff working full time at the removal centre, and the building had been disinfected at certain times. no other furniture, such as tables and chairs, was present in the rooms; there were blankets on the beds in only one of the rooms and the other room had no bedding at all. a television was available on each floor in the cafeteria. moreover, a metal sit‑up bench and an exercise bike were shown in the photograph of the hallway. there were no men amongst these detainees – only women and children.
he was detained at the gaziantep foreigners’ removal centre (“the gaziantep removal centre”) at the time of the events giving rise to this application. in 2000 the applicant fled to turkey because he was being searched for by the russian authorities. it appears that shortly before his escape, he had lost his right leg in a bomb attack that struck a mosque in chechnya. subsequent to his departure from russia, criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant by the russian authorities before the cerkessk city court on the following charges: (i) participation in an armed insurrection and membership of an armed organisation with the purpose of overthrowing the constitutional order and violating the territorial integrity of the russian federation and (ii) possessing firearms and ammunition. it appears that the cerkessk city court issued a detention order in respect of the applicant in his absence. on 24 january 2008 the applicant was taken into police custody in istanbul in the context of an operation against al-qaeda. he was subsequently taken to gaziantep, where he was placed in pre-trial detention at the gaziantep h-type prison upon the order of the gaziantep magistrate’s court. on an unspecified date criminal proceedings were commenced against the applicant before the adana assize court. on 28 january 2009 the adana assize court ordered the applicant’s release from the gaziantep h-type prison. there is no further information in the case file as regards the outcome of the criminal proceedings. following his release from prison on 28 january 2009, the applicant was placed in detention at the gaziantep removal centre, which is attached to the gaziantep security directorate. on an unspecified date the russian authorities requested the extradition of the applicant. on 3 april 2009 the gaziantep assize court refused that request, holding that the offences in question were of a political nature and that under international and national laws, alleged perpetrators of such offences could not be extradited. on 23 october 2009 the applicant applied to the gaziantep governor’s office with a request for asylum. on 26 april 2010 the applicant was notified that his request had been rejected. the applicant’s requests were dismissed by the ministry. the applicant’s objection to that decision was further dismissed by the ministry on 10 june 2010. on 24 july 2010 the applicant was released from the gaziantep removal centre, on the condition that he leave turkey within fifteen days. it appears that the applicant left turkey shortly after his release. according to the information in the case file, the applicant met with his lawyer a total of nine times between 3 march 2009 and 27 july 2010 during his detention at the gaziantep removal centre.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in stari bar, montenegro. at the relevant time he was a professional basketball player. the club had the status of a citizens’ association. on 17 february 1998 the novi sad municipal court (hereinafter “the municipal court”) ruled in favour of the applicant, ordering vojvodina bfc (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay him, within fifteen days, the sum of 110,550 dinars (rsd – approximately 10,000 euros (eur) at the time) and rsd 8,500 (approximately eur 730) in costs, together with statutory interest. the judgment became final on an unspecified date in 1998. following a request by the applicant on 15 october 1998 for enforcement, on 19 october 1998 the municipal court issued an enforcement order. on 25 december 1998 the applicant informed the court that the debtor did not have sufficient funds in its bank account and proposed that the judgment be enforced by the sale of the debtor’s immovable assets situated on the premises of the vojvodina sports and business centre. on 17 march 1999 an enforcement order to that effect was issued. in the meantime, a new basketball club, nis-vojvodina, was formed. on 25 december 2002 the central bank in novi sad informed the court that the debtor’s bank account had been frozen. on 14 march 2003 the applicant informed the court of another bank account in the debtor’s name. on 14 july 2003 nis-vojvodina appealed against the enforcement order of 12 may 2003. it claimed not to be the debtor’s legal successor. on 24 june 2004 nis-vojvodina filed a submission, denying any connection with the applicant’s debtor. on 19 october 2004 the municipal court asked the applicant to comment on nis-vojvodina’s submission and propose another method of enforcement. as the applicant failed to do so, on 11 january 2005 the municipal court suspended (obustavio) the enforcement against nis-vojvodina. in the proceedings that followed, the enforcement judge, relying on the ministry’s information note of 30 may 2005, found that nis-vojvodina was not the debtor’s legal successor and transferred the case file to the panel on 1 september 2005. on 16 march 2006 the panel upheld the decision of 11 january 2005, finding that there were no grounds to continue enforcement against nis-vojvodina. on 17 september 2012 the debtor paid the applicant one fifth of the above-mentioned sum, that is to say rsd 245,866.48 (approximately eur 2,000). there is no information in the case file as to whether the applicant received any payments thereafter.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. and an unidentified person impersonating sh. had their marriage registered in the tambov region. ’s title to the flat were registered by the moscow city committee for registration of real estate transactions (the “city registration committee”). ’s activities in respect of the flat and on 5 may 2005 the golovinskiy district court of moscow found him guilty of fraud and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment. on 30 august 2005 the district court granted claims lodged by the prosecutor on behalf of the city authorities and ordered the annulment of un. ’s marriage certificate and the privatisation agreement, and the revocation of his title to the flat. the parties did not appeal against that judgment and it became final. was released in 2011, having served a prison sentence for fraud, the city authorities had not yet informed the city registration committee of the judgments of 5 may and 30 august 2005. was therefore still officially registered as the flat’s owner and on 28 october 2011 he sold the flat to s. on 8 november 2011 the city registration committee registered the sale agreement and s.’s title to the flat. on 22 december 2011 s. sold the flat to the applicant. the sale agreement was registered by the city registration committee on 29 december 2011. the applicant moved in and resided in the flat with his girlfriend. on 30 october 2012 the district court examined the case. on 26 july 2013 the district bailiff’s service instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 30 october 2012. according to the applicant, he was evicted on 18 november 2013. on 28 february 2014 the judgment became final. on an unspecified date the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 22 january 2014. on 17 june 2014 the proceedings were discontinued as it had been impossible to establish s.’s whereabouts.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in diyarbakır. at the time of the events in question the applicant was the vice‑president of hak-par (hak ve özgürlükler partisi – the rights and freedoms party). on 4 january 2004 the party held its first ordinary congress at a restaurant in ankara, where the applicant was elected by the delegates to act as the meeting’s chairman. on 28 february 2005 a public prosecutor at the ankara public prosecutor’s office filed an indictment with the ankara criminal court of first instance against thirteen members of hak-par, including the applicant, for acting in violation of section 81 (c) of law no. 2820 during the congress on the grounds, inter alia, that there had been banners in kurdish and that most of the speeches given by the delegates had been in kurdish. the applicant acknowledged before the first-instance court that he had not intervened as the chairman when certain delegates had spoken in kurdish. in this connection, he submitted that, as a founder member of hak‑par, he believed that kurdish should be used in all areas of life; that those who spoke kurdish were speaking in their mother tongue; and that he believed that it was neither legal nor ethical for him to intervene to force people to speak in a language other than their mother tongue. he maintained that such speeches could not have constituted an offence, when taking into account laws that had been enacted in compliance with the conditions for membership of the european union, and the provisions of the european convention on human rights. in this connection, the applicant also submitted that the relevant provisions of law no. on 7 december 2005 the first-instance court dismissed an application from the defendants to suspend the proceedings and transfer the case to the constitutional court for examination of the compatibility of the relevant provisions with the constitution. on 14 february 2007 the ankara criminal court of first instance convicted the applicant of the charges. in particular, the court considered that the applicant had, despite warnings from a government superintendent present at the congress, continued to allow certain delegates to give their speeches in kurdish, in breach of section 81 (c) of law no. the applicant was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment. on 23 march 2011 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court on the ground that the latter had failed to give any consideration to whether the conditions for suspending the delivery of the judgment against the defendants, pursuant to article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met. on 6 december 2011 the ankara criminal court of first instance ordered that the criminal proceedings against the applicant and the other defendants be terminated, on the ground that the statutory time-limit prescribed under domestic law had expired.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in moscow. on 1 february 1994 f. bought a 19.3 square metre flat at 22-2-68 nagatinskaya naberezhnaya, moscow. on 23 july 1997 f. died intestate and without heirs. according to the government, his flat was locked and sealed by the housing maintenance company. on an unspecified date n. brought a civil action seeking recognition as f.’s heir-at-law. the city of moscow authorities took part in the proceedings as a respondent. on 8 february 2010 the simonovskiy district court of moscow granted her claim and recognised her title to f.’s flat. the judgment came into force on 19 february 2010. on 14 may 2010 n. sold the flat to k. the transaction was registered by the federal registration service. on 24 june 2010 the moscow city court quashed the judgment of 8 february 2010 on appeal and dismissed n.’s claims. on 6 july 2010 k. sold the flat to the applicant. on 21 july 2010 the federal registration service registered the sale agreement and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant. on 8 november 2012 the district court granted the housing department’s claims. it ordered the transfer of title to the flat to the city and the requisition of the flat from the applicant. the court also considered that the applicant had not demonstrated due diligence when buying the flat from k. and could not be recognised as a bona fide purchaser. on 4 february 2013, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 8 november 2012. on 15 april 2015 the district court granted the housing department’s claims against the applicant and ordered her eviction. according to the government, the bailiff failed to establish k.’s whereabouts or locate any of his assets. the judgment in the applicant’s favour remains unenforced. the enforcement proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in ankara. attempted to light the wood-burning stove used to heat the office area by pouring petrol onto it. they reported that she was not in a condition to make a statement regarding the incident. m.y described the incident as noted in paragraph 5 above. for starting a fire and causing bodily harm by negligence. relying on the inspectors’ findings regarding the lack of precautions necessary for the prevention of fires in the deceased’s workplace, on 18 april 2003 the applicant lodged a new complaint with the ankara public prosecutor’s office against the owner of the company, k.n.y. it appears from the information in the case file, however, that the on-site inspection was carried out on 12 april 2004. on 19 april 2004 the ankara assize court requested that the forensic medicine institute issue a report examining whether a causal link existed between serpil i̇mren’s death and the fire at her workplace. the defendants appealed against this judgment. 5237) that had entered into force in june 2005. on 17 november 2006 the ankara assize court convicted the defendants once again as charged and issued the same sentence and fine. 5271), as amended on 6 december 2006, was applicable in the circumstances. the labour court accepted that request and on 24 october 2007 it appointed three experts. on 28 november 2007 the experts delivered their report, in which they found that the accused company and its owner, k.n.y., who was not a party to the proceedings before the labour court. on 15 july 2009 the ankara 7th labour court decided to join the case against k.n.y. between 14 april 2004 and 28 december 2010 the labour court held twenty-three hearings. at its first hearing following the termination of the criminal proceedings, which was held on 3 may 2011, the labour court ordered the appointment of an expert to determine the applicant’s pecuniary damage as a result of her daughter’s death. on 4 june 2014 the labour court delivered its judgment on the case. it rejected the applicant’s claims in respect of pecuniary damage, except for funeral costs in the amount of 1,306 turkish liras (try) (approximately 455 euros (eur)), plus interest (try 40 to be paid by k.n.y.
the applicant was born in 1970 and currently lives in london. on calling the court cashier, she had been informed of the order’s alleged service on 7 november 2008. in the afternoon she had bade farewell to her counsel. she had found neither a penal order nor a notice that a penal order had been deposited in another place. on 6 february 2009 the applicant’s counsel supplemented the applicant’s submissions. the applicant’s husband had arrived shortly before them and had been waiting for them, together with the applicant’s mother. at around 3.30 p.m. they had all left the house. she had immediately checked the contents. there had been no official letter from a court. such a letter would have stood out and would therefore have been noticed by the persons present, as official court letters came in bright yellow envelopes. in december 2008, hence shortly after the alleged delivery, the company had had to register as insolvent. the court found that the record of service had probative value for the fact that the penal order had been put into the applicant’s mailbox by the courier on 7 november 2008 (article 418 of the code of civil procedure, see paragraph 29 below). in accordance with the settled case-law, this could only be disproved if facts were presented that convinced the court that there was no possibility that the facts certified by the record of service were correct. the district court concluded that the courier had testified that she had always served the official court mail in accordance with the rules. it further noted that the applicant had not mentioned all the persons who had allegedly been present when she checked her mail in her first submission of 27 december 2008. moreover, it was not in accordance with general experience in life for someone to check his mail in front of all his family members. on 22 april 2009 the applicant, represented by her lawyer, appealed against the decision of the frankfurt am main district court. she claimed, in particular, that according to articles in a national newspaper, the unreliability of the postal service company j. had been revealed, inter alia, by the oldenburg court of appeal and the kiel regional court and that an aachen local newspaper had reported that court mail had been found in a refuse shed. the court did not have to decide whether j. company had been reliable in all cases. it was likely that the penal order had been hidden among other mail and had probably inadvertently been thrown away or simply ignored.
the applicant was born in 1945 and is currently detained in hmp long lartin. the defence were informed of the application and given the opportunity to oppose it. the trial judge therefore made the order requested. it was accepted by the prosecution and the defence that the main issue in the case was whether or not the applicant had intended to import drugs into the united kingdom. they also tried to reach him through his employer but were told that he was on leave and could not be contacted. two weeks into the trial, when it became clear that vo would not testify, the trial judge directed the prosecution to contact him again. in a letter to vo, the prosecution offered various options to him, including giving evidence via live video link from his home in belgium. he stated that:“it was clear for [sic] all the files that the destination of the load was england. he also gave evidence of his previous dealings with “david keen”. however, they confirmed that they had revisited their duty of disclosure and had nothing further to add. there were also three witnesses from guyana who identified the applicant as david keen and faxes in the name of david keen sent from the applicant’s address. he continued to deny the main count on the indictment, which concerned the attempted importation of drugs to the united kingdom. the applicant relied heavily on the evidence of one of the shipping agents in guyana, aa, who recalled a conversation in which the applicant told him that the drums which were later found to contain drugs were to be unloaded at antwerp. those licences had been returned by premier molasses using registered delivery and replaced with the appropriate licences for the netherlands. instead, the trial judge re-read the relevant part of his summing-up summarising those statements. first, it was argued that the admission of vo’s statements had violated article 6 of the convention and, in particular, that the trial judge would never have allowed the statements to be read had he been aware that bt’s evidence regarding the “n” telephone call would cast doubt on vo’s reliability. in the statement the journalist indicated that when she first tried to enter the courtroom, she was told by a court official that the trial had finished. however, after remonstrating with the official she was allowed to enter. when she asked if anyone else had complained about the arrangements, she was told that she was the first person to try to attend the trial. the court was therefore not satisfied that there would have been any positive advantage to the defence in calling vo and thus concluded that there was no arguable basis for criticising the admission of his statements.
on various dates, criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicants in uzbekistan on suspicion of sedition; of creating, leading and of being members of a religious fundamentalist, extremist, separatist or other prohibited organisation; and, in respect of the first applicant, of the distribution of material threatening public order and causing incitement to ethnic or religious hatred. they left uzbekistan on various dates and eventually arrived in ukraine. on 15 june 2010 the first applicant was arrested by the ukrainian police as a person appearing on the international list of wanted persons. on 9 august 2010 the kyiv city court of appeal upheld that order. on 14 december 2009 the unhcr recognised the second applicant as a refugee under its mandate. on 23 december 2009 the migration authorities dismissed the second applicant’s application for asylum in ukraine as being groundless. on 2 july 2010 the bila tserkva court ordered the applicant’s provisional arrest for up to thirty days, until the receipt of an extradition request. on 28 july 2010 the unhcr issued a certificate stating that it had recognised the applicant as a refugee. on 29 january 2012 the applicant was released. in his submissions to the kyiv-svyatoshyn court, the applicant opposed the police request on the grounds, in particular, that the proceedings concerning his request for asylum were still pending. extradition inquiry in respect of the first three applicants and applications for asylum in sweden and the united states of america 37. on 29 and 14 july 2010 similar requests were sent concerning the second and third applicants. on 3 august 2010 the security service informed the gpo that it had no information concerning the details of the first and third applicants’ activities in uzbekistan. on 8 april 2011 the gpo wrote to the us embassy. on 5 july and 2 september 2011 the gpo again requested information from the us embassy, indicating that no response to its previous requests had been received. it requested assistance in arranging such a visit. the unhcr added that it could not facilitate the second applicant’s resettlement because he was in a polygamous marriage. on 10 and 20 february 2012 the gpo decided not to extradite the third and first applicants to uzbekistan in view of the fact that they had been granted asylum in the us and sweden respectively. he was released on the same day but re-arrested on 6 july 2010. on 5 august 2010 the applicant was released as no extradition request had arrived by that date.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in ikaria. on 24 september 2012 he interrupted the deferral. 3421/2005) to explain the nature of his conscientious objection. he stated that his objection was based on moral values stemming from the religious education he had received from his mother, a jehovah’s witness, and on his own approach to life, involving the rejection of anything linked to war, violence or destruction in all its forms. the following is an extract from his interview:“question: tell us about your beliefs. question: so you are citing religious reasons to justify your refusal to perform armed service. my behaviour is not yet completely suitable. i have decided to get baptised, but to do so i still need to make further progress and study the scriptures and the word of god in more detail. question: how have you come to the conclusion that god has nothing to do with war? question: have you ever witnessed a violent incident, and if so, how did you react? question: so you acknowledge that there is a lawful authority and that some entities may potentially use force where necessary? answer: yes, i acknowledge lawful authority. i believe that people should submit to lawful authority. but there is a difference between submitting to it and becoming part of it. answer: no; for me, religious reasons take priority over reasons linked to morals ...” 10. on 27 may 2013 the special committee decided unanimously to propose that the applicant’s application be rejected. secondly, the applicant argued that the minister’s decision had not contained sufficient reasons, seeing that (a) it had incorrectly mentioned that he had cited religious grounds without being an adherent of a religion; and (b) the members of the committee had displayed prejudice by asserting that conscientious objectors had to be activists and anti-authority or to publicise their views, whereas the law did not lay down any such conditions. with regard to his second argument, the supreme administrative court explained that, after examining whether the applicant was a follower of a religion that prohibited the use of force, whether he had taken part in non-violent movements and whether his philosophy of life prevented him from handling weapons, the committee had concluded that his conscientious objection was not accompanied by corresponding behaviour. on the contrary, it was necessary to provide evidence of active behaviour over a certain period, but the applicant had failed to do so. on 11 july 2014 the applicant applied to the mytilene administrative court to have the fine set aside.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. they have served in a variety of roles, mainly in the infantry but also as engineers and in signals and logistics units. in comparison, other soldiers in the british army are entitled to serve for twenty-two years. (a)  the 2004 amendments to the immigration rules 13. approximately 90 per cent of the 2,230 eligible gurkha soldiers have since applied successfully to settle in the united kingdom with their qualifying dependants. the tripartite agreement provided that the pensions of gurkhas serving in the british army would also be set by reference to the rates applied by india to indian soldiers. in 1949 the gurkha pension scheme (“gps”) was established by royal warrant and applied the former indian army pensions code to gurkhas serving in the brigade. pensions were immediately payable upon retirement and could not be deferred. with regard to pensions, the review concluded that on balance the gps was more suitable than the afps to support the life-cycle of the great majority of gurkhas up until july 1997. however, moving the brigade’s base to the united kingdom and the subsequent change to the immigration rules had altered the previously valid assumption that gurkhas would retire in nepal. gurkhas who retired before 1 july 1997 did not qualify for the gott. the terms of any transfer were such that the accrued rights to a pension for service after 1 july 1997 would transfer into the afps scheme on a year-for-year basis. it represents broadly the value of the pre-1997 benefits accrued in the gps. his pension continues to be governed by the gps and, as such, is valued at approximately fifty per cent of that which a british soldier of equivalent rank would receive for the same period and type of service. the applicants were granted permission to pursue their judicial review application. on 11 january 2010 the high court dismissed the application on all three grounds. in respect of the discrimination-on-grounds-of-nationality challenge the high court considered that it was bound by r (purja and others) v. ministry of defence [2003] ewca civ 1345 (summarised at paragraphs 41 – 44 below), in which the court of appeal had ruled that gurkhas with service before 1 july 1997 were in a markedly different position from other soldiers serving in the british army before that date. the applicants were granted permission to appeal to the court of appeal. on 13 october 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the applicants’ appeal. in respect of the age-discrimination claim the court, relying on the strasbourg court’s judgment in neill v. the united kingdom, no.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently serving a prison sentence in ukraine. on 29 october 2004 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder, robbery and attempted murder. he remained in police custody until 17 january 2005. the applicant alleged that during his stay in police custody between 29 and 31 october 2004 he had been tortured by unspecified police officers, as a result of which he had confessed to having committed the crimes of which he was suspected. from that day onwards the rules applicable to this latter category of detainees had also been applied to the applicant. the applicant did not appeal against that ruling. on 14 december 2005 the applicant was placed in sokalska correctional colony no. according to the applicant, the conditions of his detention in the colony were debasing. in particular, he alleged that the drinking water and food had been of poor quality, that he had not received adequate medical assistance and that he had been subjected to psychological pressure by the colony staff. the applicant raised those allegations before the prosecutors. according to the medical information submitted by the applicant, while in detention he had been medically examined and had been given the necessary treatment. he provided no further details in that regard. during his first interrogation, on 30 october 2004, the applicant had the assistance of a lawyer of his own choosing. on an unspecified date the applicant hired a new lawyer, who continued to defend him during the investigation and trial. the applicant’s mother also took part in the proceedings as the applicant’s representative. in the course of the investigation and trial, the applicant admitted that he had committed the murders and the attempted murder of which he was suspected. subsequently, the criminal case was referred to the kyiv regional court of appeal for trial. in his appeal, the applicant’s lawyer contested the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant had committed the murders with the aim of stealing the victims’ property. on 4 august 2005 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 24 march 2005 and it accordingly entered into force on that date. in a letter dated 19 january 2006, a court of appeal judge informed the applicant that his request had been refused, pointing out that the procedure governing applications to the european court of human rights did not require the submission of the documents of which the applicant had sought copies.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in krasnoyarsk. on 16 march 2001 a senior investigator of the krasnoyarsk regional prosecutor’s office charged the applicant with large-scale trafficking in firearms and ammunition and issued a warrant for his arrest. on 3 june 2002 and in view of the additional charges brought against the applicant another arrest warrant was issued. this decision did not set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention and it has never been served on him. on 27 september 2003 the applicant was arrested in monaco and on 29 april 2005 he was extradited to russia. he was placed in remand prison iz-77/4 in moscow with a view to a subsequent transfer to krasnoyarsk. before his final admission to krasnoyarsk prison, the applicant was held in several different remand prisons and repeatedly complained about his unlawful detention. on 11 may 2005 criminal proceedings against the applicant were resumed. on the same day the investigator from the krasnoyarsk prosecutor’s office initiated a request for extension of the applicant’s detention. the matter was heard in the presence of the investigator, the prosecutor ‒ who supported the application for extension ‒ and counsel mr v., who left the issue of the applicant’s detention for determination by the court. on 8 june 2005 he arrived at krasnoyarsk prison iz-24/1. on 24 june 2005 the applicant filed a statement of appeal. he submitted in particular that his detention had been contrary to the requirements of the russian constitution and the new code of criminal procedure, that the arrest warrants of 16 march 2001 and 3 june 2002 had never been served on him or his counsel, and that the detention hearing had been held in his absence. on 17 august 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld this detention order on appeal, in the presence of only the prosecutor. on 21 may 2007, after two rounds of proceedings, the regional court found the applicant guilty of attempted murder, causing grievous bodily harm and leadership of a criminal enterprise and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment. on 19 february 2008 the supreme court upheld the conviction. he alleged that following his conviction on 9 february 2006, he had not been allowed to have any visits from his relatives. on 28 december 2006 the district court declared his complaint inadmissible, finding that the matters complained of were outside the court’s jurisdiction. on 27 february 2007 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the inadmissibility decision at final instance. on 13 march 2007 the applicant had a meeting with his mother.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in nizhniy tagil, the sverdlovsk region. on 14 october 2005 the applicant voluntarily came to the police to report that he had stabbed his girlfriend ms o. to death. on the same date he was charged with her murder. on 15 october 2005 the applicant was placed in custody in remand prison no. on 15 november 2005 the applicant underwent an outpatient psychiatric expert examination, which established that he had committed manslaughter while in the state of temporary incapacity («состояние физиологического аффекта»). on 9 december 2005 the investigation file was transferred for trial to the leninskiy district court of nizhniy tagil (“the district court”). on an unspecified date the district court appointed counsel to the applicant, mr k. 11. on 28 march 2006 the district court ordered another outpatient psychiatric expert examination of the applicant upon the prosecutor’s request and ordered that the measure of restraint remain unvaried. as mr k. was on leave, the district court appointed mr l. as the applicant’s counsel. the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 2 september 2006. on 29 june 2006 the applicant was served with a copy of the detention order of 2 june 2006. on 7 july 2006 the district court ordered that the applicant be subject to an inpatient psychiatric expert examination and ordered that the measure of restraint remain unvaried. the delay in examining the appeal was not explained. on 15 january 2007 the district court granted the request noting that the applicant had been served with a copy of the detention order “untimely”. the applicant was notified of the outcome of the appeal hearing on 5 april 2007. on 30 march 2007 the regional court examined the applicant’s statement of appeal of 23 january 2007 against the detention order of 24 august 2006 in the absence of the applicant or any counsel on his behalf and dismissed it. the date on which the applicant was served with a copy of the appeal decision of 8 december 2006 is at dispute between the parties. according to the government, the applicant was served with it on 7 june 2007. to support their claim, they enclosed a copy of acknowledgement of receipt dated 7 july 2006 stating that the applicant had been served on that date with a copy of a ruling of 7 july 2006. on 2 april 2013 the cherdynskiy district court of the perm region released the applicant on parole.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived in magnitogorsk, in the chelyabinsk region until his arrest. on 28 june 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a criminal offence. he remained in custody throughout the investigation and trial. on 29 march 2012 the pravoberezhniy district court of magnitogorsk sentenced him to thirteen years and ten months’ imprisonment. in 2012, following a complaint by the applicant of pain in his lower abdomen, he was diagnosed with an enlarged prostate gland and underwent surgery in relation to that condition. two operations were performed in the hospital, but various problematic symptoms relating to his urinary system persisted. his condition was aggravated by a wasting syndrome and paraneoplastic syndrome. on 30 october 2014 a medical panel confirmed his diagnosis, adding a list of secondary illnesses to it. he received painkillers in hospital, but effective medical treatment was unavailable, owing to a lack of the required medication. the acting head of the hospital stated that the applicant could only receive adequate medical treatment in another hospital. the court rejected the applicant’s request for release. it found that he had failed to improve himself, that is to say, the aim of reforming him as a prisoner had not been achieved. to receive it, the applicant only needed a transfer to a different hospital. on 7 april 2015 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the above decision on appeal, having fully endorsed the reasoning of the lower court. on 9 april 2015 the government responded to the court’s letter of 27 march 2015, asserting that the scope and quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in the prison hospital corresponded to his needs. however, two independent doctors summoned by the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of his medical treatment in detention and the compatibility of further detention in the prison hospital with his state of health. over the following months the applicant’s health continued to deteriorate, and the wasting syndrome progressed. at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, mr a. lepekhin, the investigative committee carried out a preliminary inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the applicant’s death, which ended with a decision of 15 october 2015 not to open a criminal case. relevant domestic and international lawmedical care afforded to detainees 27. 30575/08, §§ 55-63, 15 december 2015; amirov v. russia, no.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in volgograd. on 26 october 2002 the applicant was arrested on a charge of murder. on 28 october 2002 the traktorozavodskiy district court of volgograd authorised his pre-trial detention. the applicant remained in custody during the investigation and pending the trial. on 24 november 2003 the volgograd regional court scheduled the trial of the applicant and seven other defendants for 24 december 2003. the court also ruled that the trial was to be held in camera. on 26 april 2005 the volgograd regional court convicted the applicant of murder committed out of national hatred and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 22 february 2006 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the court decided to hear the applicant’s case in his absence. his lawyer was present and made submissions to the court. on 30 august 2010 the applicant was released on parole. on 8 december 2010 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 22 february 2006 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 1 february 2011 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing. the court found that the case had become time-barred under the statute of limitations and discharged the applicant from serving a prison sentence. the applicant’s lawyer was present and made submissions to the court. the applicant did not attend the hearing.
the applicant, mr mokhammed makhmud, is a somali national, who was born in 1979 and currently lives in the united states of america. on an unspecified date the applicant arrived to russia. he was granted refugee status by the russian authorities and applied to the united states authorities for asylum. on 28 may 2012 the applicant was arrested and formally charged. on 31 may 2012 the primorsk district court of st petersburg remanded the applicant in custody. the district court noted that the applicant was a foreign national without a permanent place of residence in russia and official employment and charged with a serious crime. the district court also noted that his application for asylum was pending before the united states consulate in russia. on 1 june 2012 the applicant’s representative appealed. on 19 july 2012 the district court, relying on the same grounds, ordered the applicant’s detention between 28 may and 28 july 2012. in doing so, the district court considered that neither the applicant’s refugee status nor his permanent place of residence and dependent family members (wife and child) justified the application of an alternative preventive measure. on 20 july 2012 the applicant’s counsel appealed. on 3 september 2012 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 20 july 2012, the district court, relying on the same grounds, extended the applicant’s detention. on 18 september 2012 the applicant appealed. on 13 december 2012 the st petersburg city court rejected the applicant’s counsel’s appeal. petersburg city court held a preparatory hearing and again extended the applicant’s detention for another six months. on 14 march 2013 the st petersburg regional court upheld the detention order. on 26 september 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 december 2013. the applicant was in detention pending trial at least until 2 january 2014. on 9 april 2014 the district court found the applicant guilty and convicted him to two years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in naberezhnyye chelny. it appears that the applicant was then taken to the police station and remained there for some time. in the police station, z. compiled an administrative offence record, thereby instituting administrative offence proceedings against the applicant. ...decision: to submit to a courtsignature: deputy chief officer, 5 march 2012” 8. officer z. also issued a written report stating that the applicant had used foul language against passers-by. on 5 march 2012 the police officer submitted the record to his superior, who decided that the case should be transferred to a court for examination. it appears that the file contained the offence record, z.’s report and n.’s statement. it is unclear whether there was any written statement from k. at that time. on 29 march 2012 the justice of the peace held a hearing. it is unclear whether it was a public one. the applicant, who is himself a lawyer, did not appoint a legal representative. he pleaded not guilty and made oral submissions on the charge against him. the judgment read as follows:“the court holds that, while drunk, the defendant used foul language in the presence of other people and thus breached public order ...the defendant’s guilt is confirmed by z.’s report and n.’s testimony ... the use of foul language in a public place is unacceptable and discloses a form of disorderly behaviour ... in the court’s view, the use of aberrant language in a public place in the presence of at least one person constitutes an offence under article 20.1 of the cao. the applicant appealed to the naberezhniye chelny town court. on 16 april 2012 the town court held a hearing. on that date, the appeal decision and the trial judgment became final. the offence of disorderly conduct is constituted by actions breaching public order and peace. the applicant applied to the deputy president of the supreme court of the tatarstan republic for judicial review under article 30.12 of the cao. having examined the file, by decision of 15 june 2012 the deputy president upheld the court decisions of 29 march and 16 april 2012. the applicant did not seek further review before the supreme court of russia.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in belgrade. this interim access order was immediately enforceable. on 9 january 2009 the enforcement judge asked the social care centre to contemplate initiating corrective monitoring of the respondent’s exercise of parental rights in the light of the respondent’s substantial influence on the child’s hostility toward his mother. on 5 october 2009 the competent second-instance court rejected the respondent’s appeals against the fines. on 19 february and 10 may 2010, after the failure of the applicant to pay the fines, the enforcement judge ordered their mandatory enforcement. they observed that the court proceedings, in which the parents acted as opponents, jeopardised the progress achieved to date. on 4 december 2008 the enforcement court ordered enforcement of the interim custody order. the respondent allegedly would not allow the enforcement to take place in the house. the applicant refused forceful removal of the child. the child again refused to be separated from his father. the police explained that they could not forcefully remove the respondent from the premises to enable the social experts and the judge to facilitate a conversation with the child in his absence, since the child was clinging on the father, crying and refusing to let him go. it appears that the applicant was also against the use of force (according to a report to the enforcement judge by the social care centre of 31 march 2010, the applicant refused the possibility of the use of force throughout the proceedings). on 25 march 2011 the enforcement judge formally terminated the enforcement proceedings. the judgment of 24 november 2009 became enforceable on 27 september 2010 and the enforcement order was issued on 29 november 2010. the court noted that the respondent had failed to prepare the child for reunion. on 9 february 2011 the respondent filed a claim for revision of the judgment of 24 november 2009, seeking sole custody of v.s. he also requested an interim custody order to the same effect. on 29 august 2008 and 23 june 2009 the applicant filed criminal complaints against the respondent for parental child abduction and continuous non-compliance with the interim access and custody orders. the applicant subsequently took over the prosecution as subsidiary prosecutor. on 20 june 2012 the first-instance court, in a reasoned judgment, acquitted the respondent. it would appear that they have been meeting every weekend for at least an hour without supervision.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in radishchevo, moscow region. in 1997, as a result of an accident, the applicant’s house had partially burnt and he had to live in the attic, which was not designed for lodging. his civil action against the municipality was dismissed in court. in particular, the applicant, using abusive language, accused them of having taken bribes from the defendant in the amount of usd 30,000, falsification of evidence, terrorism, abuse of power as well as inciting racial and ethnic hatred. on 13 march 2006 the applicant was arrested under suspicion of having committed defamation of a judge and deliberately false denunciation. on 14 march 2006 the meshanskiy district court of moscow (мещанский районный суд г. москвы) remanded the applicant in custody. his detention on remand was subsequently extended at regular intervals by relevant detention orders. сербского) (“the forensic psychiatry centre”). on 20 june 2006 the experts concluded that he showed symptoms of paranoid personality development, was in need of an outpatient supervision and treatment. at the same time they concluded that the applicant was sane, fit to stand trial and highlighted that he had no history of mental disorders. on 1 august 2006 the prosecution transferred the applicant’s case to the moscow city court (московский городской суд) for examination. the city court ordered an additional forensic psychiatric examination by the forensic psychiatry centre. on 21 november 2006 the experts concluded that the applicant was suffering from a chronic mental disorder - paranoid personality development – and needed involuntary treatment in a specialised psychiatric facility. on an unspecified date the city court ordered another forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant by the forensic psychiatry centre. on 7 february 2007 the new report confirmed the findings of the previous report of 21 november 2006. on 20 february 2007 the city court having established the principal facts in respect of the abovementioned offences discontinued criminal proceedings against the applicant due to his insanity. the court referring to the findings and recommendations of the psychiatrists ordered the applicant’s involuntary treatment in a psychiatric hospital. in april 2007 the applicant was transferred from a remand prison to a psychiatric facility. in june 2008 he was released from the hospital.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chișinău. the applicant was a shareholder in a limited liability company created in 2002 with a registered capital of 5,400 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of some 396 euros (eur)). the other half of the shares was owned by a.n. lodged an action with the chişinău economic court seeking the applicant’s exclusion from the list of shareholders on the grounds, inter alia, that he had not paid for his part of the shares, that is to say he had only paid mdl 1,080 instead of mdl 2,700. had not paid his part of the shares until september 2009. on 14 march 2009 the chişinău economic court dismissed the action against the applicant on the grounds that it was time-barred. ’s representative submitted that the applicant had not paid his contribution and that he had been asked to do so every year since the creation of the company in 2002. when asked whether there were any minutes to confirm the contention that the applicant had been summoned to pay his contribution, he answered that he was not aware of any such minutes. the applicant objected that the minutes in question had been forged. he requested that an expert authentication of his signature be carried out. on 9 june 2009 the parties made their closing statements at the hearing before the economic court of appeal. a document containing his submissions was attached to the file. several days after the pronouncement of the judgment, the applicant had access to the case file and noted that the transcript of the hearing of 4 june 2009 did not contain a record of his request for an expert authentication of his signature. he made an official request to have the transcript corrected. however, on 17 june 2009 the economic court of appeal rejected his request. had not relied on the minutes of 20 february 2007 either in his initial action or in his appeal against the judgment 14 march 2009. he had presented them for the first time during the fourth hearing before the economic court of appeal. in the proceedings before the supreme court of justice, a.n. in the new minutes the applicant was recorded as acknowledging that in the previous minutes dated 20 february 2007, the date had been wrongly indicated and that the correct date should have been 23 february 2007. alleging that he had forged the company shareholders’ minutes dated 20 february 2007.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotyped formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. he was arrested on 27 february 2003 on suspicion of sexual assault and was placed in detention. he remained in custody while the crime was investigated and pending trial. on 9 february 2007 the poronayskiy town court of the sakhalin region convicted him of sexual assault and sentenced him to six years and nine months’ imprisonment. on 6 june 2007 the sakhalin regional court upheld his conviction on appeal. he was arrested on 13 march 2007 on suspicion of bribery. on 29 march 2007 he was arrested again and placed in custody. on 20 may 2008 he was convicted of bribery and sentenced to one year and six months’ imprisonment. the third applicant was born on 14 october 1979 and lived, prior to his arrest, in ulybino, novosibirsk region. he was arrested on 15 august 2007 on suspicion of drug dealing. on 3 february 2011 the novosibirsk regional court convicted him of drug dealing and abuse of power, and sentenced him to eight years and six months’ imprisonment. the fourth applicant was born on 29 november 1986 and lived, prior to his conviction, in turukhansk, krasnoyarsk region. on 23 april 2010 he was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 24 april 2010 a court remanded him in custody. the government were asked to inform the court of their position regarding a friendly settlement of the cases and any proposals they wished to make. on 27 august 2015 the court invited the applicants to submit their claims for just satisfaction.
the applicant was born in pakistan in 1963 and currently lives in sheltered accommodation in haina (land of hesse, germany). in december 1991 the applicant and her husband, a pakistani national, arrived in germany. in october 1993 the applicant’s own application for the same status was refused. on 16 june 1994 she was granted a temporary residence permit as the spouse of a refugee. on 11 february 1995 she gave birth to a son. the son stayed with the applicant, who then worked as a cleaner in different companies. in july 2004 she and her husband divorced. following an attempt to self-harm, she was provisionally transferred to a psychiatric hospital. on 13 july 2005 the giessen regional court ordered the applicant’s permanent confinement in a psychiatric hospital. a guardian was also appointed for the applicant. referring in particular to the act which had led to her committal to the psychiatric hospital and her general state of mental health, the authority concluded that she posed a danger to public safety which outweighed her personal interest in not being expelled, despite her long stay in germany and her residence status. it noted that the applicant was not economically integrated, had an insufficient command of german, which was an obstacle to her therapy, only had limited contact with her former husband and her son and remained immersed in pakistani culture. on 1 march 2011 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. in reaching that decision it noted that she had committed a serious act, that she lacked awareness of her own condition and that there was a high risk of her reoffending. moreover, she was not socially and economically integrated into german society, especially owing to her lack of german language skills. the administrative court added that the applicant had no significant family ties in germany because she had been divorced for years and parental authority over her son had been granted to his father. with regard to the situation in pakistan, it noted that according to information supplied by the german embassy in pakistan, basic medical care for patients with mental illness was available in large cities such as lahore and that the applicant could afford the treatment she needed as she would be receiving a monthly pension of around 250 euros (eur). the latest of these measures, which are generally valid for six months, was ordered on 22 march 2016 and is valid until 17 february 2017. on 9 february 2016 the government officially requested that the court strike the application out of its list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (b) of the convention. on that occasion they reiterated the aforementioned assurance, specifying that any new expulsion order would replace the original one and that the applicant would have access to all the remedies available in german law if she wished to challenge it.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently serving a prison sentence in sokyryany prison no. according to the applicant, he believed that the driver was already dead when he shot at him. they did not obey the order and attempted to flee. he lost consciousness and was handcuffed. furthermore, they had allegedly threatened the applicant that if he complained they would kill him. as further submitted by the applicant, on 29 september 2001 the police tried to transfer him from the kherson temporary detention facility (“the itt”, part of the police system) to the kherson pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”), but the sizo’s administration refused to admit him because of his many injuries. according to the applicant, on 9 october 2001 he sent another complaint to the kherson prosecutor’s office. on 18 february 2002 a forensic medical report was issued in respect of the applicant’s injuries following his arrest. the expert classified the injuries as minor. it remitted the case to the same court for fresh examination by a different judge. the court referred to the seriousness of the charges against the applicant and noted that he might abscond or hinder the investigation if at liberty. the applicant, however, said that he became aware of it after a considerable delay, which prevented him from lodging an appeal. on 1 march 2002 the pre-trial investigation was completed and the applicant and his lawyer received access to the case file. on 14 june 2002 the applicant and his co-accused were indicted. on 5 august 2002 the kherson court held a preparatory hearing, during which it decided to keep the applicant in detention. the case file does not contain a copy of that decision. on 20 september 2005 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the governor of the kherson sizo that the applicant had complained of having been beaten by a guard in the kyiv sizo. on 4 october 2005 a commission of three doctors examined the applicant. on a later, unspecified date the sizo governor wrote about the findings to the applicant’s lawyer. the applicant also alleged that during his detention his health had seriously deteriorated.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in velika reka. he was employed by holding kompanija “komgrap” – dd “komgrap gradnja”, a socially-owned company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 3 february 2006, the first belgrade municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 31 july 2006. on 23 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 24 december 2010 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. on 22 june 2011 the applicant submitted his respective claims. on 31 october 2010 the belgrade commercial court dismissed these claims as out of time. the commercial appeals court upheld that decision on 26 june 2012. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor are still ongoing. on 23 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. the constitutional court dismissed his appeal on 14 july 2011. on 13 march 2012 the applicant lodged a new constitutional appeal. on 26 january 2012 the constitutional court dismissed again his appeal. on 28 december 2012 that decision was delivered to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in bellevue, washington, usa. he is a president of global fishing inc., a corporation which was the largest importer of crab to the united states of america. the applicant was unable to attend for health reasons. he asked to be released on bail or alternatively on personal surety given by the chief rabbi of russia. the court dismissed the applicant’s arguments noting as follows:“the court takes into account the arguments presented by the defence, including the references concerning his character. the medical documents presented do not demonstrate that [the applicant] is unfit for detention. on 26 december 2007 the city court upheld the decision of 16 november 2007 on appeal. the application for release on bail or personal surety was dismissed. on 28 may 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 29 august 2008. in particular, the supreme court noted:“it follows from the materials in the case-file that [the court] took into account the gravity of the charges against [the applicant]..., and it is reasonable to assume that, if at large, he may abscond..., or continue his criminal activities, or threaten the witnesses, the victims and other parties to the proceedings, or destroy the evidence... that may be found in foreign companies or interfere with investigation in any other way. ... [ in the course of investigation the information was obtained that, should they be released, the defendants might abscond or interfere with the proceedings. on 17 february 2009 the applicant received an amended and finalised bill of indictment. furthermore, according to the report of policemen z. and v., the applicant..., if released, is planning to flee abroad and continue criminal activities connected to illegal fishing in the exclusive economic zone of the russian federation, put pressure on witnesses, try to destroy physical evidence. on 28 may 2009 the city court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 september 2009. on 29 october 2009 the supreme court upheld the decision of 15 september 2009 on appeal. on 2 september 2010 the regional court extended the defendants’ detention until 4 december 2010 reiterating verbatim its reasoning of 27 may 2010. on 17 january 2011 the regional court issued the relevant judgment advising the applicant of his right to rehabilitation. the head of the department of the investigating committee of the ministry of the interior of the russian federation. on 24 october 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s claims for pecuniary damages resulting from criminal prosecution against the ministry of finance of the russian federation.
on 29 june 2005 the čačak commercial court ordered a socially-owned company fabrika reznog alata čačak ad (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of damages, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. on 22 february 2006 the belgrade high commercial court amended the first instance judgment by ordering the debtor to also pay the first applicant specified amounts on account of lost profits and increasing the awarded costs of proceedings. this judgment became final on an unspecified date. on 17 march 2009 the debtor paid the first applicant a part of the sums specified in the said judgments. on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the first applicant’s debtor. as a result, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor were stayed. on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the first applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of its right to the peaceful enjoyment of its possessions. it further awarded the first applicant 1,000 euros (eur) as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the court in čačak to expedite the proceedings. the constitutional court dismissed the first applicant’s request for pecuniary damages as premature, since the enforcement proceedings were still pending. on 11 july 2003 the kraljevo commercial court established the secured property right of the applicant on certain commercial premises and ordered gp jastrebac (hereinafter “the debtor”) , a socially-owned company undergoing insolvency proceedings, to finish the construction of that property. the commercial court further ordered the debtor to pay the second applicant a certain amount if it failed to do so. this decision became final on an unspecified date. the debtor never finished the construction of the property in question. on 9 september 2009 the debtor paid the applicant a part of the amount established by the decision. on 11 may 2011 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on 26 march 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the second applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time. this judgment became final by 17 october 2003. on 30 october 2006, upon the third applicant’s request to that effect, the belgrade municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the first applicant the enforcement costs. it also awarded the third applicant eur 800 as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage and ordered the competent court to expedite the proceedings. the constitutional court dismissed the third applicant’s complaint concerning its right to the peaceful enjoyment of possessions and its request for pecuniary damages as premature, since the enforcement proceedings were still pending.
he is currently being detained in krasnoyarsk. on 4 september 2012 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the conviction, but decreased the sentence by two months. a chest x-ray showed that he had a mild case of pneumonia and he was also diagnosed with another chronic condition. in the hospital the applicant received the full range of treatments for his conditions. several weeks later his lawyer complained to the prison authorities of inadequate medical care. the applicant complained only of fatigue and headache to medical staff during that period. his ability to walk was hindered by severe pain. he took painkillers sent by his relatives. ms k. and ms b., detainees who worked with the applicant in the children’s camp from may 2013, confirmed the above statements. they submitted that the applicant had been seriously ill, had been barely able to walk and had often complained about severe pain. inmates had injected the applicant with painkillers supplied by his relatives. on 2 september 2013 the applicant asked the head of the detention facility to authorise a medical examination and treatment outside the facility owing to a serious spine and leg condition that had worried him since may 2013. an examination carried out on 22 january 2014, two days after his admission, revealed a prostate tumour and affection of the bone. a consultation by an oncologist was prescribed. on the next day the applicant complained about the quality of his treatment to the federal service for the execution of services in krasnoyarsk. the medical staff apparently complied fully with that prescription. on 19 september 2014 a medical panel concluded that the applicant’s state of health warranted his early release on medical grounds. on 9 april 2015 the applicant was certified as having a first-degree disability. in may 2015 he was admitted to the prison hospital for a medical examination and treatment. there are no details regarding his subsequent treatment.
the first applicant was born in 1952 in the novosibirsk region. on 25 january 1996 the krasnoyarsk regional court convicted him of murder, assault on a public official and other crimes and sentenced him to death. by a presidential pardon of 17 may 1999, the death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. since 24 december 1999 the first applicant has served his sentence in the ik-2 facility for life prisoners in the perm region. it appears from the original registration logs and floor plans submitted by the government that all the cells measured 10.5 or 11.3 square metres and were designed to accommodate up to three prisoners. the first applicant has never had more than two cellmates. the window did not open and access to natural light was restricted because of a metal sheet fixed directly outside the window. the first applicant stated that in 2009 major repair works had been carried out and the conditions had improved. the toilets and ventilation had been repaired, a higher partition and a door installed, the window shutters removed, and access to natural light and air had been improved. the second applicant was born in 1969 in moscow. on 3 december 1997 the moscow city court found him guilty of several murders and rape, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the facility is located on an island in a former monastery that was built in 1810 and converted into a prison in 1996. individual cells have no running water or sewerage. prisoners have a water tank and a bucket instead. water was supplied from an artesian well but it fell short of sanitary requirements because it contained too much iron and sediment. prisoners were given buckets for their daily needs: one bucket of water for drinking and washing and one to use as a toilet. in 2009 the federal penitentiary service had prepared an engineering and design blueprint for connecting all the cells to the mains and sewers but funding for the project had not been allocated. the prosecutor asked the court to require the facility’s management and the regional branch of the federal penitentiary service to connect all the cells to the water supply and sewers, to install ventilation and to improve the quality of the water. by a judgment of 17 april 2013, upheld on appeal on 21 june 2013, the belozerskiy district court dismissed his claim as unfounded. the court also noted that the claimant had not produced any evidence showing that the conditions of his detention in the period between 1998 and 2013 had been inadequate.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in dob prison. he cooperated with certain dutch and american enterprises. described the other man as looking a lot like the applicant, almost his twin, only older. and ran out through the main door, to the street and into the bushes. the applicant went back inside and saw h.c.z. stated that he was holding the gun at waist level, trying at the same time to get free from h.c.z. who had a gun in his hand, ordered the applicant to lie down on the floor. ’s death and that he had been in poor health when he had given his previous statement. ’s account did not correspond to the forensic conclusions. took the view that the shots could have been fired from a closer range than that established by f.s., frightened, went into the corner of the room and saw e.m.l. declared that he would not be willing to appear at the trial in slovenia or in the czech republic because he was afraid for his life, adding that he was ready to cooperate, but only in the netherlands. ’s testimony mostly concerned his and the applicant’s role in the business they had been involved in in the czech republic. ’s testimony regarding the shooting of h.c.z., had told him where he had discarded the gun back in 2001. had explained that this method would have not been reliable in the circumstances of the case. finally, the court pointed out numerous discrepancies between the applicant’s statements given during the investigation and at the trial, and the fact that the gun with which h.c.z. on 24 january 2008 the supreme court decided on the applicant’s request for the protection of legality. it rejected the applicant’s complaint of a violation of his defence rights due because he did not have the opportunity to cross-examine the main witness for the prosecution, finding that the applicant had been familiar with e.m.l. therefore, although the applicant had not been present during e.m.l.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in budapest. on 6 january 2000 the applicant brought an action against his parents before the siófok district court for dissolution of joint ownership of a real property. on 21 march 2000 the court suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in other proceedings. upon termination of the other proceedings on 17 november 2005, the siófok district court continued hearing the case. on 25 august 2006 the court again suspended the proceedings pending the adjudication of a preliminary question in another related procedure. upon termination of these proceedings on 30 august 2007, the siófok district court ordered continuation of the case on 17 november 2008. an agreement was reached between the parties which was acknowledged and incorporated into a judgment by the siófok district court on 5 may 2011.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lived before his arrest in the town of yoshkar-ola in the mariy el republic. in 2010 the applicant was convicted of murder, possessing firearms and aggravated robbery. he was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment. a month later he was discharged and transferred to a correctional colony, despite complaining of deteriorating health. on 18 december 2012 a pulmonary fluorography revealed that the applicant had “suspected nidal shadows (in the middle zones) on the right and left sides”. on 24 july 2013 the district court rejected a request by the applicant for release, citing the panel’s report of 6 march 2013 and, in particular, the fact that he had been diagnosed with stage 3 cancer, which was not included in the list of illnesses. on 21 november 2013 the district court dismissed another request for early release by the applicant. the applicant’s lawyer sought the opinion of an independent expert from the blokhin cancer research centre of the russian academy of sciences. relying on statements by a representative of the applicant’s correctional colony and ms artemyeva, the court found that the applicant was not receiving anti-cancer treatment in the colony as such treatment had to be prescribed by an oncologist. the colony medical unit did not employ this type of specialist. the expert also noted that since august 2012 his treatment had been merely symptomatic and that his drug regimen was limited to painkillers. the government were also asked to ensure his immediate transfer to a specialist hospital if the medical experts concluded that such admittance was required. on 4 december 2014 the government responded, submitting various documents. (ii)  certificates issued by the acting head of the medical unit in the applicant’s correctional colony, listing the diagnosis and giving a short description of general medical procedures. in a one-page document the government also answered the three questions which on 12 november 2014 the court had asked to be addressed to independent medical experts. they concluded that his condition did not call for admittance to a specialist hospital or release. on 17 january 2015 two forensic medical experts from st. the government included the applicant’s medical record drawn up between december 2014 and april 2015 in a letter to the court dated 24 september 2015. they also enclosed a number of certificates prepared by the acting heads of the correctional colony and colony medical unit. the applicant’s condition had been considered particularly serious between 18 december 2014 and 1 february 2015, and then between 24 march and 8 april 2015.
the applicants were born in 1967 and 1970 respectively and live in rostov-on-don. on 26 december 2006 the applicants were arrested and placed in a detention centre operated by the rostov-on-don police. on 1 january 2007 and 31 december 2006 respectively, the applicants were transferred to remand prison no. iz-61/1 in rostov-on-don, where they were held until 23 march 2012. the first applicant, mr reznik, submitted that between 1 january and 15 may 2007 he had been held in cells 117 and 118 of the remand prison, which measured 6 square metres and had six sleeping places but accommodated up to nine inmates. in cells 42, 44 and 45, where he stayed from 15 may until november 2007, the surface area was approximately 11 square metres for twelve sleeping places and up to eleven inmates. on some occasions he and his cellmates had to take turns to sleep. the first applicant produced written statements by mr f., mr k. and mr s., with whom he had been detained in the same cells in 2007-2009, 2009, and 2006-2010, respectively. the statements corroborated his account of the conditions of detention. the government provided a description of the applicants’ conditions of detention, relying on certificates issued in june 2015 by the director of the remand prison, photographs of the cells, prisoner transfer logs (суточная ведомость учёта лиц, временно выбывших из следственного изолятора) and registration logs (журнал количественной проверки подозреваемых, обвиняемых и осуждённых). minmatesperiod1188214 january to 14 may 200744 14. for example, in the log of 9 june 2008, the maximum capacity was handwritten for cells 42, 44, 45, 111, 117, and 118 (see mr reznik’s cell numbers above); and for 184 and 192 (ms guzeyeva’s cells), and matched the actual number of prisoners in those cells. the government also provided undated photographs of cells 42, 44, 45, 111, 117, 118, and 192, which were taken from the corridor through the door, which was ajar. one of the photographs shows cell 44, with the list of cell equipment on the door indicating that it contains “six two-tier beds”. the applicants denied that the photographs showed the cells in which they had been held because those cells had not had the vaulted ceilings that were visible in the photographs. on 13 march 2012 the rostov regional court amended the judgment on appeal, reducing the sentences and revoking the forfeiture order on the grounds that the relevant provisions of criminal law had been enacted after the commission of the crimes. the applicants lodged several claims for the return of their property. the court considered that the rest of the money was to be forfeited to the state. the applicants appealed and by a final decision of 16 december 2015 the rostov regional court ordered the rest of the applicants’ property to be returned to them, finding that the district court’s forfeiture order had been unlawful and procedurally defective. the applicants recovered the remaining amounts on 20 january and 18 february 2016.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in moscow. he was found guilty of failure to obey lawful police orders, an offence under article 19.3 of the code of administrative offences, and was subsequently charged with participation in mass disorder and with having committed violent acts against police officers, criminal offences provided for by articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code. on 5 may 2012 the tsentralnyy district prosecutor’s office of moscow issued a warning to two of the organisers, mr davidis and mr udaltsov, against exceeding the notified number of participants and against erecting camping tents at the meeting venue, an intention allegedly expressed by the organisers at the working meeting. at the beginning of the march, the organisers signed an undertaking to ensure public order during the demonstration and gave assurances to the police that the limits on the place and time allocated for the assembly would be respected and that no tents would be placed on bolotnaya square. the turnout exceeded expectations, but there is no consensus as to the exact numbers. after about fifteen minutes of attempting to engage with the cordon officers, at 5.16 p.m. the four leaders announced that they were going on a “sit-down strike” and sat on the ground. between 5.20 p.m. and 5.45 p.m. two state duma deputies tried to negotiate the enlargement of the restricted area by moving the police cordon behind the park along the lines expected by the organisers. the live television footage provided by the parties contained no mention of her announcement. they received prison sentences of between two and a half and four years; one of them was released on parole. it reduced the applicant’s prison sentence to two years and three months. there is no information as to whether he was detained on that day. this extension order was upheld by the moscow city court on 6 august 2012. on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 19 november 2013. finally, he alleged that access to drinking water was conditional on the purchase of an electric kettle. on 3 october 2012 the investigator granted the applicant’s request for a medical examination. it appears that the medical examination was not carried out. the glazed windows let in sufficient daylight. he claimed that he was cramped together with other detainees and their belongings in a small tin cabin without windows, ventilated only through a roof hatch. some of the convoy cells on the ground floor of the court-house were as small as two square metres, and each could be shared by two detainees. each cabin measured 4 m x 1.2 m x 2.3 m (height).
the applicants in the present cases are russian nationals. their names, years of birth and places of residence are tabulated below. the applicants sued different municipal companies, referred to in the appendix as the “debtor companies”, in various unrelated sets of the court proceedings. the companies were incorporated as municipal unitary enterprises set up by decisions of local administrations and provided services tabulated below in the respective municipal districts in several regions of russia. the companies had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to them by the administrations in order to carry out their statutory activities. on the dates tabulated below by decisions of the local authorities some of the assets allocated to the companies were transferred back to the administration. at a later point insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the debtor companies. as a result, the companies were subsequently liquidated. the dates on which the insolvency started and ended are tabulated below. on the dates tabulated below domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in the applicants’ favour, to be paid by the debtor companies. particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. the final judicial decisions in the applicants’ favour have remained unenforced due to companies’ insolvency and subsequent liquidation. several applicants’ subsequent court actions against authorities, including subsidiary liability claim, legal succession proceedings or claims for damages against the respective local administrations, as well as repetitive complaints to the bailiffs’ service or the prosecutor’s office in connection with pending criminal proceedings brought in 2006-07 with regard to the company’s insolvency (applications nos. 20018/07, 10313/08, 36611/08, 56499/09, 42111/10, 43017/10, and 61212/10) proved futile. on 20 november 2009 the applicant in application no. on 1 november 2010, his widow, anishchenko raisa yakovlevna, expressed her willing to participate in the proceedings before the court in her late husband’s stand.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in split. she is the owner of a flat in zagreb with a surface area of 80.58 square metres. the flat is occupied by a “protected lessee” (zaštićeni najmoprimac), a certain ms s.š. shortly afterwards in 2007 the applicant brought a counterclaim before the same court seeking to obtain a judgement ordering s.š. and the members of her household to vacate the flat in question. by a judgement of 5 december 2011 the zagreb municipal civil court found in favour of s.š. it recognised her legal status of a protected lessee and substituted the lease contract stipulating protected rent in the amount of hrk 190.25 per month[2]. the court dismissed the applicant’s counterclaim as unfounded. on 11 december 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgement, which thereby became final. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) alleging violations of her right to equality before the law guaranteed by article 14 of the constitution and of her ownership rights guaranteed by articles 48, 49 and 50 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 17 below). by a decision of 12 september 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. this decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 23 september 2013. the government submitted a document dated 16 april 2015 from which it follows that the protected rent was set at hrk 217.57[4]. according to the documents submitted by the parties, the applicant was not obliged to pay the condominium fee into the common reserve fund for the flat. that fee was incumbent on another individual. according to the applicant, she never paid any income tax on the income generated by renting her flat subject to the protected lease scheme. the government did not contest this information. she submitted an advertisement from the internet dated 2 june 2014 offering for rent a flat of a similar size as hers (80 m²) for eur 700 per month, and another one dated 17 december 2014 of 36 m² for eur 420 per month. in addition to this she submitted a copy of a lease agreement of 30 january 2014 for a flat with the surface area of 44.94 m² rented out for hrk 1,600 per month[5]. the government did not furnish any information in this respect.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sibinj. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was a civil servant of the city of slavonski brod, working in its office for public relations and protocol (grad slavonski brod, ured za odnose s javnošću i protokol – hereinafter “the city of slavonski brod”). in 2007 he was suspended from the civil service on account of having been accused of severe breaches of his official duties. for the duration of his suspension, that is to say between september 2007 and september 2008, the applicant was entitled to monthly salary compensation in the amount of 60% of the salary remitted in the month prior to his suspension from the civil service. on 5 september 2008 the osijek civil service tribunal (službenički sud u osijeku) found the applicant guilty of severe breaches of his official duties and fined him 10% of the salary paid to him in the month in which the said sanction was imposed. he was of the opinion that by withholding 40% of his salary for a period of 12 months and imposing a fine on him the administrative bodies had punished him twice. by a decision of 17 november 2008 the city of slavonski brod dismissed that application. the applicant then lodged an appeal, which was dismissed as ill-founded by the same administrative body that delivered the above-mentioned decision (that is to say the city of slavonski brod). however, in its decision of 22 december 2008 it gave the instruction that the applicant had a right to bring an administrative action against it before the administrative court. on 22 january 2009 the applicant brought an administrative action, in accordance with the city of slavonski brod’s ruling. on 1 january 2012 certain amendments to the court act entered into force and the administrative court became the high administrative court. by a decision of 4 january 2012 the high administrative court, relying on sections 9 and 30(1), point 5, of the administrative disputes act, declined jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter, stating that an ordinary municipal court (redovni, općinski sud) was the appropriate court to hear the applicant’s case, and declared the applicant’s action inadmissible. on 12 march 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. in particular, he argued that according to the supreme court’s case-law, ordinary municipal courts did not have jurisdiction over disputes arising from legally binding decisions of administrative bodies. on 17 july 2012 it served its decision on the applicant’s representative. by a judgment of 20 march 2013 the first-instance court dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. it held, inter alia, that given that the high administrative court had declared the applicant’s administrative action inadmissible, it could not be deemed that the statutory limitation period had been interrupted. it relied on section 242(2) of the civil obligations act. by a judgment of 12 august 2013 the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment of 20 march 2013.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in lisbon. at the relevant time he was also a columnist for o independente, a national weekly newspaper. the article also contained statements by a.s., who has assured o independente that ‘the project does not face any risk’ and denigrated carlos câmara, whom he does not recognise as having the ‘skills to evaluate the development of the project’, and his opinions ... with regard to câmara leaving the project, [a.s.] my declarations focused on two issues of extreme gravity since they undermine the operational functioning of the project: the lack of a cost centre for the financial management and the non-recruitment of the necessary elements for its execution. he could have either confirmed my statements or lie shamelessly. [ and it would be desirable that the reports were signed by the financial controller of the project, the existence of which is envisaged in the [project] plan but was never hired. clear and objective questions require clear and objective answers and the only question that arises is whether the proposed contracts were in fact made. lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant, accusing him of defamation. sought leave to participate in the proceedings as an assistant (with victim status) to the public prosecutor (assistente) and lodged a claim for damages against the applicant. by a judgment of 14 july 2010, the lisbon criminal court convicted the applicant of aggravated defamation. by making disparaging allegations in respect of him. ... the phrases in question are objectively offensive. [ they are value judgments and not statements of fact ......the instant case does not fall in a political context. while the word ‘liar’ would be a fact and as such addressed towards the professional performance of the assistant, the phrases ‘petty liar’ and ‘poor wretch’ constitute value judgments which, in the opinion of this court, are excluded from objective criticism and fall within the scope of a personal attack on the assistant. ...in the instant case, [the applicant] knew that the offended was the president of the im, a public body, and wrote those words about him in order to address the duties performed and the activity performed in relation to those functions. the right to criticism has to remain within the objective criticism of the duties performed by the person concerned and not displace into personal criticism, into personal attack. on 17 february 2011 the lisbon court of appeal upheld the first-instance decision. however, that did not happen as he added an adjective to the expression in such a way as to make a sharper negative evaluation of the person concerned. and, in our opinion, [he did so] in an unnecessary and disproportionate way.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in rijeka. as a professor of theology he was qualified to teach catholic religious education and courses in ethics and culture, as provided under the relevant domestic law (see paragraph 36 below). 492/08-2002) authorising him to teach catholic religious education. they had married in a religious ceremony on 14 december 2002 and their marriage had been recognised at the same time by the civil authorities, as provided for under the relevant domestic law (see paragraphs 33 and 38 below). the applicant’s subsequent divorce from t.f. the local catechetical office of the rijeka archdiocese issued you a mandate to teach catholic religious education in school. the new situation does not enable you to do this. on the same day the rijeka archdiocese informed the two schools in which the applicant was employed of the new situation. the applicant was given two months’ notice and the right to an indemnity. on 22 february 2007 the opatija municipal court dismissed the applicant’s civil action on the grounds that as stipulated in the agreement between the holy see and croatia and the related agreement between the government of croatia and the croatian episcopal conference on catholic religious education in state schools and pre-school institutions, he could not teach catholic religious education without a canonical mandate. the opatija municipal court also found that the schools had examined the possibility of appointing the applicant to another suitable post, but that as there was no such post, they had justifiably terminated his contract of employment. the applicant challenged the judgment of the opatija municipal court by lodging an appeal before the rijeka county court (županijski sud u rijeci). he relied, inter alia, on articles 8 and 14 of the convention, and the corresponding provisions of the constitution, arguing that there had been an unjust interference with his private and family life as a result of the decisions on his dismissal, and that his dismissal had been of a discriminatory nature. on 3 december 2008 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the lower courts. it follows from the available material and the [appellant’s] constitutional complaint that the appellant’s first marriage had been concluded in a religious ceremony before an official of the religious community and that [the appellant] was divorced on the basis of a final court decision as provided for under the relevant croatian law. it follows that the state did not inhibit his determination to remarry, nor did it prevent him from remarrying and founding a new family. 163/03);- the islamic community in croatia (official gazette no. this is because the withdrawal of the canonical mandate leads to the loss of the right to teach catholic religious education and not dismissal or the loss of his degree in theology. according to the findings of the first-instance court, the defendants had examined the possibility of employing the appellant in another post but, as such a post had not existed, they terminated his contract of employment by so-called regular dismissal, which gives rise to the right to a notice period and an indemnity. ’s application and annulled her religious marriage to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in split. the applicant is the owner of a commercial building in split, which he uses as a car repair workshop. the building in issue was bought from the state in 2001. at the time of purchase, no limitation on its use was registered or apparent. it explained that the building, which was being used as a car repair workshop at that point, appeared to be a rare example of early industrial architecture in split, and therefore this warranted a measure limiting its use by the applicant. under section 10 of the protection and preservation of cultural heritage act (zakon o zaštiti i očuvanju kulturnih dobara, hereafter “the cultural heritage act”) the measure would remain in place for a period of three years, and, in accordance with section 11 of the same act, would afford the same protection as a final protective measure (see paragraph 21 below). the decision ordering the preventive protection was not transmitted to the applicant. the applicant was not informed of the above decision relating to the second measure of preventive protection in respect of his building. on 3 september 2007 the measure was registered in the land register. on 16 october 2007, after becoming aware of the second measure of preventive protection following an enquiry with the land registry, the applicant challenged the extended application of that measure before the ministry of culture (ministarstvo culture, hereafter “the ministry”). he contended, in particular, that he had not been informed of the decision ordering the preventive protection, and that the protection could no longer be ordered, since the maximum duration of such a measure under the cultural heritage act was three years. on 8 january 2008 the split department forwarded the applicant’s appeal to the ministry. on 31 january 2008 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, on the grounds that there was nothing in the law preventing the competent authority from applying the measure twice for periods of three years, and that the measure of preventive protection had not limited the applicant’s ownership rights. it also pointed out that it was necessary to extend the preventive protection in respect of the building, as the determination of its heritage value required further comprehensive assessment. he also contended that the decisions of the lower authorities had been arbitrary. in particular, his several attempts to sell the building and set up another business cooperation had failed, owing to the existing preventive protection. meanwhile, the split department found that the applicant’s building should not be registered as an object of cultural heritage. on 15 april 2010, after the expiry of the measure of preventive protection, the split municipal court ordered that the entry concerning the measure be deleted from the land register. on 18 may 2011 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative action as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the lower authorities. on 14 december 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in chelyabinsk. in 1992 the title to the building was transferred to chelyabinsk municipality. p. resided in the flat as a tenant until his death on 3 december 2010. however, it turned out that, according to the documents, the flat was no longer municipal property and that it belonged to l. the federal registration service sent the relevant data to the head of the municipality’s administration on 16 february 2011. the head of the administration asked the regional prosecutor to look into the situation with the flat. on 3 december 1992 the transaction was registered by the registration service. sold the flat to l., who sold it on 21 april 2011 to ya. who denied having anything to do with the flat. as regards his passport details indicated in the privatisation agreement, he explained that in 2009 and 2010 he had lost his passport twice and that he had never met p. or l. the police further established that l., who was serving in the army at the time, had also lost his passport in 2009. accordingly the materials have been forwarded to the [police] for further inquiry ... . [the police] will inform you of the results of the inquiry ... . on an unspecified date the police opened a criminal investigation into the transactions involving the flat. the tsentralniy district court of chelyabinsk fixed a hearing for 1 september 2011. on 6 july 2011 the registration service issued a certificate confirming the purchase of the flat by the applicant and her title to it. on 5 october 2011 the district court issued an injunction against the registration of any transactions involving the flat. should return to the applicant the sum she had paid for the flat. it has been established in the course of the proceedings that the flat in question left the municipality’s possession against the latter’s will. accordingly, the flat ... should be recovered from [the applicant] and transferred to the municipality.” on 5 march 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 december 2011 on appeal. on 19 december 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s claims.
the first applicant, mr t. p. was born in 1981 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely. on 22 november 2006 the nógrád county regional court convicted the first applicant of murder committed with special cruelty and abuse of firearms. the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. on 28 june 2007 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment, adding that the murder had been committed for ‘villainous’ reasons, namely, the applicant was considered to have killed the victim in a particularly atrocious manner, so as to prevent her from reporting the initial abduction and stabbing and thereby to cover up a previous crime. on 14 february 2008 the supreme court dismissed the first applicant’s petition for review. on 5 november 2013 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole. was born in 1985 and is currently serving his prison term in sátoraljaújhely. on 14 may 2010 the borsod-abaúj-zemplén county regional court convicted the second applicant of double murder and abuse of firearms. he was sentenced to life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. on 9 november 2010 the debrecen court of appeal upheld this judgment. on 13 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the second applicant’s petition for review. on 23 october 2014 the president of the republic dismissed the applicant’s request for pardon, by which he sought commutation of his life sentence to twenty years fixed-term imprisonment as well as allowing the possibility of his release on parole.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lived in verkhnyaya pyshma, sverdlovsk region. on 27 may 2012 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. on 18 january 2014 the verkhnyaya pyshma town court convicted the applicant of the charges and sentenced him to ten years’ imprisonment. he suffered from advanced hiv, long-term tuberculosis at the stage of lung tissue destruction and chronic hepatitis c. 10. on his admission to prison he had informed the doctor that he had been receiving tuberculosis treatment for several years, but that it had not been successful. on 23 january 2013 drug susceptibility testing was performed. given the development of the applicant’s drug resistance, a medical panel at the hospital ordered different antibiotics to be used. however, in the following months he started experiencing back pain. in july 2014 a tuberculous infection of the vertebrae was diagnosed and the applicant was readmitted to the prison hospital. his application for release was examined by the leninskiy district court of nizhniy tagil on 27 november 2014. the decision was upheld on appeal by the sverdlovsk regional court on 24 february 2015. on 12 march 2015 the applicant asked the court to apply rule 39 of the rules of court and to indicate to the government that he should be provided with adequate medical care and immediately released. the deterioration of his condition required an urgent medical intervention, which was unavailable in the prison hospital. on 23 march 2015 the president of the section, acting upon the applicant’ s request, decided to apply rules 39 and 41 of the rules of court, indicating to the government that the applicant should be immediately examined by medical experts which were independent from the prison system. furthermore, the government were to ensure his transfer to a specialist hospital if the medical experts concluded that admission to such a hospital was necessary. however, they admitted that there had been a serious deterioration in the applicant’s condition in 2014. however, two independent doctors acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer had assessed the quality of the applicant’s medical treatment in detention and whether his further detention in the prison hospital was appropriate for someone as ill as him. they also stated that the applicant required spinal surgery owing to the tuberculous infection of the vertebrae and that it was vital he be transferred from the prison hospital to a specialist medical facility. on 21 august 2015 the sverdlovsk regional court set aside that decision.
the applicants were born in 1950 and in 1949, respectively, and live in matosinhos. instituted civil proceedings against the applicants and other four defendants before the matosinhos court seeking the payment of 11,843.48 euros (eur) due to the alleged sale of a part of the plaintiffs’ property. on 29 march 2005 the applicants were summoned to challenge the action against them; which they did not. in the notification letter they were given notice that the lack of opposition would entail the confession of the facts pursuant to article 484 § 1 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 11 below). between 21 april 2005 and 24 may 2013 several procedural steps took place either by action of the plaintiffs, the remaining defendants or the matosinhos court. in particular: on 21 april 2005 the remaining defendants contested the action; on 3 november 2005 the plaintiffs submitted observations in reply; on 17 october 2007 the plaintiffs lodged a request seeking the intervention of i.t. in the proceedings, which was admitted by the matosinhos court on 29 may 2009; on 15 december 2010 the judge gave directions concerning the matters to be discussed at the hearing (despacho saneador); on 21 march 2012, following i.t. ’s death, the matosinhos court stayed the proceedings pending the outcome of inheritance proceedings. on 24 may 2013 the applicants submitted a power of attorney and requested that the case-file be uploaded to the legal platform “citius” for consultation. on 10 january 2014 the applicants requested the participation of an expert of their own choosing in the preparation of the expert report which had been sought by the plaintiffs. on an unknown date the other defendants in the proceedings lodged an opposition to the applicants’ request. on 16 october 2015 the matosinhos court adopted a judgment in which it ruled in favour of the applicants.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1957 respectively and live in the village of savelyevskaya, in the naurskiy district of the chechen republic. upon the arrival of the military in savelyevskaya, the local residents did not flee but remained in their homes. having witnessed the attack, a civilian, mr d., tried to approach the servicemen, but was shot dead in the presence of the applicants and mr m.r. in july 2000, as soon as the local law-enforcement bodies had begun functioning again in their district, the applicants lodged an official complaint in respect of the events of 8 october 1999 with the local police (see paragraph 15 below). at the military unit the applicants had been given medical assistance. the applicant had asked the unit commander to drive her cattle over to pasture land lying closer to the village. the commander had promised to do that but he had not kept his promise and her cattle had gone missing. as a result, the second applicant had been shot in the upper extremities. on 23 october 2000 the investigators granted the second applicant victim status in the criminal case and questioned him again. on 29 july 2005 the naurskiy vovd replied to the complaint, stating that the investigation had been suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 28 december 2005 the naurskiy district prosecutor’s office (hereinafter “the district prosecutor’s office”) replied to her, stating that she could access the file only upon the completion of the criminal investigation. on 22 february 2006 the investigators questioned mr kh.s., he had no information concerning the attack on the applicants and had no idea who had been the commander of the military unit at the material time. officer b. stated that in december 2000 (while he had been in chechnya) he had been questioned about the incident, but he could not remember by whom and under what circumstances. on 14 may 2008 the investigations department adopted a decision terminating the investigation in criminal case no. on the same date (14 march 2012) the deputy chechnya prosecutor also ordered that the criminal case file be sent to the chechnya investigations committee for further investigation. in addition, up until the present, no request for information concerning the exact place where military unit no. the military commander of the naurskiy district, officer a.s. on 19 june 2008 each applicant lodged a complaint before the district court challenging the investigations department’s refusal of 7 may 2008 to initiate a criminal investigation. on an unspecified date between january and march 2009 the applicants lodged a complaint before the district court about the defects in the investigation and the investigators’ failure to act with expedition.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in hatay. who was around the same age, after falling into a water-filled hole on a construction site where they had apparently been playing. the cause of death was determined as drowning. the hole on the construction site was covered by the municipality of antakya (“the municipality”) in the aftermath of this tragic incident. during the course of the criminal proceedings the hatay criminal court of first instance obtained three different expert reports with a view to determining liability for the death of the applicant’s son. the first report, dated 16 april 1998, was drawn up by three civil engineers. the witnesses interviewed at the scene of the incident, including two construction workers, confirmed that no precautions had been taken to cover or otherwise enclose the hole. they further stated that the construction workers were aware that the hole in question regularly filled up with rainwater and one of them said that they occasionally used the water that accumulated in the hole for construction work. the experts noted that the municipality also bore 25% responsibility for the two children’s deaths, as (i) they had failed to duly inspect whether the construction, for which it had issued a permit, had complied with the rules on work safety, and to ensure that the construction site had been properly closed off with wooden panels as a safety measure, and (ii) it was not clear on what legal ground it had allowed the digging and the use of the hole in question as a shelter, as such shelters had to be built beneath buildings and not in open spaces. had disregarded all their warnings, saying that parents were responsible for attending to the safety of their children. similarly, there had been no warning signs around the construction site or the hole. that is why the hole was not closed off. [ at the time of the incident] the hole was filled with water following rainfall. the hole filled up with water whenever it rained... it must have filled up again when i was away, there was no opportunity to remove the water.” and the municipality were 75% and 25% at fault respectively and that no liability could be attributed to the deceased children. were 25% and 75% responsible for the incident respectively. accordingly, on 6 august 2001 the trial court decided, pursuant to section 1(4) of law no. his construction company and the antakya municipality, arguing that they bore joint responsibility for their children’s deaths. on 5 november 2004 an expert report was prepared by a mechanical engineer, who was also an expert on occupational safety, and an architect at the request of the hatay civil court of first instance. and his company, nor had they commenced enforcement proceedings against the latter.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in warsaw. on 30 march 2007 the applicant, who was at that time a journalist of the weekly magazine wprost, contacted a.c., on 2 april 2007 the applicant published an article in wprost entitled “agents wearing ermine”, alleging that during the communist times a.c. the article did not quote its sources, referring in general terms to unspecified documents. on 15 may 2007 the magazine refused to do so. it was available on the magazine’s website until 20 may 2007. ’s involvement with the communist secret services, saying that the arguments presented by the applicant in the articles were not sufficiently convincing. brought a private bill of indictment against the applicant and s.j., the editor-in-chief of the magazine at that time. it was submitted that this publication could discredit him in the eyes of the public and result in him losing the confidence necessary to perform his duties as a public university rector, a criminal offence punishable under article 212 of the criminal code. had made a true vetting statement to the effect that he had not been an informant for the communist secret services. he had been questioned by the communist secret police on several occasions before 1989, when the communist system in poland had collapsed. he had never declared willingness to become one. in the light of the documents available, the thesis advanced by the applicant was not only devoid of factual basis, but also incompatible with her obligation to show proper journalistic diligence. the warsaw district court concluded that the applicant had failed to show the journalistic diligence required of her under section 12 of the 1984 press act. being an informant for the communist secret police was perceived in society in an extremely negative manner. she had therefore overstepped the limits of acceptable criticism, defamed the plaintiff and thereby committed a criminal offence. it determined the amount of the applicant’s fine at 3,000 polish zlotys (pln - approximately 750 euros (eur)) and ordered her to pay pln 2,500 (approximately 625 eur) to charity. the publication of the articles had been her idea and she had written them. the applicant and her co-accused appealed, raising many procedural arguments.
the applicant, mr andrzej klibisz, is a polish national who was born in 1968 and is currently detained in włocławek prison. it appears that the appeal was not entertained by the authorities. finally, in connection with the third-mentioned period, the applicant complained that having quashed his second-instance conviction, the supreme court had decided to extend his detention despite the fact that the applicant had been absent from the relevant hearing, thus, in breach of the principle of equality of arms. on 13 october 2005 the applicant brought a civil action under article 417 of the civil code, seeking compensation for the fact that in the official letter of 27 december 2004 the deputy governor (zastępca dyrektora) of radom remand centre had stated that the applicant was guilty of uttering threats against judge b. p.on 8 june 2006 the radom regional court dismissed the applicant’s action. in fact, the impugned criminal proceedings against the applicant had been terminated on 21 december 2004 but the remand centre’s administration had been informed about it only on 28 december 2004, that is, one day after the deputy governor’s letter was sent. the second envelope bears similar rectangular stamps reading “warszawa białołęka remand centre received ... l.dz....” (“areszt śledczy warszawa białołęka wpłynęło ... l.dz. ...”). he did not make any specific submissions in respect of the conditions of his detention there. 11 wing xiv) in temperatures as low as 14 degrees celsius with an average temperature of 16-17 degrees celsius in wintertime. (a)  description of the living conditions 112. it was also noted that one day after the applicant had been transferred to radom remand centre, the deputy director general of the prison service informed the remand centre’s administration that the applicant had been uttering threats against judge b.p. ( it appears that the letters were eventually delivered to the addressees. the procedure had been in compliance with articles 90 (8) and 242 § 6 of the code of execution of criminal sentences. on 23 november 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal with the radom regional court to challenge the governor’s decision to impose a disciplinary punishment by placing him in solitary confinement. on 30 december 2004 the penitentiary judge of the radom regional court heard the submissions of the prosecutor and of the applicant. (iv)  conditions of the applicant’s detention during his disciplinary punishment(α)  description of the living conditions 187. had been justified and had not caused the applicant any harm. the applicant was detained in this prison (287 km from his hometown) from 8 until 24 april 2008. on 6 september 2010 the kielce regional court examined the applicant’s appeal under article 7 § 1 of the code as to the formal compliance of the impugned commission’s decision with the law and as to the alleged arbitrariness of its assessment of the applicant’s character and his conduct. the applicant submitted that on 20 may 2010 the wardens at tarnów prison had taken away all his documents concerning his proceedings before the domestic courts and the echr and his own law books. by an order of 22 november 2010 a penitentiary judge of the łomża regional court refused to postpone the execution of the disciplinary punishment.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in kaunas. on the evening of 22 october 2011 the panemunė police department of the kaunas district received a call that a man had been robbed in the street by several young men in the neighbourhood close to the railway station. he was approached by a police car in which there were three officers a.r., they asked the applicant to stop and take his hands out of his pockets. as the officers were getting out of the car, the applicant started running away from them. he did not respond to our order to stop ... soon he was noticed ... close to the railway station ... and he was apprehended. she claimed that one of the officers had hit the applicant with a truncheon in the police car numerous times, and that afterwards his body had been covered in bruises and he had had difficulties walking. the applicant’s lawyer also pointed out that a medical examination had detected at least eighteen blows from a hard blunt object on the applicant’s body (see paragraph 15 above) and argued that the police officers were lying in order to cover up the fact that they had beaten him. the court found no reason to doubt the credibility and impartiality of the police officers, and considered that their consistent testimonies proved that the applicant had violently resisted the police. on 11 july 2012 the kaunas regional court upheld the judgment of the lower court. on 24 october 2011 the head of the panemunė police department instructed the officers of that department to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the applicant’s allegations that he had been ill-treated by the police while being apprehended. he didn’t complain about anything, so we didn’t take him to a doctor ... we delivered [the applicant] to his mother ... she began scolding her son and even thanked us for bringing him to her. was also questioned as a witness and the written record of his interview was almost identical to that of a.r. soon the officer with the shaved head got into the car and sat down in front of me. on 28 november 2011 the investigator submitted a report to the head of the criminal investigation unit of the kaunas district police department, suggesting that no pre-trial investigation should be opened. he confirmed that on the night of 22 october 2011 he had been on duty together with officers o.k. around 3 a.m. that night, when we were eating in the trolleybus, my son undressed and i saw that his body was covered in bruises ... my son told me that one of the officers (the one with the shaven head) had beaten him up. i asked, “why, i don’t bother your daughter, i don’t even talk to her”. led me behind a wall, put an electroshock device on the left side of my stomach and threatened to use it if i didn’t defend his daughter from my friends; he also said that if he caught me one more time, he would beat me even more. the officers did not provide me with the first aid.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in prague. on 15 september 2008 the applicant re-registered his domicile in croatia. ....... [d]uring the first-instance proceedings [before the customs administration] the accused stated circumstances and furnished evidence which, in his view, suggested that he had not committed the offence of which he was accused. [ the solemn statement of the commercial company [erc] of 13 august 2008 stating that it would provide accommodation for miljenko žaja as of 1 january 2008 was also examined in the proceedings. therefore, given that during the [first-instance] proceedings the decisive fact that the accused is a croatian national who at the time of the commission of the offence had his domicile in the territory of the republic of croatia was established beyond doubt, he did not satisfy the conditions for temporary admission of a foreign car to the territory of the republic of croatia set out in the above-cited provisions of the annex to the convention on temporary admission. it is totally unclear why the complainant should, as stated in the first-instance decision, pay any customs debt [in the situation] where he did not ask for customs clearance but only temporary admission. it is evident from the case-file that the first-instance administrative authority took evidence in accordance with the administrative offences act and that the high court for administrative offences decided on the complainant’s appeal on the merits. the contested decisions are sufficiently reasoned and adopted in accordance with the relevant procedural rules. on 9 july 2001 the constitutional court delivered decision no. the decree on the implementation of the customs act (uredba za provedbu carinskog zakona, official gazette, no. ...section 5“a citizen’s residence [boravište] may be habitual or temporary. us-8015/2002 of 23 november 2006 the administrative court quashed the decision of the ministry of the interior to de-register of its own motion the domicile of a croatian national who had left croatia for employment in a foreign country. in so doing what is decisive is the will of the citizens themselves, because only the place where a citizen has settled with the intention of permanently living there may be regarded as his or her domicile...the case file ... suggests that the plaintiff, her husband and her children had ... their registered domicile in the republic of croatia in the town of h. ... and that they had all gone together, for reasons of the husband’s employment, to live temporarily in ... bosnia and herzegovina, without the intention of staying there permanently. (2) the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall include residence in [the country] on [the basis of] a long-term visa [that is, a visa for a term exceeding 90 days] or a [long-term] residence permit ... (3) the period referred to in paragraph 1 shall include also periods of absence [from the country] during the time of residence, if each period of absence does not exceed six consecutive months, or if, in total, they do not exceed ten months ... (4) ...” 43. fpž-88/09 of 28 january 2009, fpž-75/09 of 25 march 2009, fpž-1162/10 of 8 february 2011, and fpž-1285/07 of 18 may 2011), submitted by the government, it follows that those authorities interpreted the term “persons resident” in article 5 of annex c to the istanbul convention as “persons having domicile”, and in so doing referred to the definition of domicile provided in the domicile and residence of citizens act (see paragraph 32 above). 413-01/12-01/379 of 20 september 2012, no. ...it follows ... that nationality alone, or even temporary residence granted to a person in a particular country, does not automatically entitle to or prohibit from the driving of cars with foreign licence plates in the customs territory of the republic of croatia. ...chapter iidefinitions...article 4resident“1. for the purposes of this convention, the term “resident of a contracting state” means any person who, under the laws of that state, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature .... 2. in those agreements the term “resident” (résident) (in the agreements with france and the czech republic), or “fiscal domicile” (in the agreement with the united kingdom) were translated into croatian as “rezident” or (in the agreement with the united kingdom) “fiskalni domicil”.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in daugavpils. he stabbed another individual with a knife, as a result of which the latter died. the record of his arrest contained a written statement from him confirming that he did not need a lawyer. on 6, 7 and 13 october 2004 the police questioned the applicant as a suspect. on 22 december 2004 the public prosecutor charged the applicant with murder under section 116 of the criminal law. on the same day the applicant was questioned in the presence of s. and confirmed his earlier testimony of 5 november 2004 (see paragraph 10 above). on the same day s. familiarised himself with the case file. on 23 march 2005 the applicant complained to the daugavpils court that s. had convinced him to partially admit his guilt, although he had not wished to do so. on 7 april 2005 a first-instance hearing was held. on 1 september 2005 the applicant submitted several written applications to the daugavpils court. in his subsequent written application (“a refusal” (отвод)), the applicant relied on article 99 of the code of criminal procedure and asked the court to release d. from his duties. the written application stated that the applicant was refusing the services of d. on the grounds that all applications made to the court on 1 september 2005 had been drafted by the applicant, and d. had not shown any interest in asking the court to order the examination of witness statements about the scene of the crime, new psychiatric expert evidence, or the correction of the motive in the bill of indictment. d. had merely supported the above applications. in reply to the applicant’s application, d. presented the applicant’s letter of 20 june 2005 to the court and invited it to establish whether the applicant needed a lawyer at all. during the hearing of 24 october 2005 the applicant, referring to section 71 of the criminal procedure law (kriminālprocesa likums) (see paragraph 53 below), asked the court to ensure that his defence rights were respected. in reply to a question put by the court, the applicant confessed that he had stabbed the victim, but stated that he had not intended to kill him. in addition, the court relied on documentary evidence, such as the conclusions of the forensic psychiatric examination. on 8 november 2006 the applicant was represented by a state-appointed lawyer, v. at a hearing held on the same day the court read out witness statements and the applicant did not raise any objections to the statements in substance. when invited to ask questions, the applicant asked the court to call all the witnesses who had testified before the first-instance court again, in addition to some other witnesses. referring to the reasoning of the first-instance court, the regional court agreed that his refusal to accept the services of the two lawyers had been unjustified.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in tirana. by a final judgment of 21 june 1996 the tepelenë district court ordered the tepelenë district council (këshilli i rrethit) to pay the applicant 530,941 albanian leks (all) as compensation for the nationalisation of her house by the state in 1967. the judgment became final on an unspecified date in 1996. on 15 july 1998 an enforcement writ was issued. by a final judgment of 25 april 2008 the gjirokastër district court ordered the gjirokastër regional council (këshilli i qarkut) to pay the applicant all 1,237,336 as compensation for the delayed enforcement of the tepelenë district court decision of 21 june 1996. the judgment became final on 25 may 2008. on 27 june 2008 an enforcement writ was issued. from 1996 to 2009 the applicant had continuously addressed letters to the authorities for the enforcement of the final judgments. she also instituted enforcement proceedings before a bailiff. on 23 january 2009 the constitutional court acknowledged that there had been a breach of the fair trial as a result of the non-enforcement of the final judgments. on 8 december 2009 both judgments were enforced and the sums were paid to the applicant.
were born in 1939 and 1942 respectively and live in lauf. k., who had formerly been an employee of the l. bank, had illegally copied the data. the data carrier was submitted to the german tax investigation authorities, which subsequently instigated proceedings against, inter alia, the applicants, in relation to tax evasion crimes. according to the search warrant, the applicants had failed to declare about 50,000 euros (eur) of the yearly interest accrued from the capital of both the k. foundation and t.u. in their tax returns for the years 2002 to 2006. on 23 september 2008 the applicants’ flat was searched and one envelope containing l. bank documents and five computer files were seized. the applicants appealed against the search warrant. they argued that the warrant had not been granted in accordance with the law. the acquisition of the data had also violated domestic law, as the secret service had no authorisation to obtain tax data. on 8 april 2009 the bochum district court dismissed the appeal. the district court was also of the view that the search warrant in question could be issued on the basis of the information in the data carrier, as the secret service had only played a passive role in acquiring it. according to the court, there was no indication that the secret service had incited a third person to steal the data, and it had merely accepted the data from a third person when this person had offered it. on 11 september 2009 the applicants lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. the data purchase from k. had constituted a criminal act. moreover, the secret service had no authority under german law to purchase such data. they would thus have been obliged to declare the search warrant illegal. even if evidence was considered inadmissible in criminal proceedings, this did not automatically mean that the same was true for all stages of criminal investigations. in applying these general principles to the case at hand, the federal constitutional court ruled, at the outset, that it was not necessary to decide upon the question whether the acquisition of the data had been in breach of national or international law or violated the principle of the separation of the secret service and the prosecution in germany, as the regional court had departed in its decision from the applicants’ allegation that the evidence might in fact have been acquired in breach of domestic and international law, including criminal law. the federal constitutional court found that the fact that the regional court based its legal assessment on the assumption that the acquisition of the data had been in breach of domestic and/or international law was not arbitrary and hence could not be found to be in violation of article 13 of the basic law. furthermore, the federal constitutional court considered reasonable the district and regional court’s legal assessment that the principle of separation of the secret service and the prosecution had not been infringed, as the facts of the case did not show that the secret service had either ordered or coordinated the “data theft”, but had been offered the data on k.’s own initiative.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in a centre for persons in preventive detention in hamburg-fuhlsbüttel prison. on 28 march 1994 the lübeck regional court convicted the applicant of rape and sexual assault. the court found that in august 1986 the applicant, having acted with full criminal responsibility, had raped an eighteen-year-old woman whom he had lured into a forest. therefore, and having consulted a medical expert, the court found that the applicant had a propensity to commit serious sexual offences and was dangerous to the public. on 10 january 2002 the applicant, who had fully served his prison sentence, was placed for the first time in preventive detention, initially in lübeck prison. he had thus served ten years in preventive detention by 9 january 2012. furthermore, the applicant had already raped six women and had repeatedly reoffended shortly after his release. the expert had been heard in person by the regional court in different proceedings (concerning the applicant’s transfer to a psychiatric hospital, see paragraph 19 below) on 6 june 2012 and had updated and confirmed his previous findings. his assessment had further been shared by the hamburg-eppendorf university hospital in its statement dated 27 march 2012 on the therapeutic progress made by the applicant. the hospital, having regard to the voluminous case‑file, had confirmed expert b.’s conclusion that the applicant, who had refused any therapeutic treatment for years, suffered from a profound personality disorder as defined by the icd-10, namely a narcissistic personality disorder with emotionally unstable and sadistic elements. in these circumstances, the courts had not had at their disposal a sufficient basis for concluding that he had a mental disorder for the purposes of the therapy detention act. in any event, he did not suffer from a mental illness as required by article 5 § 1 (e) of the convention. for as long as the applicant’s detention was executed at that prison during the time covered by the proceedings at issue, the applicant, having refused repeated offers of treatment, in particular transfer to the social‑therapeutic institution of lübeck prison, apparently did not undergo any therapy for sexual offenders. his occasional conversations with the prison psychologists had been discontinued in may 2012. that centre was built in order to comply with the constitutional requirement, as defined by the federal constitutional court in its judgment of 4 may 2011, to differentiate between preventive detention and imprisonment. he was granted leave without escort from march 2014 onwards. prior to the proceedings at issue, on 14 june 2012 the lübeck regional court dismissed the prosecution’s request to transfer the applicant to a psychiatric hospital for the further execution of his preventive detention under article 67a § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 23 below). it was necessary for the applicant to undergo therapy for sex offenders in a social-therapeutic department in prison or possibly with an external social therapist. transferring the applicant, who was not willing to undergo therapy, to a psychiatric hospital against his will would not yield any success. there was a medium risk that the applicant would again commit serious sexual offences if released.
as of october 2013, he was serving a life sentence in kherson prison no. he also alleged that he had not been provided with any bed linen. furthermore, he was allegedly deprived of access to shower and had no facilities for shaving. according to the information note issued by the governor of the simferopol sizo on 29 november 2012 at the request of the government’s agent, the applicant was detained in the following cells:- from 19 november 2004 to 18 march 2005 and from 22 april to 23 november 2005 – in cell no. the case file contains a copy of the sizo governor’s decision of 24 november 2005 about the applicant’s placement in a separate cell of the maximum security unit on the ground of the prevention of the spread of tuberculosis (the applicant was then diagnosed with active tuberculosis). there was no hot water supply and cold water was supplied irregularly. the government noted, without further details, that wearing a special uniform was a legal requirement. furthermore, he was allegedly denied the opportunity to use the common shower facilities. during the period from may 2007 to december 2010 there were major repairs in the prison, which had allegedly caused the applicant such inconveniences as having to bear with a high level of noise and inhaling construction dust and paint smells. according to the government, the conditions of detention in the prison were in compliance with the standards established by the court. 8 (in which the applicant was detained at the time) measured 21 sq. the cell had natural ventilation and the window could be opened from inside. the toilet was separated from the living area. on 22 february 2002 he was discharged from it on the ground of his refusal from the treatment and his continued absence. on 11 october 2004 the itt governor wrote to the simferopol prosecutor that, according to the conclusion of a tuberculosis specialist of the same date, the applicant was suffering from an active form of tuberculosis and required further examination and inpatient treatment in a hospital environment. the applicant’s diagnosis remained the same and his x-raying showed no changes in the state of his lungs. on 18 october 2006 the applicant was transferred from the simferopol sizo to kherson prison no. it appears that the above recommendation had not been implemented. as a result, on 13 march 2009 he was referred again to the prison’s medical unit for inpatient treatment. on 5 may and 15 september 2009 he also refused from x-raying.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in london. in 1997 he and another british national, c.g., bought a plot of land in the glyfada district of athens. in 2002 the applicant secured an order from the athens court of first instance requiring the mortgage registry to register the deed of sale; the mortgage registry did so on 31 january 2003. the investigating judge also accused him of having used the forged documents to persuade the administrative authorities that the land was privately owned and could be the subject of a transaction, in particular a deed of transfer. who had taken an oath on 17 april 2003 to discharge that function. was not qualified and that her comments were incorrect. however, the applicant did not submit any reports by his own technical adviser. it eventually took place on 12, 14 and 20 march 2007. on 12 march 2007 counsel for the applicant asked the president of the criminal court of appeal to call m.m.k. the contents of which the court finds entirely convincing; in addition, the report’s credibility is backed up by the documents in the file and the witness testimony. on 20 march 2007 the applicant appealed against that judgment to the athens criminal court of appeal, sitting as a bench of five judges. the hearing, which had initially been set down for 6 february 2009, was adjourned until 20 november 2009 and subsequently 19 march 2010, as counsel for the defendant was unable to attend. the hearing eventually took place on 19, 26 and 29 march and 8 april 2010. at the end of the hearing, counsel for the defence asked the court of appeal to examine d.p. cannot be accepted as it is not deemed necessary in view of the evidence gathered so far. he alleged that there had been a violation of article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention in that he had been convicted solely on the basis of the report by m.m.k., without having been allowed to cross-examine her at the hearings in the courts of first instance and appeal. she had not appeared in court despite having been called to give evidence. nevertheless, the court rejected the requests in the following terms, on sufficient and substantiated grounds: ‘the defendants’ request to call the graphologist [m.m.k.]
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in mykolayiv. among other health conditions, he suffered from tuberculosis, aids and drug addiction. he also had an infected phlegmon (inflammation) on his right shin. was arrested on suspicion of drug-related crimes and placed in a temporary detention centre (“the itt”) belonging to the mykolayiv police. following the treatment the doctors considered that he could be held in detention facilities. the officer checked the cell and saw him with his mouth open, breathing heavily and repeating that he felt bad and needed air. itt officers removed him from the cell and took him to the entrance area to get some fresh air, where they carried out first aid. an ambulance arrived at 9.43 p.m. and confirmed that a.g. died from ischaemic heart disease, which had been aggravated by acute heart failure. linear strangulation bruises were found on his neck, which indicated interrupted asphyxiation. their decisions were quashed as unsubstantiated by supervising prosecutors and the courts, and further pre-investigation inquiries were ordered. on 14 december 2012 the authorities initiated criminal proceedings, in accordance with the 2012 code of criminal procedure. on 24 july 2013 the zavodskyy district court of mykolayiv quashed the decision of 27 march 2013 as unfounded, noting that the investigator had failed to take the necessary measures in the case. on 3 october 2013 the investigator terminated the criminal proceedings, concluding that there was no evidence to suggest that the itt staff had caused the death of the applicant’s son. he admitted that certain pieces of evidence could not be obtained. in particular, bed linen and a rope fashioned from bed linen, which had been found in the cell, could not be examined any further, as they had been destroyed after the post-mortem examination. for the same reasons, it was not possible to carry out a reconstruction of the events. he further noted that on 24 may 2007 a site inspection had been carried out, but no video-recordings or sketches of the scene had been made, and no photographs had been taken. had not had any acute condition necessitating his admission to hospital during his detention in the itt; on the other hand, he had been medically supervised within the itt. furthermore, his serious illnesses, such as the tuberculosis and hiv, suggested that his physical condition would have gradually deteriorated in any event.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kharkiv. late in the evening of 15 august 2010 the applicant had a fight with his neighbour. during that time the police officers put pressure on the applicant to admit that he had intended to murder his neighbour. samples of the substance were taken and submitted to an expert for examination. and g. they all denied the allegations of ill-treatment and submitted that the applicant had sustained the injuries before being taken to the police station, namely during the scuffle with his neighbour. on 11 april 2011 the court of appeal upheld the district court decision of 23 february 2011. on 10 may 2012 the district court reversed the decision of the prosecutor’s office of 29 october 2010, finding that the measures taken to examine the applicant’s allegations had been insufficient. according to the decision, which referred to the explanations by the police officers and other evidence, the applicant had left the police station at 9.45 a.m. on 16 august 2010 and there had been no involvement of the officers in any unlawful action in relation to the applicant. at 2.45 p.m. on 9 december 2010 an investigator with the district police arrested the applicant on suspicion of attempted murder. he further noted in his report that the applicant had been suspected of attempted murder, that he had a record of serious offences, and that his arrest would prevent the applicant from absconding and impeding the execution of a judgment. the investigator then charged the applicant and questioned him in relation to the case. on 16 december 2010 the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the decision of 10 december 2010, finding that there were sufficient grounds to keep him in custody. it stated that the applicant had been charged with a serious offence, that he was unemployed, had refused to admit his guilt, and that he had two serious offences on his criminal record. the court stated that the applicant had been charged with a serious offence, was unemployed, had a criminal record, and had refused to admit his guilt. on 12 march 2012 the applicant was released from custody after giving a written undertaking not to abscond. it sentenced the applicant to two years of restriction of liberty. on 9 december 2010, following his arrest and questioning (see paragraph 26 above), the applicant was placed in a police cell. on 14 december 2010 the applicant was examined by a forensic medical expert as requested (see paragraph 38 above). the expert considered the injuries to be minor and that they had been inflicted by blunt, solid objects during a period of between three to six days before the examination. in 2012, 2013 and 2015 he made applications to the district court in relation to his complaint, but to no avail.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in stara zagora. the applicant worked as head teacher in a secondary school in stara zagora. on 19 july 2002 the head of the regional education inspectorate (“the rei”) of the ministry of education dismissed the applicant on disciplinary grounds. the applicant brought a claim against the rei, challenging the order for her dismissal and seeking reinstatement and compensation for lost earnings. by a judgment of 2 april 2003 the stara zagora district court (районен съд) allowed the applicant’s claims. that judgment was upheld by the stara zagora regional court (окръжен съд) and the supreme court of cassation on 18 july 2003 and 24 november 2005 respectively. in the course of the proceedings, neither the opposing party nor any of the courts raised any doubts as to whether the rei was the correct defendant in the case. following the entry into force of the judgment of 24 november 2005, the applicant applied to take up her duties on 6 december 2005. on the same day a new order for her dismissal was issued by the head of the rei. on an unspecified date, at the latest in january 2006, the applicant lodged an appeal against the dismissal order with the stara zagora district court, challenging its lawfulness, and seeking reinstatement to her previous post and compensation for loss of income. it appears from the case file that at the first court hearing, the date of which was not specified, the rei argued that it was not the proper defendant in the case and that the claims had to be addressed to the secondary school in which the applicant had been working prior to her dismissal. the rei submitted that article 61 § 2 of the labour code and section 37(4) of the education act provided that the applicant’s employer was the school. during a court hearing on 12 april 2006 the district court ruled in favour of the objection, and, reasoning that the proper defendant in the case was the school, discontinued the proceedings. the applicant appealed against that decision before the stara zagora regional court. on 26 may 2006 the regional court quashed the decision of the lower court, explicitly stating that the proper defendant in the applicant’s case was the rei. it remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination on the merits. by a judgment of 8 december 2006 the district court allowed the applicant’s claims. following an appeal lodged by the rei, on 27 april 2007 the regional court upheld the judgment. the rei lodged an appeal on points of law. thus, the claims brought against it were unfounded.
the applicant, mr claus moog, was born in 1972 and lives in cologne. the applicant’s son, d., was born on 18 july 1998. d. has been living with his mother ever since. on 18 may 1999, upon the applicant’s request, the cologne family court (“the family court”) granted the applicant two visitation periods per week. on 16 november 2001, after the appointed psychology expert had informed the family court that he considered that contact with the father was in the child’s best interest, the parties concluded an in-court settlement according to which contact between the applicant and his son should be re-established. by the end of 2001, the applicant had visited the child twice in kindergarten. on 6 august 2003 the applicant again applied to have the family court impose a fine because ms k. was not cooperating. on 20 june 2005 ms k., after having been informed that the applicant had visited d. in his kindergarten, applied for the suspension of contact. on 15 november 2005 the family court heard testimony from the child, who declared that he did not wish to see his father anymore. on 11 march 2006 dr d. submitted her affidavit stating that the child had been deeply traumatised by being separated from his mother for forced contact with the applicant from the age of ten months, and by the increasingly hostile relationship between his parents. the child reacted to this excessive control in a violent manner. on 30 march 2007 the applicant lodged a fresh application for custody to be transferred to him. if he had appeared to react emotionally, this had presumably been provoked by his mother. according to this report dr d. highly recommended family therapy in order to prepare contact between the child and the applicant. on 9 july 2007 the family court imposed a coercive fine of eur 3,000 on ms k. on the ground that she had failed to meet her obligations under the court order of 24 april 2007. accordingly, it would suspend the contact proceedings pending the proceedings on custody rights, in which an expert opinion would be commissioned. this would seriously jeopardise his welfare. in view of the lack of co-operation from ms k., it had to be expected that forced contact would again traumatise the child. on 12 may 2009 the family court rejected the applicant’s application for custody while having regard to the fact that neither the appointed guardian ad litem nor the expert had been able to examine ms k. and the child owing to ms k.’s refusal. only a period of respite could give d. the feeling that he could decide on his own whether he wished to see his father.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in vlora. on 30 may 2007 the vlora district court ordered the vlora construction police (policia e ndërtimit dega vlorë) to pay the applicant 2,795,956 albanian leks (“all”) for the unjustified destruction of his property. on 11 june 2008 the decision was upheld by the vlora court of appeal and became final. on 11 september 2008 an enforcement writ was issued. from 2009 to 2012 the bailiff unsuccessfully sought the enforcement of the decision from the vlora construction police and the national urban construction inspectorate (inspektorati ndërtimor urbanistik kombëtar). to date, the final decision has remained unenforced.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in hm prison dovegate, uttoxeter. the minimum period (“tariff”) was set at two years, eight and a half months, less time spent on remand. on 26 may 2005 it decided not to direct his release but recommended that he be transferred to open conditions. that recommendation was rejected by the secretary of state. at the conclusion of its statement of reasons for rejecting the board’s recommendation, the national offender management service (“noms”) wrote:“the secretary of state has therefore decided that you should remain in closed conditions and your next review will conclude in january 2008.” this consideration will take place approximately 12 weeks prior to your provisional hearing [in january 2008]. the case was referred to the parole board on 21 december 2007. on 6 may 2008 the applicant and the parole board were sent relevant reports as required by the applicable rules. on 8 october 2008 the parole board received the further reports requested. the hearing took place on 8 january 2009. on 23 january 2009 the parole board directed the applicant’s release. he was granted permission to bring proceedings on 13 october 2008. on 5 june 2009 the claim was dismissed by the high court. leave to appeal was granted by the court of appeal on 27 october 2009. damages on the basis of a loss of liberty were therefore appropriate. it distinguished between cases where the delay had merely led to feelings of frustration and those where it had been established that, but for the delay in the holding of the hearing, the applicant would have been released earlier. the applicant sought leave to appeal to the supreme court on the ground that the award was inadequate. 25119/09, 57715/09 and 57877/09, 18 september 2012. as regards the alleged violation of article 5 § 1 of the convention, lord reed, giving the leading opinion, observed that article 5 § 4 provided a procedural entitlement designed to ensure that persons were not detained in violation of their rights under article 5 § 1. he considered that no clear guidance could be derived from the cases since none concerned awards for loss of liberty resulting from a violation of the speedy decision guarantee in article 5 § 4.
the applicant was born in 1977 and prior to his arrest his permanent address had been in svitlovodsk, kirovograd region. on 26 june 2014 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of committing a drug-related offence and on 7 july 2014 placed in kirovograd remand prison no. on 27 june 2014 the svitlovodsk court remanded the applicant in custody. the applicant appealed, arguing in particular that he was suffering from hcv. on 6 august, 27 november and 3 december 2014 and on 9 january and 4 june 2015 the applicant consulted the prison doctor, complaining in particular of discomfort in the hypochondrium (below the lower ribs), on the right-hand side. on 13 august 2014 the prison’s medical unit issued a certificate stating that the applicant, according to his own statement, was suffering from hcv and that during his stay in the prison he had consulted the prison doctor on several occasions in this connection and received treatment for his symptoms. on 3 december 2014 the prison governor informed the applicant’s lawyer that on 6 august and 27 november 2014 the applicant had consulted the prison doctor concerning his hcv and had been prescribed treatment for his symptoms. on 3 march 2015 a blood test, apparently an hcv antibody test, came up positive. the certificate also stated that in order to ascertain the state of his health the applicant needed to be examined by an infectious diseases specialist of the kirovograd central city hospital (“the city hospital”). on 19 june 2015 the acting president of the section, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, decided to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialised doctor of the city hospital; secure for the applicant immediately, by appropriate means, treatment to his state of health; and inform the court by 17 july 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken. from 6 until 9 july 2015 the applicant underwent an in-patient examination at the city hospital in the course of which a number of blood tests and an ultrasound examination were conducted and the applicant was examined by a number of specialists. he was prescribed hepatoprotectors (carsil and ursohol). on 26 august 2015 the court invited the government to comment on those allegations. on 1 september 2015 the applicant started to be treated with hepatoprotector medicine. on 15 september 2015 he was consulted by a gastroenterologist and an infectious diseases specialist, who confirmed the diagnosis of inactive chronic hepatitis. on 15 september 2015 the government informed the court of the measures taken from 1 to 15 september 2015. diagnosing and treating hepatitis in patients was not a priority for remand prisons’ medical units. in practice it was difficult to get hepatitis diagnosed and treated. where this happened, treatment was mainly conducted at the expense of relatives and friends, who furnished medications to prisoners. on 29 april 2013 the cabinet of ministers approved a state programme for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of viral hepatitis for the period until the end of 2016.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is detained in saint-petersburg. on 22 april 2004 he was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 24 april 2004 the vyborgskiy federal district court of saint-petersburg authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 7 february 2005 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention. the court referred to the gravity of charges, the applicant’s character, lack of permanent residence in saint-petersburg, and risk of absconding or re-offending. on 7 april 2005 the district court returned the case to the prosecutor and extended the applicant’s detention without specifying any reasons. on 15 september 2005, 21 october 2005 and 15 december 2005 when extending pre-trial detention, the district court reproduced the grounds for detention described above. on 2 march 2006 the saint-petersburg city court quashed the detention order of 15 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 16 march 2006, 22 march 2006 and 21 june 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention referring to the gravity of charges, absence of permanent residence, his character, possibility of absconding and committing crimes. the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 21 june 2006. on 30 june 2006 the vyborgskiy district court of saint-petersburg convicted the applicant of murder and theft. on 31 january 2007 the saint-petersburg city court upheld his conviction on appeal. as regards the applicant’s appeal against the detention order of 21 june 2006, the court noted that the lower court had failed to ensure the applicant’s and his lawyer’s presence at the hearing of 21 june 2006. however, in view of the applicant’s conviction, it discontinued the appeal proceedings finding them unnecessary.
mr semenov was born in 1959 and lives in tver. ms bachurina was born on 8 november 1978 and lived before her arrest in the village of strelnitsa, voronezh region. on 13 april 2006 mr semenov was arrested on suspicion of several counts of aggravated bribery. on 17 april 2006 the tsentralniy district court of tver ordered his placement in custody. the detention was further extended by the district court on 11 july and 11 september 2006. mr semenov appealed: on 14 july 2006 against the detention order of 11 july 2006 and on 12 september 2006 against the order of 11 september 2006. on 22 august and 3 october 2006, respectively, the tver regional court dismissed the appeals and upheld the detention orders. on 11 october 2006 the regional court extended mr semenov’s detention. nine days later mr semenov lodged an appeal statement with the russian supreme court via the regional court. on 16 november 2006 the regional court dispatched the case-file to the supreme court which on 11 january 2007 upheld the decision of 11 october 2006. on 26 december 2006 the regional court once again extended the detention. between 11 and 30 january 2007 mr semenov and his co-defendants lodged their appeals with the supreme court via the regional court. on 1 march 2007 the regional court transmitted the case-file to the supreme court which on 11 april 2007 upheld the order. the case of ms bachurina (application no. on 14 july 2007 ms bachurina was arrested on suspicion of attempted large scale trafficking of drugs. two days later the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow authorised her detention. on 19 july 2007 ms bachurina appealed against the detention order. the detention order was upheld on appeal by the moscow city court on 27 august 2007.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lived, prior to his arrest, in krasnogorsk, moscow region. on 5 july 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the material time, was arrested on suspicion of abuse of official powers causing serious damage. on 10 july 2007 he was formally charged with the imputed crime. subsequently he was additionally charged with embezzlement on a large scale as part of an organised criminal group. on 6 july 2007 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the ground of the gravity of charges. the court also reasoned that he might put pressure on witnesses, destroy evidence or interfere with investigation. on 3 september 2007, 11 december 2007, 10 april 2008 and 1 july 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention stating that the investigation was still pending, the case comprised 118 volumes and concerned fifteen suspects, the applicant had been suspected of a serious crime, could interact with his accomplices, abscond, destroy evidence and threaten witnesses. the court also took into account the applicant’s state of health, character and family status however it did not provide any detailed arguments in this respect. on 30 december 2008 and 20 april 2009 the district court issued collective detention orders in respect of the applicant and other co-accused pending their study of the case-file. the court referred to the gravity of the charges, the defendants’ possibility to abscond, commit crimes and interfere with the investigation. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected. on 9 june 2010 the moscow city court acquitted the applicant of all charges.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. an eu-russia summit was scheduled for 17 and 18 may 2007 to take place in samara. he was accompanied by several activists who were also travelling to the rally. the parties have submitted different versions of events as to what then happened. five other persons from his group were escorted from the check-in hall in the same manner. at the bottom of the record, the applicant has written that it had been explained to him that the search and seizure could be appealed to a higher authority and that, while the record had been handed to him at 1 p.m., the actual seizure of the ticket by officer a. had taken place at 8.30 a.m. at the check-in desk. on the statement the applicant has written that the ticket was obtained legally and that, relying on article 51 of the constitution (the right against self-incrimination) he refused to give any further explanation because he had been detained illegally in the departure hall without explanation. at the same time, they indicated that we have to provide an explanation to the police officers because some tickets were allegedly forged. those tickets were confiscated and the passengers who had presented them were prevented from boarding. if it had been, the applicant would have been able to make a written comment to that effect in the search record which had been drawn up by the police, but he had not done so. during the check [they] discovered thirteen plane tickets with traces of forgery, which were seized. [the police] seized the tickets and removed the passengers from the flight. [ on 18 may 2007 [s.], together with [the operative officer a.b.] together with the [airport security screening service] they checked all passengers, which included screening their luggage with special equipment and checking their documents. moreover, several passengers decided not to fly, without explaining why. ...the [sales director of the airline] confirmed that the tickets were issued and sold [in a normal manner]. on 20 july 2007 the golovinskiy district court of moscow examined and rejected the applicant’s appeal. it noted that the applicant had complained to the prosecutor’s office about his five-hour detention and about the seizure of his ticket to samara. it upheld the finding that no criminal offence could be imputed to the police officers in question. he had not been “isolated” at the police station.
the first applicant, ms jenőné barcza, was born in 1962 and lives in solymár; the second applicant, ms jánosné básits, was born in 1957 and lives in dunabogdány; the third applicant, mr lászló pávai, was born in 1930 and lived in leányfalu. the applicants were co-owners of a vacant plot of land situated in the urban area of the municipality of leányfalu. according to this decision, the applicants’ property, together with other plots of land, formed part of the protection zone. that decision also quashed the obligation to proceed with compensation for the landowners within sixty days. by a decision of 4 october 2005 the szentendre district land registry redesignated the applicants’ plot of land as an “inner protection zone”. under the law, owners of land within the water protection zone were under an obligation to refrain from any activity that could endanger water quality or lead to pollution and from constructing any facility that did not serve the purposes of the water reserve. on 12 april 2006 the ministry instructed the danube regional waterworks inc. ( the managing body of the water reserve, that the expropriation fell within the waterworks’ competence. accordingly, the applicants made a new representation to the ministry on 31 october 2007, asking it to make an offer within thirty days of receipt of the letter. on 11 august 2008 the owners of the plots of land, including the applicants, asked the central hungarian regional administration office (közép-magyarországi regionális közigazgatási hivatal) to instruct the ministry to proceed with the expropriation by setting a time-limit. their request was dismissed on 11 august 2008. according to the administration office, the owners had first requested the expropriation of their properties on 31 october 2007, thus the statutory three-year period during which the ministry could acquire the property had not expired. the owners sought judicial review of this decision. the applicants disputed the amount of the compensation; nevertheless, the case file indicates that they never received an answer to their submissions. seeking the enforcement of the compulsory expropriation decision. the application was granted by the government office; despite this national asset management inc. did not respond to any of the measures taken by the government office. accordingly, the government office proceeded with the expropriation of its own motion, commissioning an expert opinion and holding hearings. finally, the decision on the expropriation of the applicants’ plot of land was issued by the government office on 16 december 2011, establishing the amount of compensation at huf 39,170,000 (approximately eur 126,000). the applicants received the compensation on 27 january 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in beograd. hereinafter “the debtor”) was sentenced for fraud in criminal proceedings and ordered to pay 18, 425 serbian dinars (rsd) to pp reprek, a company based in serbia and owned by the applicant. on 17 december 1998 the said company filed with the district court in belgrade a request for enforcement based on the judgment in said criminal proceedings. following an order to specify a motion for enforcement, the decision on enforcement was adopted on 29 april 1999. on 15 october 1999 the enforcement court ordered the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor. on 7 february 2000 the bailiff noted that the debtor had moved away to an unknown address. on 27 october 2000 the case was adjourned. on 7 may 2005 the applicant requested the continuation of the enforcement proceedings on behalf of his company. on 4 october 2005 the enforcement court again ordered the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor. by letter of 21 october 2005, the ministry informed the enforcement court of the debtor’s address. on 18 november 2005 the bailiff went to the address provided by the said ministry and established that the debtor was no longer living there and that he had moved away to an unknown address. on 20 january 2006 the enforcement court requested the ministry of interior to provide the exact address of the debtor and his latest known place of residence. on 24 october 2006 the enforcement court informed the applicant that the ministry did not establish the exact address of the debtor nor did it initiate misdemeanour proceedings against the debtor in accordance with article 25 of the domicile and temporary residence act (see paragraph 22). on 31 may 2007 the insolvency proceedings against the applicant’s company “reprek” were completed. the said company ceased to exist and all its assets were transferred to the applicant. the enforcement court adjourned the case on 31 march 2010.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lived, prior to arrest and conviction, in cheboksary. on 27 january 2004 the applicant was arrested. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 7 october 2005 the leninskiy district court of cheboksary convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to six years and nine months’ imprisonment. on 13 december 2005 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction on appeal. the court reduced the applicant’s sentence to five years and ten months. on 22 june 2007 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic quashed the judgments of 7 october and 13 december 2005 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 11 july 2007 the leninskiy district court ordered the applicant to stay in prison pending trial. on 22 november 2007 the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention, having noted that:“... taking into account the seriousness of the charges against [the applicant], his health condition, personal profile, a possibility that he might abscond, the court considers that the previous measure of restraint should remain unchanged ...” 11. on 5 february 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld this decision on appeal. by decision of 24 december 2007, as upheld on appeal, the leninskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for three months. having heard the parties, the court ruled that:“... as it can be seen from the case file, [the applicant] has been accused of a serious crime, which is punishable with an imprisonment exceeding two years. the grounds, which were used to put him in custody ..., have not ceased to apply. being at large, [the applicant] may abscond and continue his criminal activity...” 13. on 27 march 2008 the leninskiy district court convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to five years and ten months’ imprisonment. on 1 july 2008 the supreme court of the chuvash republic upheld his conviction appeal.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in neftekamsk, bashkortostan republic. on 4 september 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of causing and inciting prostitution of minors and unlawful breaking and entering. the court considers that [a less strict] restrictive measure cannot be applied.” the applicant remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 15 july and 20 october 2009, 20 january, 15 april, 16 june, 19 august and 15 november 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic extended the applicant’s detention pending trial. each time the supreme court issued a collective detention order in respect of five defendants, including the applicant, and noted that the circumstances underlying their remand in custody had not ceased to exist. the applicant’s appeals were to no avail. on 27 december 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic found the applicant guilty of several counts of causing and inciting prostitution of minors, abuse of power and unlawful breaking and entering. he was acquitted of organisation of a criminal gang and one count of causing and inciting prostitution of minors. on 21 july 2011 the applicant was released on parole. following the remand in custody on 5 september 2008, the applicant was detained in remand prison no. iz 3/5 in dyurtyuli where he was detained until 12 october 2009. on 27 february 2009 the applicant sent a letter to the court alleging a violation of his right to liberty and asking the court to send him an application form. his letter was registered as application no. on 17 april 2009 the court sent a letter to the applicant which contained an application form to be filled out. in the letter the court advised the applicant that he was to submit a completed application form by 12 june 2009. according to the stamp on the court’s letter of 17 april 2009, the correctional colony received it on 2 september 2009. then the administration of the correctional colony sent the letter back to remand prison no. the remand prison received it on 14 september 2009 and forwarded it to remand prison no. the letter arrived there on 2 october 2009 and on the same day the applicant received it (according to the applicant, he received the letter on 5 october 2009).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kaunas. the apartment was pledged to the bank as collateral. both loans were administered by a state bank, the state commercial bank of lithuania (hereinafter “the bank”). the right to restoration of title in respect of 1.47 hectares of land in kaunas. ’s land, as established by the kaunas district court (see paragraph 7 above), had been incorrect, and recommended that the kca suspend the restoration of property rights in respect of any land which had previously been considered as belonging to s.f. subsequently the kaunas regional prosecutor (hereinafter “the prosecutor”), at the request of the kca and relying on the findings of the audit report, asked the domestic courts to reopen the civil proceedings concerning the size of s.f. in the reopened proceedings, on 30 april 2003 the kaunas district court determined that s.f. on 9 november 2004 the kca asked the ministry of finance to resume the cancellation of debt with regard to the applicant and other individuals (see paragraph 9 above). on 6 december 2004 the ministry of finance issued a certificate confirming the cancellation of the applicant’s outstanding debt to the state, amounting to ltl 112,896 (eur 32,697). on that same day the bank received the certificate from the ministry and cancelled the applicant’s debt. it appears that from 23 october 2001 to 6 december 2004 the applicant did not make any loan repayments to the bank and the bank did not request any such payments. however, until september 2002 she was paying interest and late payment fines under the two loan agreements, and paid a total of ltl 5,222.26 (eur 1,512.47). on 7 february 2005 the kaunas district court seized the applicant’s apartment and informed her that, following her failure to repay the debt under the loan agreement of 2000 within one month, the apartment would be sold at auction. on 22 february 2006 the kaunas district court granted the bank’s civil claim in part. the applicant appealed against that judgment, but on 1 june 2006 the kaunas regional court dismissed her appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment in its entirety. as submitted by the applicant and not disputed by the government, on an unspecified date in 2006 the applicant paid ltl 10,231.23 (eur 2,963.17) in interest and late payment fines requested by the bank under that agreement. on 26 april 2007 the applicant submitted to the kaunas regional administrative court a civil claim for damages against the kca only. the kca had acted lawfully and diligently by suspending the restoration of the property rights and initiating the reopening of the proceedings. accordingly, the court concluded that the kca had acted lawfully and there were no grounds to award damages to the applicant. accordingly, the supreme administrative court concluded that the kca could not be held responsible for the suspension of the restoration of the applicant’s property rights and the cancellation of her debt, and thus there were no grounds to award her damages.
the applicants were born in 1947 and 1950, respectively. the first applicant, mr kryukov, lives in kolpashevo, the tomsk region. the second applicant, mr lantsev, died on 28 october 2007. on 10 march 2008 his widow, ms raisa pavlovna lantseva, stated her wish to pursue the complaint of her late husband before the court. on 30 june 1997 the applicants were dismissed from work on the grounds of redundancy. on 17 july 1997 the applicants sued their former employer for reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 17 october 1997 the aforesaid judgment was quashed further to the applicants’ appeal by the tomsk regional court and the case was remitted for fresh examination. on 16, 20 and 22 january 1998 the applicants amended their claims. on 18 march 1998 the hearing was adjourned until 20 april 1998 at the defendant’s request in view of its representative’s health condition. on 23 april 1998 the town court allowed the applicants’ claims in part. on 25 november and 8 december 1998 the hearings were adjourned at the applicants’ request. on 15 december 1998 the applicants further amended their claims and asked for a forensic accountant to be appointed. the proceedings were adjourned until 11 february 1999 to allow the accountant to prepare his report. on 11 february 1999 the applicants lodged a new claim. by the judgment of 11 february 1999 the town court partly allowed the applicants’ claims. on 23 april 1999 the regional court quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case for fresh examination. on 26 august and 30 november 1999 the hearings were adjourned. on 15 february 2000 the judgment was upheld on appeal by the regional court. on 31 july and 31 october 2002 and 27 may 2003 the applicants lodged new claims. on 4 june 2003 the proceedings were stayed as the defendant company was in the process of reorganisation which lasted until 19 july 2004.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tambov. on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of tambov (“the district court”) ordered the tambov town administration to pay the applicant approximately 776,150 russian roubles (rub) in social benefits and inflation losses, and recalculated regular payments received by the applicant due to his participation in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. the judgment entered into force on 3 november 2006. on 7 november 2006 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 october 2006. on 29 november 2007 the judgment of 23 october 2006 was executed, i.e. in approximately one year and one month after it became final. on 1 august 2008 the district court awarded the applicant rub 87,060.05 of interest and rub 5,000 in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in respect of the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 23 october 2006. the decision came into force on 10 september 2008 and was fully enforced on 24 november 2008.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived, prior to his arrest in st petersburg. on 20 december 2005 the applicant was put on the wanted list on suspicion of a murder and gangsterism. on 17 july 2007 the vyborskiy district court of st petersburg remanded the applicant in custody in absentia. on 20 october 2007 the applicant was arrested in hungary. on 13 september 2008 he was extradited to russia and placed in detention. on 28 april 2009 the st petersburg city court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant’s attempt to abscond. the applicant remained in detention pending investigation and trial. the court concisely reiterated in its detention orders the above reasons and stated that the applicant might interfere with investigation, commit crimes, threaten witnesses and that he could not be released on bail. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected on the following dates: date of the detention orderdate of the introduction of the appealdate of the appeal hearing28 april 20094 may 20092 july 20094 may 20098 may 20092 july 200919 august 200931 august 200922 october 200914 october 200916 october 200921 december 200914 january 201018 january 201016 february 201015 february 201018 february 201026 april 2010 11. on 29 april 2010 the saint-petersburg city court convicted him of murder and gangsterism and sentenced him to 16 years’ imprisonment. on 7 october 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld this decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1967 and until his conviction lived in ivdel, a town in the sverdlovsk region. in april 2000 the applicant was arrested on charges of murder and arson. on 24 july 2000, as the investigation unfolded, the local official newspaper the north star printed an interview with a deputy town prosecutor about a spike in murder rates. the prosecutor said:“in the first half of 2000 our town reported fourteen murders – a historic high, it seems. twelve of them have already been solved, thanks to the industry of the police department and the investigators from the prosecutor’s office....the fingerprint identification of ex-convict [n.b.] ( whose body was found in [a river]) has allowed to discover his enemies and to prove that he was beaten by three inhabitants of ivdel seeking [...] to settle scores for his murder of [another man] for which [he] had served almost nine years. ’s] two murderers – [the applicant’s codefendant] and s. turyev, both ex-convicts – were complicit in the early‑march murder of [l.r.] who had dared to report them to the police for past wrongs. [ her] body was dumped in a wood near the airport and was found only in may. as those crimes were not solved in time, [the applicant’s codefendant] rampaged on and on 20 april killed [another woman] who had witnessed the night-time arson at vizhayskaya street that had killed five. and [the other woman] (whose body was found in a well next to the sports centre) had been garrotted with a wire. all three persons arrested in this multicount case will undergo forensic psychiatric observation because of the gravity of the crimes committed, which carry up to twenty years or life in prison. but even after these downright senseless murders, the crime wave in the town continued.” when the case came to trial before the sverdlovsk regional court, the applicant moved to disqualify the prosecutor for the prejudice apparent in that interview. on 4 october 2002 the court refused the motion because the prosecutor had only cited facts from the investigative file, had affirmed the applicant’s complicity but not his guilt, and was not personally interested in the outcome of the trial. on 22 january 2003 the court sentenced the applicant to twenty years’ imprisonment for arson and the murders of n.b. on 23 october 2003 the supreme court upheld the sentence, leaving unanswered the applicant’s complaint about the press interview. in reply to a post-conviction complaint brought by the applicant, in december 2004 the sverdovsk regional prosecutor’s office found that the interview had breached the agency’s ethics policy as it had preceded the trial without, however, tangibly redressing the applicant.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for various crimes. they were arrested and detained pending investigation and trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotyped formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. the first applicant was born in 1973 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region. in 2007 the applicant was arrested in ukraine. on 24 may 2008 he was extradited to russia and was placed in pre-trial detention until 27 december 2010 when he was released on bail. on 22 april 2011 the kirovskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted him of fraud. the second applicant was born in 1978 and lived, prior to his arrest, in angarsk, irkutsk region. on 23 september 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud. on 25 september 2007 the court remanded him in custody. on 24 june 2010 the irkutsk regional court convicted the applicant of fraud. the third applicant was born in 1967 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg. the applicant was arrested on 16 august 2012. on 17 august 2012 the court held to place him in pre-trial detention. on 10 october 2013 the sverdlovsk regional court convicted the applicant of trespass, battery, robbery and sexual assault.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lived in cheboksary before his conviction. he is currently serving a sentence in novocheboksarsk. on 8 september 2006 g. was found dead in her flat with several gunshot wounds. this course of events was reported by police officers ch. shortly before 6 a.m. on 7 october 2006 the applicant was given first aid by the ambulance service, which diagnosed him with a closed head injury, concussion and bruises of the soft tissue on the face and on both feet. and f. after surgery his right foot was in plaster and his left foot had a weight fixed to it. at 1.10 p.m. on 10 october 2006 an investigator from the district police drew up a record of the applicant’s arrest at 1 p.m. that day as a suspect in the theft case. the judgment entered into force on 5 april 2007. 217 had been inspected and no weights had been found. (iv)  a refusal on 27 october 2008 was overruled on 28 october 2008 on the grounds that the investigative committee of chuvashiya acknowledged that investigator s. had been found liable in disciplinary proceedings for stalling the inquiry and issuing unlawful and unsubstantiated decisions based on an incomplete inquiry. in the most recent refusal issued on 2 december 2008 investigator a. from the cheboksary investigative committee found that the applicant, who had been wanted in the theft case, had been arrested and taken to the police station and remained there on suspicion of committing it. and f. had handcuffed him lawfully in order to guard him and prevent him from escaping or harming himself or others. he had been handcuffed in hospital to prevent him from attempting to escape again. his allegations that he had been subjected to physical violence had not been confirmed. and f. they said that after the applicant’s arrest on 6 october 2006 they had interviewed him in room no. 217 about the theft and the murder of g. of which he had been suspected. in september 2006, after the murder of g., the applicant had been hospitalised for a drug overdose, but had not been arrested because after the hospital had alerted the police he had managed to escape. access to the window had been blocked by the table. it had been possible to reach and open it while sitting at the table. the decision of 2 december 2008 also referred to the applicant’s statements that immediately before his arrest he had been drinking, and to statements by the investigator from the district police and a police officer who had guarded the applicant at the hospital on 9 october 2006 that the applicant had allegedly stated off the record that he had jumped out of the window himself trying to flee, without any influence by the police officers.
the applicants are russian nationals who live in kizel, perm region. their names and dates of birth are tabulated below. the applicants sued the municipal unitary enterprise “gorvodokanal” (муп «горводоканал») (hereafter “the company”) for salary arrears. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided water supply in the town of kizel. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. on 7 september 2006 the company was declared insolvent and its liquidation started. in 2007 and 2009 domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in the applicants’ favour, to be paid by the company. particulars of each judgment are summarised in the appended table. on the dates listed in the appendix the awards became enforceable. the applicants alleged that the judgments had remained unenforced. according to the government, all the judgments, except the one delivered on 16 october 2009 in mr martov’s favour, had been fully enforced in december 2007-april 2010. the judgment of 16 october 2009 had not been enforced since mr martov had failed to submit the execution writ to the liquidator. the government corroborated their statements by a certificate issued by the company’s liquidator on 6 february 2012. according to that document, the judgment of 1 august 2007 in mr martov’s favour had been enforced in full, whereas the execution writ issued in 2009 had never reached the liquidator. the document says nothing about other applicants. the applicants submitted to the court a copy of a letter they had received from the prosecutor’s office of kizel, dated 3 june 2011. according to the letter, in november 2009 mr martov submitted to the liquidator the execution writ in respect of the judgment of 16 october 2009.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lived, prior to his arrest, in irkutsk. on 14 may 2008 the applicant was arrested. on an unspecified date he was charged with three counts of pimping and pandering, extortion and illegal keeping of firearms. on 5 march 2009 he was committed for trial before the oktyabrskiy district court of irkutsk. on 3 august 2009 the district court extended his pre-trial detention on the ground that the circumstances of the case had not changed since the applicant’s arrest, he was accused of a serious crime, did not live at his domicile, hence he could abscond, threaten witnesses and interfere with the investigation. on 26 november 2009 and 2 march 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention referring to the above grounds and stating that the victims of his crimes were minors. the court also took into account the applicant’s character, his state of health and age. the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders were rejected. on 29 march 2010 the district court convicted him as charged.
during the autumn of 2004 the applicant assembled several explosive devices with the purpose of extorting money from commercial banks in order to donate the proceeds to orphans. he then planted another explosive device equipped with a timer and accompanied by a threatening note. criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant; however he was diagnosed with schizotypal personality disorder. he moved to the republic of altay, where he registered for psychiatric supervision with the local psychiatric hospital. in april 2012 his schizotypal personality disorder condition was noted several times as being in stable remission. the relevant parts of the panel’s report read as follows:“[the report begins with a detailed account of the applicant’s personal and medical history with a special accent on the events related to the assembly and use of explosive devices and his subsequent involuntary treatment in psychiatric facilities.] in recent months the attending psychiatrist has observed changes in his mental state – mood swings from depression to hypomania, statements about ‘social pressure’, and conflicts with local and regional public bodies. since his admission refused to discuss his condition, actions, behaviour, reasoning that ‘this whole situation is a political conspiracy of mr b. and his team’; considers medical personnel and doctors to be ‘accomplices’, ‘you are in with b.’s gang’. refuses to consume food and to give samples for analysis. suspicious of all statements and actions directed at him. on monday, 17 september 2012 the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29 (a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. on the same day the gorno-altayskiy town court (горно-алтайский городской суд, hereinafter “the town court”) received the application and extended the applicant’s detention until 20 september 2012. on 19 september 2012 the town court granted the application for the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation. the hearing was attended by the applicant, his counsel mr m., the representative of the hospital, and the prosecutor. upon an application by the prosecutor, the court ordered that the hearing be held in camera in order to protect the applicant’s privacy in respect of his medical condition; the applicant himself and his representative objected to that decision. schizotypal personality disorder in acute state. the court considers that the report of the medical counselling panel was prepared by competent professionals in the relevant field of studies, and due consideration was given to the clinical history of mr makarov ... the report contains the symptoms [showing the severity of mr makarov’s condition], it states the diagnosis. there are no reasons to doubt the objectivity and impartiality of the experts. on 29 october 2012 his counsel lodged an additional statement of appeal. on 14 november 2012 the supreme court of the republic of altay (верховный суд республики алтай) dismissed the appeal and upheld the lower court’s order as well-reasoned and lawful.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in shuya, in the ivanovo region. the applicant sued her former employer (the ministry of internal affairs of the republic of kalmykiya, hereafter “the ministry”). on 27 october 1999 the elista town court of the republic of kalmykiya (“the town court”) awarded the applicant monthly payments as compensation for damage to her health, with subsequent index-linked adjustment in accordance with changes in the statutory minimum monthly salary. the judgment came into force on 9 november 1999. 152-fz was adopted, which, inter alia, amended the procedure for index-linking compensation awards for damage to health. according to the new law, such payments were to be adjusted in accordance with changes in the level of inflation. the minimum monthly salary no longer served as the basis for index-linking. in november 2006 the ministry applied the new method of index‑linking, and recalculated the monthly payments to be paid to the applicant. this resulted in a decrease in the actual monthly amount she received from 10,370.51 russian roubles (rub) to rub 7,396.59, as established in march 2007. the applicant initiated three sets of proceedings, claiming delay interest in respect of three distinct periods. on 22 february and 3 april 2007 (upheld on 20 july 2007) the justice of the peace of elistinskiy court circuit no. on 22 february 2007 the judge agreed with the applicant’s calculation of the delay interest (based on the index-linking of the monthly payments in accordance with the changes in the statutory minimum monthly salary). on 3 april 2007 the court calculated the delay interest based on the amount of the monthly payments, as index-linked in line with the rate of inflation. on 7 may 2007 the justice of the peace refused the applicant’s claim for the delay interest. on 8 august 2007 the town court quashed the above decision and ordered the ministry to pay the delay interest as calculated by the applicant. the court held that, in the absence of a relevant judicial decision, the ministry had unlawfully changed the mode of index-linking ordered by the judgment of 27 october 1999. on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of the republic of kalmykiya upheld the decision of the town court. according to the government, the amount due to the applicant from august 2009 onwards was paid to her in full on 8 october 2009. on 11 november 2009 the town court awarded her delay interest for late payment in respect of the delays in payment between september and october 2009. the judgment came into force on 23 november 2009, and was executed on 9 december 2009.
he owned a house with a yard in plovdiv, which were expropriated in 1982 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство) with a view to constructing a residential building. the expropriation decision stated that the applicant was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct. on an unspecified date the flat due in compensation was constructed and delivered. however, the applicant never received the garage which had also been due to him. in april 2008 the applicant complained to the plovdiv municipality of the failure to provide him with a garage. by a letter of 11 june 2008 the deputy mayor of plovdiv informed him that the municipality had no garages available and that it was currently constructing a building with underground garages, one of which could be offered to him. in february 2010 the applicant wrote once again to the municipality, and was informed in reply that the construction of the building mentioned earlier had not been completed. in 2014 the municipality offered the applicants’ heirs a garage, which the latter refused as it was situated at more than ten kilometers from their place of residence.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in pernik. her mother owned a house with a yard in the city, which were expropriated in 1978 on the basis of section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”) with a view to constructing a highway. it was stated in the expropriation decision that the applicant’s mother was to be compensated with a three-room flat, and the applicant was to receive a two‑room flat. the flat that the applicant’s mother was due was constructed and provided to her in 1985. until then the family lived in a municipally-owned dwelling. the expropriated house was pulled down in 1986. in a decision of 14 july 2000, issued on the basis of section 100 of the tupa, the pernik mayor indicated the exact flat to be provided to the applicant. it measured 75 square metres and was situated in a building under construction. it was stated in the decision that the flat’s value was 22,424.84 bulgarian levs (bgn), although it was not specified whether this amount took into account the value of the expropriated properties. later on in 2000 the applicant paid to the municipality bgn 28,000 for the flat’s value; it is unclear how this amount was arrived at. the building where the flat was situated was completed in 2003, but the flat that the applicant was due was never handed over to her. the applicant was told that it had been transferred by the municipality to third parties. in the following years the applicant and her mother filed complaints with the regional governor, the prime minister and the parliament. the authorities have not yet fulfilled their obligation to provide the applicant with a flat. the applicant states that she does not have another dwelling and that together with her husband and children she has been living with her parents in their flat.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in prague. ...[i]t is a long-lasting disorder which cannot be completely repaired even by treatment that is fully successful. ... at the same time, it ordered an expert opinion in psychiatry. from the record of the visit it appears that the applicant was unable to express himself coherently. the applicant’s guardian noted on the same day that the applicant’s parents could no longer take care of him; his mother had apparently talked to her son about his placement in the institution in advance, and after some hesitation, the applicant had agreed to be transferred there. they maintained that the placement had been necessary because he had been spending most of his money on alcohol, he had spent most of his time sitting on a bench in front of his house verbally harassing passers-by, he had been unable to dress appropriately and sometimes he had been too drunk to receive his lunch, which had been brought to his door every day. he had also been sending confusing allegations to various institutions, such as courts, ministries and animal rights organisations. on 25 july 2011 the lawyer sent a request for the applicant’s immediate release to the director of the social care home and to the public guardian. from 2 to 16 august 2011 the applicant was hospitalised at the mulačova hospital in plzeň for planned orthopedic surgery. he is therefore sending me a letter informing me that [the applicant] is unhappy and that they want to discharge him. on 23 august 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a request with the municipal court through the prague 4 district court arguing that the guardianship court, namely the prague 4 district court, had been inactive in the matter of his client’s detention and had not initiated guardianship proceedings (opatrovnické řízení) seeking to solve the conflict of interests between the applicant and his public guardian. on 27 september 2011 the public guardian terminated the agreement with the social care home. the applicant was not informed about this in advance. for this reason the applicant did not refuse the medication. according to the institution’s psychiatrist, the applicant never asked to leave the premises as he had problems with his knee. it also provided educational, training and stimulation activities, mediation of contact with the social environment, social and therapeutic activities and other services. regarding the latter, it held that the alleged shortcomings in the proceedings did not constitute irregular official conduct for which the state could be held responsible because the conduct had resulted in a decision. the former situation did not arise in the present case either, as there had been no final decision that was later quashed as illegal. it considered that his own behaviour had been at the origin of the facts, because of his excessive drinking. on 28 september 2012, following the rejection of his claim for damages by the ministry of justice, the applicant brought an action against the czech republic seeking damages for the incorrect procedure followed by the courts.
the applicant was born in 1975 and prior to her arrest had a permanent address in artsyz in odessa region. in september 2012 she was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing. on 17 october 2014 a cytology test revealed indications of cervical cancer. in addition to stage iv hiv, she was diagnosed with cervical cancer. it was recommended that the applicant be transferred to the hospital at daryivska correctional colony no. on 3 march 2015 the applicant was admitted to the hiv treatment facility. upon conclusion of a course of art, on 11 march 2015 the hiv treatment facility issued a certificate stating that the applicant had been receiving art without interruption since december 2012. it was recommended in particular that the applicant continue art and take hepatoprotectors. the applicant was referred to the oncology facility. on 16 april 2015 the applicant left the colony under guard and on 22 april 2015 arrived at the kyiv pre-trial detention centre (“the kyiv sizo”) in order to be able to attend the appeal hearings in her case. in an undated letter submitted to the shevchenkivsky court on 8 june 2015 the kyiv sizo governor and the head of its medical unit informed the court that the applicant was receiving art at the sizo but her cancer could only be treated with radiation therapy, which could not be provided at the sizo. on 25 june 2015 the shevchenkivsky court rejected the applicant’s request for release. on 1 july 2015 the acting president of the section decided, upon the applicant’s request under rule 39 of the rules of court, to indicate to the government that they should present the applicant urgently for medical examination by a specialist doctor; secure immediately, by appropriate means, treatment of the applicant appropriate to her conditions, and inform the court by 1 august 2015 about the applicant’s state of health and the measures undertaken. on 13 july 2015 the applicant was examined by a gynaecological oncologist from the kyiv oncology centre. her diagnoses were confirmed and she was prescribed radiation therapy. on 25 october 2015 the government informed the court of the applicant’s first radiation therapy course. more than 90% of rail cars used are older than their planned useful life (twenty-eight years). they lack ventilation creating intolerable conditions in the summer. compartments are overcrowded meaning that a car with a seventy-person capacity may carry 100 or more people. access to potable water is erratic and no hot food is provided.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is currently serving a life sentence in ladyzhynska prison no. some items belonging to the victims were found in his luggage. subsequently they undressed him, stuffed his mouth with earth and grass, and raped him with a wooden stick. according to the case-file materials, on 18 august 2005, at 6.20 p.m., the applicant’s arrest was reported and his rights of a criminal suspect were explained to him. had been his acquaintance, he had met her by chance near a forest, they had had a conflict and he had killed her with a knife that had fallen out of her picnic bag. furthermore, according to the applicant’s account submitted in his application form, his questioning had started before and continued during his medical examination, in the presence of many police officers including those who had ill-treated him. in his reply to the government’s observations on the admissibility and merits of the application, the applicant submitted a different version of the events: that his first questioning had actually taken place on 19 august 2005 and that its report had wrongly been dated 18 august 2005. ’s murder and the theft of her belongings. he submitted that he had in fact used his own butterfly-type knife, which he had bought at a market in july that year. the investigator promised him to take measures to protect him. the applicant indicated those persons’ first names and physical description. on 21 march 2006 the above decision was sent to the applicant with a note that he could challenge it before a court within seven days of the date of its receipt. according to him, he intended to raise the complaint of his ill-treatment during his trial as his lawyer had advised him. furthermore, certain items belonging to the victims had been discovered on him or sold by him to other persons, which he did not contest. furthermore, he had stated in writing that he had no complaints against the police. on 31 january 2007 the registry of the court acknowledged receipt of the completed application form from the applicant. on 31 may 2007 the applicant informed the court that he had not challenged the decision in question. on 6 july 2007 the registry wrote to the applicant that his case was ready for examination by the court and that he would be informed about the subsequent procedures in due time. the applicant submitted numerous supplements to his application. subsequently the court declared those complaints inadmissible (see paragraph 4 above).
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s husband owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia. on 14 june 1985, by decision of the sofia mayor, the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a school. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a four-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality intended to construct. by a supplementary decision of 12 september 1986, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat to be provided in compensation. no mention was made however of the garage. even though, after judicial review initiated by the applicant’s husband, in a final judgment of 18 march 1987 the sofia city court ordered the mayor to supplement the decision and specify the exact garage to be provided to the applicant’s husband, this was not done. in 2004 the municipal authorities transferred to the applicant’s husband property to a flat different from the one described in the decision of 12 september 1986, which however he did not contest. the applicant’s husband passed away in 2005. by virtue of his will, all his property was left to the applicant. in a letter signed by the chief architect of sofia and dated 8 july 2009 the applicant was informed that the decision of 12 september 1986 had not yet been supplemented to specify the garage to be provided to her because no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose were being built. in august 2009 the applicant challenged before the courts the mayor’s failure to issue a decision specifying the garage to be provided to her. in a final judgment of 23 june 2010 the supreme administrative court dismissed her claim, noting that the case at hand did not concern what was defined by statute as “unlawful failure to act”, but instead the enforcement of the judgment of 18 march 1987 (see paragraph 7 above), which had to be pursued under a different procedure. in parallel proceedings brought on an unspecified date in 2009, the applicant sought damages from the sofia municipality for wrongful failure to provide her with a garage. in a final decision of 23 september 2010 the supreme administrative court declared the claim inadmissible, on the ground that the courts had already established in the judgment of 23 june 2010 that there had not been any unlawful failure to act on the part of the administrative authorities.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in donetsk. subsequently the applicant learned that on 18 december 2001 y. had signed a notarised gift deed in which he transferred his title to half of the flat (which was not as divided into allocated parts of the whole) to v.s. 9. according to the applicant, on numerous occasions they broke the locks, insulted and harassed her and caused damage to her property. as a gift, whose value amounted to 5,602 ukrainian hryvnias (uah) according to the gift certificates. and v.s. broke the locks on the entrance door when the applicant was away, entered the flat and, upon the applicant’s arrival, reiterated their demands that she sell her share. v.s. and several strangers broke into the applicant’s flat again. a conflict emerged, in the course of which v.s. hit the applicant on the head and stomach, inflicting concussion and blunt trauma of the abdominal wall. these tenants, mostly young males, behaved in a discourteous way. the defendants lodged a counterclaim, alleging, in particular, that the applicant had been interfering with their personal life and belongings, provoking conflicts, harassing them and creating intolerable living conditions, which made it impossible for them to fulfil their desire to settle in the flat. she further alleged that, having no other residence and being a victim of constant harassment, she had abandoned the flat and had been requesting refuge from various acquaintances. on 2 december 2005 the district prosecutor also lodged a cassation appeal on the applicant’s behalf, in which he corroborated her submissions that the defendants had been harassing her, had been using the flat in bad faith and had forced the applicant, a senior lady, to leave the dwelling she had occupied for many years. in any event, during these conflicts the applicant had sustained no serious damage to her health and had not presented any evidence that her belongings had in fact been taken or damaged by the accused individuals. on several occasions the police had issued official warnings to them, advising them of the impermissibility of antisocial behaviour. they further assured the applicant that her address had been placed on the police register for frequent visits. she submitted that the same individuals had engaged in similar conduct vis‑à-vis a number of other co-owners of properties in the city. she found that the injured parties had failed to comply with the rules on territorial jurisdiction and with other unspecified procedural requirements. who had allegedly been forced to abandon her flat on account of the intolerable living conditions created by the co-owners of her flat. on 27 february 2012 the regional court quashed this verdict on appeal by the prosecution and the injured parties and remitted the case for retrial. on 17 april 2012 the defendants were rearrested and placed in custody. on 6 march 2013, following an appeal by the defendants, the regional court upheld this verdict on appeal concerning all points, except one episode unrelated to the applicant’s case.
the applicants were born in 1952 and 1955 respectively and live in sofia. the first applicant’s parents owned part of a house in sofia. in 1986 the house was expropriated with a view to constructing a street and a residential building. the expropriation decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided in particular that in compensation the applicants were to receive a three-room flat. by another decision of 28 may 1993, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor indicated the exact future flat to be provided as compensation to the applicants. it measured 87 square metres and was situated in a building to be constructed by the sofia municipality. its value was set at 21,185 old bulgarian levs (bgl), later amended to bgl 21,231. the applicants paid to the municipality the part of this amount which was not covered by the value of the expropriated property. in 1990 the applicants, their children and the first applicant’s parents were accommodated in a three‑room municipal flat. they remained in it until 2004, when they chose to move to another dwelling better adapted for the first applicant’s mother’s frail state of health. on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality, claiming pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage on account of its continued failure to build and provide them with a flat. the action was dismissed on 21 february 2006 by the sofia district court, which found that the applicants had not proven that they had sustained damage, in particular because they had been accommodated in a municipally-owned dwelling, and that in any event domestic law provided for a special remedy for persons in the applicants’ situation, namely the possibility to request a new valuation of the expropriated property. following that judgment, the applicants made a request for a new valuation. in a letter by the municipality dated 2 june 2006 and signed by a deputy mayor, they were informed that they were not entitled to seek such a valuation since they had not been the owners of the expropriated property. in the meantime the flat due to the applicants was built and they took possession of it on 19 june 2006. in the tort proceedings, in judgments of 14 december 2006 and 8 july 2008 the sofia city court and the supreme court of cassation upheld the sofia district court’s judgment of 21 february 2006, reiterating its findings. in these proceedings the applicants were ordered to pay 1,200 new bulgarian levs (bgn, the equivalent to 612 euros – eur) in court fees.
on 25 october 2011 two persons wearing black masks entered the applicants’ house with an intention to rob them. after the incident, the first applicant was admitted to hospital where she remained in the intensive care unit until 4 november 2011. seventeen-year old at the time) on account of aggravated robbery and remanded him in custody. on the same date, the trial court ordered f.t. ’s detention for fifteen days for the same reasons as before. his age, the fact that he is a regular student in third year of secondary school and a young man in development, [the court] considers that there are grounds for termination of the detention order ...” 8. on 13 january 2012 the public prosecutor lodged an indictment against f.t. they were indicted on charges of aggravated robbery with respect to the incident of 25 october 2011. on the basis of a prior agreement, arrived [at the applicants’ house] with an intention to steal movable objects. and [the first applicant] in order to achieve their aim ... wearing black masks, [s.g. on the head and hands with the metal hammer. ’s screaming, she arrived in the kitchen in order to see what was going on, but when she arrived in the living room, she was assaulted by the minor f.t. were taken by ambulance to skopje hospital. her mother was so much beaten that she could not see; her eyes were closed and her face was so much coloured (модро) that she could not recognise her.” was required to report to ohrid detention centre on 30 january 2013 in order to serve the sentence. requested that the sentence be postponed for family and health reasons. on 21 february 2013 the detention centre informed the enforcement judge that f.t. had not arrived at the facility on the specified date. after such a judge had been appointed, on 27 march 2014 another incarceration order had been issued in respect of f.t. would remain in custody until 27 june 2019.
at the time she submitted her complaint she lived in madona region, latvia. on 17 november 2006 the madona district court, acting as a first‑instance court, found the applicant guilty of a traffic offence which had caused moderate bodily injury to a victim. the court ordered the applicant to perform 100 hours of community service and suspended her driving licence for a year. in establishing the applicant’s guilt, the first-instance court relied on incriminating statements by the victim and two witnesses. it also relied on other evidence, including a medical expert opinion on the bodily injuries sustained by the victim. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the vidzeme regional court. she alleged, inter alia, that the first instance court had failed to order an inspection and a technical examination of her vehicle, and had also not carried out a confrontation of witnesses. on 13 february 2007 the vidzeme regional court upheld the judgment of the first-instance court but changed in part the punishment by revoking the suspension of the applicant’s driving licence. on 8 march 2007 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the senate of the supreme court. she alleged that the appellate court had failed to carry out and to order a number of investigating activities. specifically, according to the applicant, the appellate court has not carried out a confrontation between the witnesses and the victim. it has not ordered an investigative experiment, an inspection and a technical examination of her vehicle. the applicant maintained that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to establish her guilt, and thus the appeal court had acted contrary to numerous sections of the criminal procedure law. in a letter dated 11 april 2007 a judge of the senate of the supreme court informed the applicant that on 11 april 2007 her appeal on points of law was not admitted for examination in the cassation proceedings. it relied on section 573 of the criminal procedure law and stated that “[the appeal on points of law] was not substantiated by any fundamental infringement of the criminal law or the law on criminal procedure”. it was also stated that it was not within the competence of the cassation court to re-examine or obtain evidence, or to explain the factual circumstances of the case.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in athens. while studying in turkey (1994-1999) the applicant had become a pro-communist and pro‑kurdish political activist. in 1997 he opened a literary café, which was frequented by individuals favourable to such a political stance. the applicant was also held in the “white (isolation) cells” in kandra prison. he went on hunger strike for 171 days, causing him to develop wernicke-korsakoff syndrome, a pathology which can cause irreversible damage to health and prove fatal. in 2002 the applicant fled to greece, where he submitted an asylum application on 15 january 2002. on 21 march 2002 the applicant appealed to the ministry of public order against that decision. further to that favourable opinion, under article 3 § 5 of presidential decree no. 61/1999 (on the procedure for the examination of asylum applications), the minister for public order should have taken a decision within twenty-four hours on whether or not to grant the applicant international protection. however, by the date on which the application was referred to the court, the minister had not taken any decision and therefore had neither ratified nor rejected the board’s opinion. in 2003, while he was living in athens, the applicant was joined by his wife from turkey. however, her presence in greece only became lawful in 2008, when she obtained a short-term work permit. in 2011 the applicant’s wife returned to istanbul with the child owing to health problems. that request had been based on accusations similar to those used in 2000 which had been assessed by the greek authorities during the examination of his asylum application. on 12 march 2013 the applicant was arrested in patras. on 26 march 2013 the indictment division of patras court of appeal examined the extradition request and unanimously decided to reject it. the division based its decision on the risk run by the applicant of suffering ill-treatment on account of his political opinions, should he be extradited. on 27 march 2013 the public prosecutor appealed to the court of cassation against the decision of the indictment division of patras court of appeal. the applicant had meanwhile been actively seeking to secure a final decision. furthermore, it emerged from correspondence among a number of different authorities (between police authorities and between the police and other authorities) on 23 february 2007, 16 october 2012, 14 november 2012 and 28 january 2015, that the applicant’s asylum application was still pending before the minister for public order.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was working at the directorate of national palaces as a secretary. on an unspecified date in 2002, following ongoing conflict with a colleague and at the request of a certain professor, m.ü., from the same directorate, the applicant was demoted. when she complained about her demotion to her friend, m.g., who was a mutual acquaintance, and seek a reconciliation between the parties and thus her possible reinstatement. made a number of harassing phone calls to the professor with violent threats to hurt his son, accompanied by a ransom request. admitted to having threatened the professor, but claimed that he had had no intention of hurting anyone. on 27 october 2005 the istanbul assize court convicted m.g. as charged, but acquitted the applicant on the grounds of a lack of sufficient evidence to corroborate the allegations against her. that decision, which was not appealed against by the defendants, was finalised on 4 november 2005. in the meantime, on 31 december 2002, shortly after her indictment, the applicant had been dismissed from the position to which she had been demoted, without receiving payment in lieu of notice or severance pay. on 30 october 2003 the applicant brought an action against the directorate of national palaces before the bakırköy labour court, claiming severance pay and payment in lieu of notice on grounds of wrongful dismissal. to commit the offences of making threats and requesting a ransom, and had breached the relationship of trust with her employer. the relevant part of the judgment reads:“...in their observations, the respondent party submitted that the applicant had incited her friend to threaten and extort ransom from m.ü, and that she had confessed to the charges against her in her statement to the police...the court has requested the case file of the istanbul 6th criminal assize court and examined the entire criminal investigation file. based on its examination, it notes that the other accused m.g., the court has also given regard to the documents submitted by the plaintiff’s employer and finds it established that the plaintiff’s contract had been terminated on the basis of the fact that the plaintiff had incited m.g. to commit the crime of making threats and requesting a ransom. the applicant appealed against the decision of the bakırköy labour court.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in arzamas. in the early hours of 5 june 2005, at about 3 a.m., the police arrested the applicant. in the morning he was interviewed and later taken to the hospital because he broke the window and injured himself. at 6 p.m. the arrest record was drawn up; it gave 6 p.m. as the time of the applicant’s arrest. on 7 june 2005 the lukoyanovskiy district court in the nizhny novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody for an initial two‑month period. on 8 august 2005 the district court held a hearing to decide, among other matters, on an extension of the applicant’s detention. the applicant asked for release; counsel for the applicant pointed out that, since the authorised detention period had ended on 5 august 2005, his detention in the following three days had been unlawful. the district court extended the applicant’s detention, finding that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged”. in the statement of appeal against the district court’s extension order, the applicant complained that the custodial measure which had already expired could not “remain unchanged”. the appeal was forwarded to the regional court only on 8 september 2005. on 23 september 2005 the regional court rejected the appeal in a summary fashion, without addressing the applicant’s arguments. on 25 january 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 25 april 2006, without informing the applicant or his representative about the hearing or giving any reasons for its decision. the applicant filed an appeal on 30 january 2006 which was dismissed by the regional court on 31 may 2006. by judgment of 25 august 2006, as upheld on appeal on 17 october 2006, the applicant was found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in opfikon. on 2 october 1995 the applicant was examined by a rheumatologist who diagnosed her with a cervical trauma and possible cranial trauma. nevertheless, on 12 june 1996 another doctor in the same hospital declared the applicant totally incapable of work. in september 1997 the insurance company rejected the applicant’s complaint finding no causal link between the accident and her health problems. the applicant appealed to the social insurance court of the canton of zurich (sozialversicherungsgericht des kantons zürich). it overturned the insurance company’s decision and remitted the case for further clarifications. moreover, a doubt remained as to whether the applicant had suffered trauma to her neck and spine. the insurance company therefore ordered another medical report, which was delivered on 11 november 2002. the medical expert confirmed the existence of a causal link between the accident and the applicant’s health problems, and concluded that the applicant’s illness had led to a total incapacity for work. the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision. he also strongly criticised the approach and findings of other medical experts. on the basis of this report, on 22 september 2005 the insurance company dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds of lack of a causal link between the accident and her medical conditions. thereafter, the insurance company invited the applicant to undergo a medical evaluation of her functional abilities, which she refused. the undercover investigators followed the applicant over long distances. following the surveillance, a detailed monitoring record was prepared. on 14 december 2006 the insurance company sent the private investigators’ report to the applicant. she also asked for the surveillance case file to be destroyed. on 12 april 2007 another neurologist appointed by the insurance company, dr h., released an anonymous expert opinion based on evidence and drafted taking into account all the medical examinations and assessments carried out previously as well as the surveillance images. furthermore, he estimated the damage to the applicant’s physical integrity at between 5% and 10%. as a result, it denied any probative value of the expert opinion based on the evidence, which had taken into account the illegal surveillance.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in budapest. on 9 march 2006 the applicant submitted a request for an increase of her disability pension before the budapest governmental authority (directorate of pension insurance), which dismissed her claim on 21 august 2006. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision on 10 october 2006. the central-hungarian regional insurance directorate acting as a second-instance authority upheld the first-instance decision on 4 january 2007. the applicant sought the judicial review of the second-instance decision within the statutory time-limit. she submitted her statement of claim on 9 february 2007 to the first-instance administrative authority, in line with the applicable procedural laws. in the absence of any developments in the case, the applicant notified the first-instance administrative authority about upholding her claim on 18 march 2010. the first-instance administrative authority subsequently forwarded the applicant’s statement of claim to the budapest labour court on 20 july 2010. the budapest labour court dismissed the applicant’s claim on 14 june 2011.
the case originated in an application (no. 52257/11) against hungary lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by eleven hungarian nationals, mr tibor bak, mrs lászlóné csatári, mr istván csillag, mr andrás halász, ms boglárka lászló, mr zoltán lex, mr márk marsi, mr sándor orosz, mrs klára pápainé armuth, mr györgy  rosta and mr attila széles (“the applicants”), on 8 august 2011. a list of applicants is annexed to the present judgment. the applicants were represented by mr cs. on 31 august 2015 the applicants’ complaint under article 1 of protocol no. they will be payable within three months from the date of notification of the strike-out decision taken by the court. in the event of failure to pay these sums within the said three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the payment will constitute the final resolution of the case in respect of these seven applicants. the upper bracket of his severance payment was taxed at 98% rate. the government did not contest the levy of the special tax on his severance payment; but in their observations they rectified the tax amount. the first applicant did not contest this. from october 2002 he was employed at the state-owned national export-import bank ltd. his employment was terminated on 29 october 2010. the fourth applicant did not contest this. the fifth applicant, ms boglárka lászló was born in 1967 and lives in budapest. from april 2007 she was employed at the state-owned mfb investment ltd. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement on 29 october 2010. accordingly, special tax was levied on her severance payment in the amount of huf 6,508,053 (approximately eur 21,700). the ninth applicant, mrs klára pápainé armuth was born in 1957 and lives in budapest. her employment was terminated by mutual agreement in 2010.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. the applicant and two minors (z. and s.) were suspected to be implicated in several car thefts. on 23 august 2007 the leninskiy district court of nizhniy novgorod (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s detention on remand in connection with the car thefts, referring to the gravity of the charges and an unspecified risk that she would put pressure on minors s. and z. the judge concluded that the applicant could obstruct the proceedings. on 5 september 2007 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 13 september 2007 the investigator ordered a psychiatric examination of the applicant to verify whether she was fit to stand trial. the experts concluded that her mental conditions did not exclude a criminal liability and that she did not require any compulsory psychiatric treatment. in february 2008 the criminal case against the applicant and her co‑defendants was submitted for trial before the district court. on 18 february 2008 the district court, noting that the applicant had been charged with a serious crime and could exercise pressure on the minor co-defendants if at liberty, decided to maintain her in custody until 1 august 2008. by judgment of 1 september 2008, the applicant was convicted on several charges and acquitted of the remainder, in particular, of the charges pertaining to involvement of minors in criminal activities. she was sentenced to a suspended prison term. on 23 august 2007 the applicant was placed in remand prison iz‑52/1 in nizhniy novgorod. according to the applicant, the cell accommodated up to forty persons. in the government’s submission, twenty-seven to thirty-five inmates shared the cell during that period. on 20 december 2007 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 30/349 measuring 12.14 square metres, which she shared with another detainee. in december 2007 the committee against torture retained ms p., an advocate, who visited the applicant in the remand centre on 27 december 2007 and 21 february 2008. the applicant’s representative showed a simple authority form signed by the applicant and authorising him to represent her before the court. on 28 february 2008 the administration of the remand centre informed the representative that such permission could be granted by the district court dealing the criminal case against the applicant. instead of applying for a court order, the applicant’s representative sought judicial review of the above refusal. on 6 may 2008 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the sovetskiy district court’s decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in vanadzor. with a knife after the latter threatened him with a gun. the applicant also surrendered his knife and y.p. ’s health, and to apply a written undertaking not to leave his place of residence as a preventive measure in respect of the applicant. the applicant requested that the written undertaking not to leave his place of residence be maintained. on 10 august 2010 the lori regional court, having heard the applicant, found the investigator’s motion to be well-founded and decided to grant it by ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months:“... taking into account the nature and dangerousness of the act committed by [the accused], and the fact that, if at large, he may abscond from the authority dealing with the case or obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings, as well as avoid liability and sentence.” on 12 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that his detention on conditions provided by article 135 of the ccp was incompatible with the guarantees of article 5 of the convention. the investigator had not produced any evidence that he had ever tried to abscond or obstruct the investigation or that he would abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit a criminal offence or avoid criminal liability or serving the imposed sentence. on 24 september 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which was declared inadmissible for lack of merit by the court of cassation’s decision of 29 october 2010. the applicant objected to this motion and requested that the regional court release him on bail. it further decided to dismiss the applicant’s motion for release on bail on the same grounds. in particular, his identity was known, he had a permanent place of residence and had never tried to abscond. on 20 october 2010 the criminal court of appeal upheld the decision to extend the applicant’s detention and to refuse his release on bail, finding it to be lawful and well-founded. on 8 november 2010 the applicant filed a motion with the lori regional court seeking to be released on bail. this decision was subject to appeal before the criminal court of appeal within ten days. on 3 december 2010 the regional court decided to grant partially the investigator’s motion, finding that the grounds for the applicant’s detention still persisted and extending his detention by fifteen days. on 10 december 2010 the investigator filed a motion seeking to have the applicant’s detention, which was to expire on 24 december 2010, extended by another month. this motion stated, inter alia, that the bill of indictment was not ready yet and the grounds for the applicant’s detention still persisted. on 16 december 2010 the applicant was released upon the payment of the amount of bail fixed by the regional court. on 25 january 2011 the investigator decided to drop the charges against the applicant, cancel the bail and terminate the criminal proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1982 and resides in vinnytsia. several forensic psychiatric examinations found him to have sufficient mental capacity to be held criminally liable. on 17 july 2007 ms o., a tobacco kiosk seller, was stabbed to death at her working place. according to the police reports, that measure was undertaken on at least two different occasions, each time in respect of an administrative (minor) offence formally unrelated to the murder. it is not known what exactly happened next. as noted in the other report, at 10.10 p.m. on that day the applicant was apprehended again in respect of an administrative offence. he submitted that he had bought cigarettes at her kiosk on 17 july 2007, without anything unusual having happened. the case file does not contain any further information regarding that questioning. who convinced him to confess to the murder. he also promised the applicant money in exchange for the information as to where the applicant had thrown the knife. subsequently the police found the knife at the indicated place. ’s statements and the related material evidence were eventually relied on by the trial court in the criminal proceedings against the applicant. still on 19 july 2007, from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m., the police carried out a search in the applicant’s flat in the context of the investigation of the murder of ms o. it appears that they seized his shirt. on the same day the applicant was questioned as a witness in the murder case. later on 21 july 2007 the applicant was questioned as a criminal suspect. he explained that he had invented his confession being scared that otherwise he would not be released. during his questioning on that and the following day the applicant confessed to that crime. the trial court remitted the case for additional investigation many times. according to the case-file materials, the most recent such remittal took place on 31 october 2013. there is no information about any subsequent developments.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in lviv. on 29 january 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 1 february 2007 the lviv shevchenkivskyy district court (the shevchenkivskyy court) ordered his detention as a preventive measure pending trial, for an initial period of two months. on 28 march 2007 the same court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention for two more months on the ground that there was a considerable volume of investigative measures to be carried out and there were no reasons for changing the preventive measure. on 29 may 2007 the investigation was completed and the applicant and his lawyer received access to the case file. on 6 july 2007 another set of criminal proceedings was instituted against the applicant, for infliction of grievous bodily harm. on 10 july 2007 the two criminal cases were joined. on the same day the lviv regional court of appeal (the court of appeal) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to six months. on 27 july 2007 the case was referred to the shevchenkivskyy court, which held a preliminary hearing on 31 august 2007. it ordered the applicant’s further detention without fixing any time-limits. the shevchenkivskyy court remitted the case for further investigation three times (on 8 october 2007, as well as on 19 may and 18 november 2008). the appellate court quashed the first two decisions (on 18 december 2007 and 26 august 2008), but upheld the last one (on 27 march 2009). all the judicial rulings in question maintained the applicant’s continued detention without further reasoning. on 14 may 2009 the investigation was completed and the case was referred for trial, this time to the court of appeal as a first-instance court. on 27 may 2009 the court of appeal held a preliminary hearing, at which it decided, among other things, to remit the case for further investigation once again and to maintain the applicant’s detention. on 4 august 2009 the supreme court quashed the above decision in so far as it concerned the remittal issue and rejected the applicant’s request for release on the ground that he was accused of serious crimes. on 15 june 2010 the court of appeal found the applicant guilty of murder and attempted murder and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. on 22 february 2011 the supreme court upheld that judgment. on 29 january 2016 the applicant was released following the legislative amendments pertaining to the enforcement of sentences.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in stryy. on 25 december 1997 the stryy prosecutor lodged civil proceedings on behalf of the stryy city council seeking to have declared that the applicant had lost her right to occupy a flat provided to her under the protected social tenancy scheme, as she had abandoned it. on 2 february 1998 the stryy court allowed this claim. she argued, in particular, that she had not abandoned the flat. she had been absent from stryy because she had been serving a prison sentence. she also noted that she had two dependent children and no other residence. on the same date the court also addressed the city council in a separate ruling (окрема ухвала) inviting it to consider the applicant’s personal situation and the need for her reintegration into society in deciding on how to use the flat formerly occupied by her. it noted, in particular, that the applicant had no other housing, was unemployed and had two children. he also assured the court that the city council would take no action to have the applicant evicted. on 18 june 1998 the stryy court ordered the applicant’s eviction referring to article 109 of the housing code and the fact that she had lost occupancy right in respect of the disputed flat. this judgment became final and was enforced on 13 october 1998. on 27 may 2003 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the above judgment and it became final. at the same time, regard being had to the decision restoring the applicant’s right to occupy the same flat, it obliged the city council to provide the applicant with replacement housing unit equivalent to the flat at issue. this judgment became final and in october 2005 the bailiffs instituted enforcement proceedings. on 20 october 2005 the city council informed the applicant that it was unable to execute the judgment at the material time, since it had no available housing and no funds to build new units. according to the applicant, she was never offered any flats by the city council. it is not clear whether the applicant was in receipt of the above writ. on various occasions the applicant unsuccessfully complained about the non-enforcement of the judgment of 6 july 2005 to various authorities. in august 2008 the applicant identified a flat located in sh. street, which was vacant following the death of its former owner in january 2008, and moved into it.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in lviv. a paramedic working at the centre, concluded, after merely examining the applicant’s appearance and without administering any laboratory tests, that he was suffering “from alcohol intoxication of an intermediate degree.” before being discharged, the applicant signed a report on his confinement (“the confinement report”), which stated that he had been placed in the sobering-up centre at 10.20 p.m. on 20 february 2002 after having consumed 250 millilitres of vodka and that he had no complaints in respect of the sobering-up centre’s staff. this report also contained illegible handwritten observations of the centre’s paramedic concerning the applicant’s pulse and other health-related indicators taken upon his placement in the centre. on the same date the applicant was certified as having no alcohol in his urine. he was also found to be suffering from contusions on one of his elbows and in the eyebrow area. also on the same date, the police were notified by the medical staff that the applicant had complained about having been beaten. it further noted that k., a police officer, had been assigned to conduct an inquiry into that complaint. he had been found liable to be disciplined for inaction on his part, notably for not having questioned the parties concerned. on 3 july 2002 the applicant received a letter from the lviv prosecutor’s office stating that an inquiry into his complaints concerning the actions of the municipal guard officers and the sobering-up centre paramedic had concluded that those complaints were ill-founded. at trial, the applicant submitted, inter alia, that he could not describe in detail when and how the injuries had been inflicted on him. he also maintained that on 21 february 2002, following his discharge from the sobering-up centre, he had had to attend a court hearing in an unrelated case. such a conclusion was to be made by making a visual examination and by measuring such vital indicators as pulse rate and blood pressure. it referred, in particular, to the applicant’s own acknowledgment in the confinement report that he had drunk 250 milliliters of vodka and had no complaints against the staff of the sobering-up centre. in these circumstances, the court found that the applicant had most likely sustained his injuries after his release. however, the applicant had agreed to sign it because he had been afraid that otherwise he might not be discharged. the applicant also complained that the first-instance court had unreasonably refused his request for the prosecutor’s office to be obliged to produce the results of its inquiry concerning the applicant’s complaints. on 13 october 2003 the lviv regional court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal, having found that he had failed to substantiate his allegations. this method was arbitrary and neither the defendant authority nor the courts had referred to any specific legal provision governing such a practice. he further complained that neither the prosecutor’s office nor the civil courts had made any effort in good faith to establish the circumstances in which he had sustained his injuries; thus, his version of events remained credible and unrebutted.
the applicant was born in 1927 and lives in rīga. on 10 august 1998 the office of the prosecutor general separated materials of the criminal case no. 81204496 and initiated new criminal proceedings in respect of the applicant’s activities during the period from 1948 to 1953, when he was an investigator at the ministry of state security of the soviet socialist republic of latvia. on 23 october 1999 the prosecutor informed the applicant that he was suspected of having committed genocide. on the same date the prosecutor for the first time questioned the applicant as a suspect. from 29 october 1999 to 28 december 1999 the applicant was detained on remand. the indictment concerned seven different episodes involving thirteen alleged victims. on 23 october 2002 the applicant’s new defence counsel requested the riga regional court to postpone at least for three weeks the hearing, which was scheduled for 24 october 2002, so that he would have enough time to acquaint himself with the applicant’s criminal case file. on 14 september 2004 the judge informed the applicant’s defence counsel that the hearing was scheduled for 11 october 2004. the riga regional court held hearings on 11, 12 and 18 october 2004. the next hearing was scheduled for 13 december 2004. the prosecutor appealed against the judgement. this decision was finalised on 16 march 2006. with a decision of 28 april 2006 the senate of the supreme court quashed this decision and remitted the case to the appellate court. on 2 may 2006 the judge of the criminal cases chamber of the supreme court scheduled the appeal hearing for 7, 8 and 9 february 2007. upon the prosecutor’s request, on 7 february 2007 the appellate court suspended the case pending an expert medical report on the applicant’s capacity to participate in the hearing and to serve a prison sentence. on 17 april 2007 the court’s decision ordering the forensic examination was forwarded to the state centre for forensic medical examination. on 24 april 2007 also the applicant’s criminal case file was sent to this institution. on 28 august 2007 the state centre for forensic medical examination delivered the results of the forensic examination. following the applicant’s forensic expertise, the examination of the applicant’s criminal case before the appellate court was continued on 27 and 28 february 2008.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in kuršanec. the prisoners were allowed to move freely outside the locked part of the prison between 4 and 7 p.m., and the out-of-cell facilities were inadequate and insufficient, particularly given that there was only an open recreation yard. period ofdetentiontotal number of inmates overall surface area insq. m surfaceminussanitaryfacilityin sq. the government further explained that each cell in which the applicant had been accommodated had had windows allowing in natural light and fresh air. all cells had direct access to drinking water. furthermore, the inmates were provided with all necessary hygiene and sanitary facilities. in addition, the inmates were provided with the necessary clothing although they were allowed to use their own clothes. m. there was also direct access to drinking water and artificial light as well as protection from inclement weather available in the recreation area. the prison administration also organised religious ceremonies and contacts with cultural and religious associations. it pointed out that he had been given sufficient opportunity to have contact with his family by telephone and while attending the court hearings in march, april and july 2010 in the criminal proceedings against him, that he had not been engaged in any work because there had been an insufficient number of work posts in bjelovar prison, that he had had seven meetings with the prison governor and twenty-five meetings with various other bjelovar prison officials, and that food had been prepared in consultation with experts, the prison diet having been continuously supervised by the prison doctor. he pointed out that central to his complaints was his wish to be transferred to another prison closer to his family. m in total and was inadequately equipped and maintained. after obtaining the relevant report and hearing the applicant in person, on 7 october 2010 the sentence-execution judge dismissed his complaints as ill-founded. on 15 october 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the sentence-execution judge’s decision with a three-judge panel of the bjelovar county court, alleging that she had erred in her factual findings, as cell no. m, where six inmates in total had been detained. m, where he had spent six months with eight inmates. on 26 november 2010 the applicant complained to the ombudsperson (pučki pravobranitelj) that he had not been granted a transfer to a prison closer to his family, and alleged in general terms that the conditions of his detention had been inadequate. the applicant replied to that request on 21 december 2010, indicating that the sentence-execution judge and the three-judge panel of the bjelovar county court had never examined his complaints properly, and that he had not been granted 4 sq. the ombudsperson also pointed out that the cell where the applicant was being detained had been renovated in 2010, and complied with all hygiene and health standards.
the applicant company is a limited liability company based in vienna. it is the owner and publisher of the weekly news magazine profil. between 1 and 6 april 2006 a number of daily newspapers published reports on the investigation and mentioned mr rauscher by name as responsible for the speculative transactions in question. carinthian hypo affair - how much did haider know?”). the article, headlined “schwere hypothek” (“heavy mortgage”), ran to nine pages. this son of the former spö regional finance chief max rauscher was not available for comment). ...the transactions in question were all performed between 20 september and 5 october 2004. a few weeks later, on 17 november 2004, the perfect storm hit. according to inside sources, rauscher may have set the stakes so high precisely because he wanted to make his mark as a candidate for the vacant post of department manager. after all, high stakes mean correspondingly high profits if all goes according to plan. at the time the article had been published, the land of carinthia had owned 49.4% of the bank. he had not been active in politics nor had he been in the public eye in connection with his professional activity. the transactions which had subsequently led to such enormous losses had been carried out between the end of september and the beginning of october 2004 and the claimant had been the main person in charge. on 5 april 2006 the fma had sent information to the klagenfurt public prosecutor’s office on three members of the executive board, who were suspected of manipulating the bank’s balance sheets, and on the claimant who was suspected of embezzlement for carrying out unauthorised foreign currency transactions. criminal proceedings against the claimant had been discontinued in 2008. after accusations against the claimant had been published in various media, his employment contract had been terminated. as a rule, adults who were suspected of having committed a crime were only protected against the disclosure of their identity if such disclosure disproportionately affected their professional advancement. moreover, the chief executive of the bank, mr kulterer, had levelled similar accusations against him. having regard to the function of the press as a “public watchdog” and the circumstances of the case, the regional court found that the public interest of obtaining information outweighed the claimant’s interest in not having his name disclosed. however, the article should have confined itself to mentioning the head of the bank’s treasury department without disclosing his name.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in călărași. on 26 october 2005 the applicant and her daughter drank water from taps in their apartment and shortly thereafter they felt unwell. on 29 october 2005 the applicant’s daughter, who was twelve at the time, was admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of “serious acute dysentery”. the applicant was admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis on 31 october 2005. she was released from hospital on 13 november 2005, a day later than her daughter. the applicant lodged a court action against the local utilities provider (“the provider”), a state-owned company, claiming 100,000 moldovan lei (“mdl”, approximately 6,700 euros (eur) at the time) in compensation for the harm caused to her health and for the related inconveniences, including subsequent investigations and disinfection. on 1 march 2006 the călăraşi district court found in her favour. it found that various sanitary, medical and technical reports had established that in the vicinity of the applicant’s apartment block the sewage pipe was situated above the drinking water pipe and was leaking. the water pipe had cracked on 26 october 2005 and sewage water had infiltrated the drinking water pipe. the court also established that the pipes had been used since 1977 and that their expected lifespan was fifteen years. a total of five people, all of whom had drunk water from taps connected to the same water pipe, had been admitted to hospital with the same diagnosis at approximately the same time as the applicant. taking into consideration such elements as the amount of physical and mental suffering caused to the applicant and her daughter, the court awarded her mdl 10,000 (approximately eur 648 at the time). on 26 april 2006 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and partly accepted the provider’s appeal. it reduced the award to mdl 5,000 (eur 310) because it found exaggerated “both the sum claimed by [the applicant] and that awarded to [her]”. on 25 october 2006 the supreme court of justice upheld the judgment of 26 april 2006. it found that the lower court had taken into consideration the nature and seriousness of the mental suffering caused to the applicant, as well as the degree of guilt of the defendant.
the applicant was born in 1960 in the georgian ssr of the ussr. on 23 november 2007 his georgian nationality was revoked by a decree of the president of georgia. in 1998, 2007 and 2009 the applicant was convicted of drug-related offences in russia and given a custodial sentence. the most recent sentence was set to expire on 11 october 2012. on 1 november 2012 the abakan town court, and on 16 january 2013 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic, confirmed the validity of the exclusion and deportation orders. on 8 april 2013 the applicant’s request for leave to appeal was rejected. the supreme court upheld the detention order but limited it in time until 31 december 2012. on 14 december 2012 the abakan town court examined an application for an extension of the time-limit. noting that the fms had not yet received a response from the georgian interests section as to the applicant’s nationality, it extended the time-limit until 1 july 2013. on 24 january 2013 the supreme court of the khakassiya republic rejected the appeal. it further held that the town court had erred in fixing a specific time-limit for the applicant’s detention and that the applicant should remain in detention “until his deportation”. on 5 february 2013 the georgian interests section replied that the applicant’s georgian nationality had been revoked by the president’s decree on 23 november 2007. on 30 january and 19 february 2013 the applicant asked the fms to consider his deportation to turkey where he owned real estate and where he had lived between 2001 and 2005. on 27 february 2013 the fms applied for assistance to the consular department of the ministry of foreign affairs (mfa). in june 2013 the fms established a working group on the applicant’s deportation. the applicant complained to a court about an excessive length of his detention. hearings were held on 26 september and 11 and 22 october 2013. that decision was upheld on appeal on 10 january 2014. on 24 february 2014 the applicant obtained georgian passport. on 3 march 2014 he was deported from russia.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in hamburg. on 26 august 2004 the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu; hereinafter: the “state attorney’s office”) indicted the applicant and another person in the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of aggravated fraud under article 224 §§ 1 and 4 of the criminal code (see paragraph 14 below). the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). on 11 february 2009 the zagreb municipal criminal court found the applicant and the other accused guilty as charged and sentenced the applicant to one year’s imprisonment, suspended for four years. she was also ordered, jointly with the other accused, to pay damages to the victims in the total amount of 230,335.22 croatian kunas (hrk; approximately 31,100 euros (eur)). the applicant appealed against her conviction and sentence, challenging all legal and factual aspects of the case and asking that her conviction be quashed and a retrial ordered. she submitted, in particular, that she had not had fraudulent intentions, but had merely acted as an intermediary between the loan provider and the borrowers in order to earn commission for herself. moreover, she stressed that the trial judge had erred in the factual findings and had failed to obtain certain evidence requested by her, which meant that some crucial facts had been left undetermined. she also asked that she and her defence lawyer be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 20 january 2011 the bjelovar county court (županijski sud u bjelovaru), without informing the applicant or her lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing. after examining all of the factual and legal issues of the case it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. on 5 april 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining of a lack of fairness of the criminal proceedings against her. she contended in particular that she had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 29 september 2011 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1985 respectively. in 1995 the first applicant moved to russia from tajikistan. in 1998 he was sentenced by the dzerzhinsky district court in perm to eight years of imprisonment for drug trafficking. at some point after his arrival in russia, the first applicant entered into a relationship with the second applicant. in 2006 the couple had a son and in 2009 they officially registered their marriage. the documents submitted indicate that the first applicant lived in russia on regularly extended temporary residence permits and was allowed to work. at the end of february 2014 the applicants lodged a complaint against the regional fss with the dzerzhinsky district court of perm and requested that the exclusion order be quashed and the re-entry ban lifted. on 16 may 2014 the regional court examined the complaint in camera. prior to that examination the second applicant and the applicants’ counsel gave undertakings of confidentiality concerning the information examined in camera hearing. the regional fss provided the court with the case file concerning the first applicant. the file, which seemed to comprise about two hundred and forty pages, was reviewed by the judge within the space of a few minutes. another fss officer, an operational search officer who had participated in operational measures against the first applicant, was called as a witness. the regional fss refused to specify which actions of the first applicant had served as the basis for the ban. on 16 may 2014 the regional court upheld the first applicant’s exclusion and the re-entry ban, stating, inter alia, that according to the witness statement of the fss operational search officer “the [first] applicant had been involved in activities threatening state security. the court further stated that the decision to exclude the first applicant had been issued in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law and its reasoning had referred to the information submitted by the regional fss; therefore, it had been lawful. according to the government, on 10 january 2015 the first applicant re-entered russia. on 20 march 2015 the perm region fms granted him a temporary residence permit, valid until 20 march 2018. the first applicant currently resides in russia. on 4 april 2015 the applicants paid the above amount. as regards the court’s request in respect of the information and documents that had served as the basis for the first applicant’s exclusion, the government did not furnish any documents.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in slavonski brod. in response to a request from the police, on 26 november 2007 the state attorney’s office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime (ured za suzbijanje korupcije i organiziranog kriminaliteta) asked an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) to authorise the use of special investigative measures, namely tapping the telephone conversations of the applicant and several other individuals on the grounds of their suspected participation in organised drug trafficking, customs evasion, and the abuse of power and authority. on 27 november 2007 the investigating judge granted the request and issued an order for the use of secret surveillance measures. having assessed the [state attorney’s] request, and in view of [the request from the police], it is established that there is probable cause for believing that the criminal offences have been committed and that the requisite investigation in the present case could not be carried out by any other means, or would be extremely difficult. in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge issued several further secret surveillance orders to the same effect. in addition to the phone tapping, the investigating judge also authorised the covert monitoring of the suspects. the applicant decided to remain silent and not give any evidence. on 12 june 2009 the applicant asked the slavonski brod county court to exclude from the proceedings the evidence obtained by means of secret surveillance as being unlawfully obtained. at a hearing on 18 june 2009 the slavonski brod county court dismissed the applicant’s request as unfounded. at the same hearing the applicant pleaded not guilty to the charges held against him, whereas three other defendants pleaded guilty. the trial bench heard several witnesses and an expert witness and examined the reports in the case file. the applicant further contended that his exact location at the moment of the alleged commission of the offence at issue should be established by obtaining the location tracking data of the mobile phone which he had allegedly used. further hearings were held on 2 and 19 february 2010 at which the trial bench examined the secret surveillance recordings. in this connection the trial bench heard evidence from the police officer in charge of the operation, z.h., who explained the method of identifying the mobile phones used by the defendants. ’s questioning, the trial bench dismissed all further requests for the examination of evidence and adjourned the hearing for the preparation of the defendants’ closing statements. the slavonski brod county court further held that all doubts on the part of the defence as to the accuracy of the recordings had been clarified by questioning the police officers, who had explained the manner in which the recordings had been obtained and documented. he also complained about the use of the evidence thereby obtained in securing his conviction. on 21 september 2010 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 11 september 2012.
the applicants were born in 1982, 1967 and 1978 respectively and live in podgorica. the applicants were employees of the usa embassy (“the embassy”) in montenegro. the first applicant worked as a protocol specialist/translator, and the second and third applicants as security guards. the employment contract between the locally employed staff and the embassy provided, inter alia, as follows:“3. the employee agrees to perform all the duties set forth in the position description in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. the first applicant’s main duties and responsibilities were related to assisting in organising official receptions, lunches and dinners; questions relevant to protocol and local practices and customs; maintaining a contact database; drafting correspondence in english and montenegrin; interpreting and translating documents, articles and incoming correspondence; arranging official calls; ensuring press coverage of ceremonial events; organising official visits and serving as a contact person between the front desk and the host country officials. on 26 july 2010 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in podgorica, apparently upon the third applicant’s claim to that effect, quashed the decision on his dismissal and ordered his reinstatement. it would appear that on an unspecified date thereafter this decision became final. between 22 november 2010 and 26 july 2012 the applicants instituted separate civil proceedings against the embassy. all the applicants claimed compensation: the first applicant sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the wrongful dismissal, and the second and third applicants claimed compensation for loss of earnings. the first and second applicants, in addition, sought reinstatement. on 4 october 2011 the supreme court quashed these decisions. on various dates thereafter the applicants appealed. between 20 november 2011 and 6 december 2012 the high court upheld the first-instance decisions, in substance endorsing their reasoning. the high court further held, upon the first applicant’s appeal, that a violation of sections 367 (1) and 415 of the civil procedure code (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below) by the first-instance court did not render the first-instance decision unlawful, in particular as it was undisputed that the respondent party had its seat in another state and only a diplomatic representation in montenegro. in ruling upon the second applicant’s claim it held that the jurisdiction of the domestic courts was not explicitly provided for either by the law or an international agreement. between 10 january 2013 and 12 july 2013 the applicants lodged separate constitutional appeals. on 18 november 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the first and third applicants’ constitutional appeals, while the second applicant’s constitutional appeal would appear to be still pending. there was therefore no arbitrariness in the courts’ rulings. however, it did not go into any analysis about the third applicant’s right of access to court.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in the tula region. while making a round of the parking lot, discovered n. who was severely beaten up and was lying on the ground. on 2 november 2005 the prosecutor’s office opened an investigation into n.’s death. the applicant’s family had put pressure on him in order to make him recant. he wanted to take a shortcut through the parking lot. the applicant swore at n. saying that he would show n. the way out and would beat him up. according to the applicant, he had overdone with the beatings. he remained in custody pending investigation. on an unspecified date he was charged with murder 10. the trial judge questioned the applicant’s mother s. who submitted that ch. he confirmed that he had falsely accused the applicant due to the pressure put on him by policemen. on 11 september 2006 the prosecutor asked the court to question s.n. in the conditions excluding visual observation of the witness to the parties to the proceedings. reiterated his earlier statement made to the police which was similar with ch. the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer were allowed to put questions to the witness through the trial secretary. explained he had fear of the applicant’s relatives who put pressure on him. on 31 january 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty of manslaughter and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. ’s testimony during the trial, the court considered it unreliable, in view of ch. the court did not consider d., i., l., naz. on 30 may 2007 the tula regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal.
the applicants are a family who lived in yerevan in a house on a plot of land measuring 1,385.6 sq. m. in total and situated at 13 byuzand street. the second and third applicants are the first applicant’s wife and son. no appeal was made against this judgment and it became final. on 29 december 1998 the plenary session of the court of cassation (the highest judicial instance established by the constitution of 1995 and functioning since 10 july 1998) examined the decision of 22 september 1997 upon a supervisory appeal lodged by the general prosecutor’s office and decided to leave it in force. on 18 july 2000 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan granted the first applicant’s claim. on 1 august 2002 the government adopted decree no. on 22 november 2005 vizkon ltd lodged a claim on behalf of the mayor of yerevan against the srer, seeking to invalidate the registration of the first applicant’s ownership of the plot of land, claiming that it had never been recognised by any judicial act. on an unspecified date, vizkon ltd lodged an appeal on points of law against this judgment. m. in the centre of yerevan in exchange for his revocation of ownership of the house and the plot of land. on 19 april 2006 the applicant sent a reply to the judge informing her of his refusal to sign a friendly settlement. have a meeting and a discussion, and try to find common points in the friendly settlement so that your discussion is efficient.” on 5 may 2006 the court of cassation held another hearing of the appeal. it appears that the first applicant persisted in his reluctance to sign a friendly settlement. on 15 september 2006 the civil court of appeal examined the claim anew and granted it, finding that the first applicant’s ownership right to the plot of land had not been recognised. 759-n of 19 may 2005, if he agreed to sign an agreement and to hand over the property within one month. it appears that the first applicant did not accept the offer. vizkon ltd also joined these proceedings as a third party. during the night of 24 to 25 september 2006 the first applicant felt unwell and was taken by ambulance to hospital, where he was diagnosed with impaired cardiac function. the judgment of the court of appeal of 25 september 2006 entered into force at the time of its delivery and was immediately enforceable.
was stabbed by two persons during an event in a café in the town of kostanay, kazakhstan. a number of eyewitnesses were questioned. and the applicant had stabbed the victim and escaped. he then saw the applicant with a knife in his hands going towards the victim. the cook who worked in the café at the relevant time, stated that she had seen the applicant and b.m. having an argument with the victim and stabbing him, after which both of them had fled. and the applicant attacking the victim and that he had seen a knife in the applicant’s hands. on 21 january 2004 the investigative authorities of kazakhstan brought charges against the applicant and his detention was ordered. since his whereabouts were unknown, a search was initiated for him. on 5 november 2004 the applicant was arrested in armenia. on 29 may 2006 the kostanay regional court found b.m. guilty of murder and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment. the applicant was charged with premeditated murder. he was questioned on the same day and refused to make any statement in respect of the events of 7 october 2000. according to the applicant, the eleven witnesses residing in kazakhstan (see paragraph 7 above), who had made statements against him, were not properly summoned and the regional court did not obtain any proof that they had been notified about the trial. the regional court dismissed this motion. attended an event in ... the café together with g.t. [the applicant’s] guilt ... has been substantiated also by:the judgment of 29.05.2006 of kostanay regional court ...... clarifications provided by expert ... during the above-mentioned court proceedings that there were two penetrating knife injuries on the body ... each one of the injuries could by itself have caused the death. he further complained that the regional court had failed to summon properly the witnesses and relied on their pre-trial statements without good reason. on 31 august 2009 the criminal court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction with reliance on the same evidence.
the case originated in an application (no. 62614/13) against the russian federation lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) by a russian national, mr gayk levonovich sarkisyan (“the applicant”), on 23 september 2013. the applicant was represented by mr a. anokhin and ms m. gordeyeva, lawyers practising in astrakhan. the russian government (“the government”) were represented by mr g. matyushkin, representative of the russian federation at the european court of human rights. on 28 january 2016 the complaints concerning article 5 § 3 and article 5 § 4 were communicated to the government and the remainder of the application was declared inadmissible pursuant to rule 54 § 3 of the rules of court. in particular, the government acknowledged that the applicant had remained in pre-trial detention for an excessively lengthy period in violation of article 5 § 3 of the convention. they offered to pay the applicant 1,200 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention. the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement. in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint under article 5 § 4 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1959 and is currently detained in baia mare prison. on 28 may 2012 the applicant’s appeal against the above-mentioned judgment was rejected with final effect by a five-judge panel of the high court of cassation and justice. the applicant started serving his sentence in gherla prison on 31 may 2012. on 2 april 2013 he was transferred to baia mare prison where he is currently serving his sentence. according to the report drawn up on the applicant’s arrival in gherla prison on 31 may 2012 the applicant was allowed to take with him to his cell, among other items, one glucometer with forty-one test strips and needles as well as several drugs. during his ten-month stay in gherla prison the applicant was taken to the medical ward eighteen times. he was given a special diet for diabetics and was allowed to work. according to the applicant’s medical chart in gherla prison his glycaemia levels were measured two, three or four times per day at the prison’s infirmary. on 9 october 2012 his signature confirmed the receipt of thirteen drugs including vitamin c and omega 3. in addition, he was taken for specialist diabetes and nutrition examinations at the baia mare county hospital nine times between 24 may 2013 and 2 october 2014. according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons the applicant made no complaints concerning his medical treatment. on 5 september 2013 the applicant’s lawyer was informed by the baia mare prison administration that the applicant could not be compensated for the work he had performed in detention with permission to leave the prison. in addition, the food provided during transport had not been adapted to his diabetes. they were fitted with windows, lights, heating and sunroofs. detainees were provided with food and water during transfers, and were allowed bathroom breaks. smoking was strictly prohibited in the vehicles. according to the information provided by the national administration of prisons, the applicant was allowed to take with him his personal glycaemia kit and medication and was therefore able to measure his glycaemia. moreover, during long drives a number of breaks were taken allowing the applicant to administer his treatment. as regards the food received during transport, the applicant was provided with a diabetic menu as follows: during transport to and from gherla prison the applicant received 100 grams of biscuits, 100 grams of cheese, one egg and 500 grams of bread; during transport to and from baia mare prison the applicant received 320 grams of unsalted cheese, two eggs, 300 grams of processed poultry meat, 260 grams of semi-white bread and 250 grams of apples. copies of the prison menus were submitted in support of these assertions.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1984 and moved to live in russia in the early 2000s. in 2009 the applicant’s daughter from a previous marriage moved in with them to attend a primary school. married and on 23 august 2012 their son was born. on 30 march 2013 the applicant was returning home by train after a visit to ukraine, together with the two children. shortly after midnight on 31 march 2013 the russian border control service handed her a notice, informing her that she would not be allowed to re-enter russia, in accordance with the entry and exit procedures act. the notice did not specify the grounds for that decision. it did not state any facts or reasons for the applicant’s exclusion. it subsequently transpired that the basis for the exclusion order was that during her pregnancy in 2012 the applicant had tested positive for hiv and that the hospital had reported her hiv-positive status to the cpa. according to the government, the krasnodar division of the cpa sent the exclusion order to the applicant by registered mail on 19 june 2012. on 24 may 2013 the tsentralnyy district court in sochi rejected the claim in summary fashion, repeating verbatim the text of the exclusion order and holding that it was lawful. on 30 september and 19 december 2013 the krasnodar regional court and the supreme court of russia respectively issued summary decisions, dismissing the application for an examination of the case by the cassation instance. her husband and their son have been living in st petersburg, russia. the husband was unable to visit her in the donetsk region. on 12 march 2015 the constitutional court ruled on a constitutional challenge brought by the applicant and two other aliens and their russian spouses against section 11(2) of the hiv prevention act, section 7(1)(13) of the foreign nationals act, and section 25.10 of the entry and exit procedures act. the constitutional court held as follows:“1. the applicant’s husband appealed and on 22 october 2015 the krasnodar regional court quashed the above judgment, finding that the district court had not heeded the position of the constitutional court and had incorrectly shifted the burden of proof onto the applicant:“the krasnodar office of the consumer protection authority did not produce any evidence of ms ustinova’s conviction under article 122 of the criminal code (infection by hiv) and/or under article 6.1 of the code of administrative offences (concealing the source of hiv infection). nor did it show that she had breached any obligation which the law imposes on hiv-positive individuals, for instance, by refusing to take antiretroviral therapy. the applicant replied that she had only been able to re-enter russia by crossing the border between ukraine and belarus and by continuing from belarus to russia, as there are no controls on the belarus-russia border. as of 16 august 2016, she has not been notified that the exclusion order of 9 june 2012 was formally rescinded and that the border control database was updated accordingly.
the applicant, magyar helsinki bizottság (hungarian helsinki committee), is a non-governmental organisation (ngo) that was founded in 1989. it monitors the implementation of international human-rights standards in hungary, provides legal representation to victims of alleged human-rights abuses and promotes legal education and training both in hungary and abroad. in particular, it focuses on access to justice, conditions of detention, and the effective enforcement of the right to defence. the study summarising the outcome of the project was published in 2007 under the title “without defence”, suggesting that there should be a standard set of criteria developed to assess the quality of defence counsel’s work. together with the ministry of justice and law enforcement and various bar associations, the applicant ngo developed a questionnaire aimed at evaluating the performance of defence counsel. in the applicant ngo’s assessment, its research showed that the system of ex officio appointed defenders did not operate adequately, essentially because the investigative authorities, in particular the police, were free to choose defence counsel from a list compiled by the relevant bar associations. this gave rise to distrust on the part of defendants. the applicant ngo also concluded that the selection system lacked transparency. a similar request by the applicant ngo was rejected by the debrecen police department on 27 august 2009. the debrecen police department requested the discontinuation of the proceedings. on 21 october 2009 the district court found for the applicant ngo, ordering the respondents to release the relevant information within 60 days. the court found that although defence counsel did not qualify as persons performing public duties, they were also not employees or agents of the respondent police departments, and the question whether defence was an activity of a public-interest nature was a matter which should be assessed with reference to its aim and role. the names of defence counsel and the number of their respective appointments did not therefore constitute information of a private nature, in relation to which disclosure would only be possible with the approval of the person concerned. the applicant ngo sought review of the second-instance judgment, maintaining that although the names of the defence counsel and the number of their respective appointments were personal data, this was nevertheless information subject to disclosure in the public interest as being related to the public duties carried out by ex officio defence counsel. it upheld the regional court’s judgment in substance, partly modifying its reasoning. the supreme court considers, in compliance with recommendation no. 1234/h/2006 of the parliamentary commissioner for data protection, that the question of whether an individual was a person performing public duties has to be determined solely on the basis of the provisions of the data act. in so doing, these bodies accomplish their public duties, which are thus terminated with the appointment of defence counsel. following his or her appointment, a defence counsel’s activities constitute private activities although they are performed in pursuance of a public goal. accordingly, under section 19(4) of the data act, the respondent police departments cannot be obliged to surrender such personal data.
the applicants were born in 1963 and 1964 respectively and live in kaunas. on 27 september 2001 the first applicant brought a counterclaim for ltl 167,018, alleging that the claimant company had failed to properly fulfil its contractual obligations. on 28 march 2003 the kaunas regional court instituted bankruptcy proceedings in respect of the first applicant’s company. he claimed that he had not been party to the proceedings even though he was the first applicant’s husband and the private unlimited liability company was a joint matrimonial asset. the second applicant was represented by a lawyer throughout those proceedings. during the proceedings, the second applicant asked for adjournment due to his lawyer’s absence, which was granted. on 19 january 2005 it joined them to the bankruptcy proceedings. on 20 june 2005 the kaunas regional court examined the reopened rent arrears case, concluded that the second applicant should not have been involved in the proceedings and rejected the request of the second applicant to have the decision of the kaunas regional court of 8 april 2002 quashed (see paragraph 6 above). on 6 january 2006 her request was granted by the legal aid service. the case was returned to the kaunas regional court for fresh examination. the applicants started administrative proceedings, complaining about the decisions of the legal aid service not to provide them with legal assistance. the applicants asked for the proceedings to be reopened but their request was dismissed on 8 may 2008 by the supreme administrative court. his request was granted by the kaunas regional court the same day. on 22 august 2006 the time-limit for submissions was extended but the legality of the refusal to grant them legal aid was not examined as it was considered to be outside the court’s jurisdiction. the applicants started administrative proceedings, complaining about the decision of the legal aid service not to provide them with legal assistance. after the examination of the rent arrears case was resumed on 28 june 2007 by the kaunas regional court, the applicants asked for adjournments numerous times due to their own inability to be present. on 21 november 2007 both applicants submitted a request to the legal aid service for legal aid for their representation in the reopened rent arrears case but their requests were dismissed on 27 november 2007 as their claim was directly related to their commercial or independent professional activities (see paragraph 28 below). on 6 october 2009 the court of appeal held an oral hearing where none of the parties were present. the applicants brought proceedings against the state for damages, alleging that the decisions of the domestic courts had been unlawful. they submitted numerous complaints, including about being deprived of legal representation.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in budapest. at the material time, he was a member of parliament and a member of the largest opposition party, the hungarian socialist party. according to the applicant and not contested by the government, during his speech numerous remarks were made. on 25 march 2013 the speaker initiated disciplinary proceedings against the applicant. he submitted a proposal to the plenary to fine him – under section 48(3) of act no. xxxvi of 2012 on parliament and in application of my prerogatives under subparagraph 6 of the same, that parliamentimpose a finewhose amount should be one-third of the mp’s honorarium, that is, huf 131,410. budapest, 25 march 2013signed: lászló kövér”an affirmative decision was adopted by the plenary on 28 march 2013, without any remedy available. tobacco retailers have not had a significant margin, exactly 4.5 per cent. every twenty tobacco retailers will go bankrupt and be replaced by one, that is, instead of every twenty retailers, one will have the concentrated profit. however, the newly introduced 10 per cent profit, now due to the cronies (csókosoknak járó), will result in a situation in which the [new] “national” retailers will have forty times higher profit than was usual. forty-fold profit for the pals and the cronies! tobacco licences are, in europe, normally the privilege of those with impaired working abilities. because this work requires the least mobility, it is locally done and not too complicated. but there is no point in lying; the tens of thousands who have been sacked and their families will not be deceived. i am asking therefore the honourable minister: is your face not burning with shame? and if it is, are you then planning to surrender the power and duly hide your head? the applicant submitted a further interpellation on the same topic on 21 may 2013. you, a mercenary of fidesz, are apparently eager to keep serving the other projects of fidesz as well, that is, what you can buy in these [new] shops will include, in addition to tobacco, alcohol, gambling tickets, newspapers and even things to lick. the category of “things to lick” seems still to be open, but one can fear that whatever you can buy in these “spahi-shops”, such as tax-free spirits, will be prohibited elsewhere. my previous, prohibited question also targeted this issue: is your face not burning with shame?
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in togliatti, samara region. on 19 october 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing. on 20 october 2006 the samarskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody. the court held that the applicant was suspected of a serious crime, that he could abscond, commit crimes, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses or in any other way interfere with the investigation. on 18 december 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention. the court reproduced the reasoning of the previous detention order. the court also indicated that the applicant had played a leading part in the criminal activities. on 15 february 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s pre‑trial detention on the ground that the investigation was still pending and it was necessary to conduct some investigative activities. the court further referred to the same grounds as in the previous detention orders. the samara regional court rejected the applicant’s appeals against the detention orders. on 1 june 2007 the bolshechernigovskiy district court of the samara region convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to 11 years’ imprisonment and a fine. on 21 august 2007 the samara regional court upheld his conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in vilnius. was not injured, but the applicant suffered multiple spinal fractures and serious damage to his spinal cord. he checked that there were no cars in the left-hand lane, coming either from in front or from behind, indicated left and overtook the car. on the same day the investigator examined the applicant’s motorcycle and m.n. on 4 may 2006 the applicant was granted victim status in the investigation and questioned about the details of the accident. on 26 february 2007 the applicant’s mother, r.k., on 29 may 2007 the inquiry found that the police investigator who had carried out the initial investigative measures and who had been responsible for ensuring that the drivers signed the sketch had not performed her duties properly. it found that the speed limit at the location of the accident had been 60 km/h and not 50 km/h, as assumed in the first expert report, which nonetheless meant that the applicant had exceeded the speed limit. having examined the sketch of the accident and the damage to both vehicles, the second report confirmed the conclusion of the first report that the collision had occurred in the right‑hand lane, while the motorcycle was moving into it from the left-hand lane. on 13 august 2008 the district prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation on the grounds that m.n. ’s appeal and reopened the pre-trial investigation. the examination was carried out by a different expert from the forensic science centre. in his report, delivered on 15 may 2009 (hereinafter “the third expert report”), the expert examined the sketch of the accident and photographs of the two vehicles, and estimated that immediately before the collision the applicant had been travelling at a speed of at least 70 km/h, and that it was not possible to determine the speed at which m.n. ’s actions had not amounted to the crime stipulated in article 281 § 3 of the criminal code. on 23 november 2009 the vilnius city second district court ordered a fresh expert examination of the circumstances of the accident. the fourth expert report concluded that the accident had occurred in the right-hand lane and that it had been caused by the applicant who had exceeded the speed limit and had not slowed down in time to avoid the collision. in january and february 2010 the police investigator again questioned the applicant, m.n. and some of the eyewitnesses questioned previously. she complained to the district prosecutor that she had not been given the opportunity to submit additional questions to the expert, in particular, whether having collided with the car, the motorcycle could have risen up in the air and landed in a different lane, as claimed by some eyewitnesses (see paragraph 28 above). the court disagreed with the conclusion that m.n.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in vilnius. from 2 march 1992 to 2 january 2006 the applicant worked at the swedish embassy in vilnius. she stated that since 1998 a major change had been made to her work description – she had started managing cultural affairs, enjoying partial independence in decision-making and a high degree of responsibility for financial matters. pursuant to section 17 of that document, lithuanian legislation was to be complied with as regards dismissal from work and the employer had to have “objective grounds for dismissal”. the applicant was also on sick leave in december 2006 and for some months in 2007. however, before the new ambassador took office, ms naku had not received any complaints about her work during her fourteen years of service. lastly, she noted that as a result of her arbitrary dismissal she had suffered loss of reputation and her health had significantly deteriorated. she stated that she had been destroyed, both psychologically and physically. the embassy, as an institution of a foreign diplomatic service, represents a foreign state, maintains international relations, implements foreign policy goals and defends the rights and interests of its citizens and other individuals. 44/2001 of 22 december 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as to the question of state immunity from foreign courts’ jurisdiction, the supreme court noted the lower courts’ conclusion that “from the title of the applicant’s job description (head of culture and information projects) it was already possible to conclude that the duties which were assigned to her contributed to a certain extent (tam tikru aspektu) to the kingdom of sweden’s implementation of its sovereign functions. the supreme court also held:“... the chamber also observes that international practice is not consistent as concerns the question of which persons working at a diplomatic representation of another state participate in the public functions of the state they represent and who, as a result, work in the civil service of the represented state, on the one hand, and which persons are engaged in activities that are not related to the performance of state functions, and whose activity consequently falls under private law, on the other. the chamber concludes that in the present case, taking into account the fact that the plaintiff [the applicant] worked at the embassy of the kingdom of sweden as the head of cultural and information projects and was thus a member of the administrative-technical staff at the diplomatic representation, the lower courts have correctly established that she and the kingdom of sweden were in a legal civil service relationship regulated by public law. by a ruling of 13 may 2011 the vilnius regional court dismissed her civil claim. it held that she had not proved that she had been dismissed for reasons related to sexual harassment. it was only natural that working duties and the structure of jobs at the embassy had changed. however, should the court establish that the employee may not be reinstated for economic, technological, organisational or similar reasons, or because he may find himself in unfavourable conditions, the court will declare the dismissal unlawful and award the employee his or her average salary from the time of the unlawful dismissal until the execution of the court’s decision, as well as severance pay (article 297 § 4). the public employment act (1994:260) of the kingdom of sweden sets out that the act applies to employees of the swedish parliament and its authorities and to employees of authorities under government control. article 11, in this respect, provides an important guarantee to protect their rights. examples of such employees are private secretaries, code clerks, interpreters, translators and other persons entrusted with functions related to state security or basic interest of the state.
the applicants complained of the excessive length of different civil and criminal proceedings under article 6 § 1 of the convention. all applicants obtained decisions of the constitutional court of serbia, which found a violation of their right to a hearing within reasonable time (see appended table for details of each civil proceedings and constitutional court’s decisions). the court, additionally, declared that the applicants were entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 14, article 90, below). all the applicants filed requests with the commission for compensation for payment of non-pecuniary damages. on 14 october 2010 the commission for compensation offered to pay ms prohaska prodanić rsd 60,000 (at the time approximately eur 600) for non-pecuniary damage incurred and rsd 25,000 for costs and expenses. she refused to accept that payment as the commission did not specify the deadline by which the sum would be paid. on 15 september 2015, the ministry of justice paid her rsd 85,000. the applicant v. tomić contacted the commission for compensation on several occasions and requested the payment of non-pecuniary damage. it would appear that he had received no response. on 16 march 2011 the commission for compensation offered to pay mr d. trpković rsd 35,000 (at the time approximately eur 350), but he refused to accept this amount, deeming it insufficient.
the first applicant was born in 1952 and lives in hausen (canton of aargau). the second applicant, who was born in 1990, is the son of the first applicant. the first applicant entered switzerland in 1997, where he applied for asylum in the same year. at that time, the second applicant remained in egypt, where he was cared for by his mother. the first applicant’s asylum application was rejected by the competent authorities. in march 1999 the first applicant married a swiss national and obtained a residence permit. in 2000 a daughter was born to the couple. in 2002 the second applicant visited his father in switzerland for three months based on a tourist visa valid for that period. in july 2003 the second applicant re-entered switzerland for purposes of family reunification with his father. in august 2004 he obtained swiss nationality and has since held nationality of both switzerland and egypt. the latter continued to live in switzerland with the couple’s daughter. on 1 march 2006 the first applicant lodged a request for family reunification with the second applicant, who was 15 and a half years old at the time and for whom he had custody according to egyptian law. on 15 february 2007 the migration office of the canton of aargau refused that request. subsequently, the migration office of the canton of aargau declared that it would grant a permanent residence permit to the second applicant for purposes of family reunification and, on 28 january 2008, transferred the file to the federal office of migration to seek the required consent. his mother had moved to kuwait with her new spouse and he was now cared for exclusively by his paternal grandmother. it found, second, that the applicants could not rely on article 8 of the convention, as the second applicant had reached the age of adulthood and was not dependant on the first applicant (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 33 below). on 5 july 2010 the federal supreme court dismissed that appeal. it observed that the first applicant had, thus, at that time, preferred that the second applicant lived with his mother and that the second applicant would face even more severe challenges to integration now than he had during his first stay in switzerland, given his age. while noting that the first applicant had a close relationship to his daughter in switzerland and that he could, thus, not be expected to relocate to egypt to live there with the second applicant, the court noted that the applicants had not submitted sufficient reasons to justify the second applicant’s reunion with his father in switzerland. the mother had tried to bring her child to the netherlands as soon as possible after her arrival.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in achkhoy-martan, chechen republic. the kidnappers also took m.’s automatic gun. the soldiers were released by law-enforcement officers on 18 january 2001. on an unspecified date the authorities opened a criminal investigation into the soldiers’ abduction. other perpetrators had not been identified. according to the applicant, on 4 april 2007 at approximately 7 p.m. he was arrested on suspicion of having participated in abduction of m. and p. according to the arrest record, the applicant was arrested on 5 april 2007 at 10:40 a.m. 8. on 6 april 2007 the achkhoy-martan district court of the chechen republic authorised the applicant’s detention pending the criminal proceedings against him. on an unspecified date the investigator questioned m. and p. both of them submitted that they had been abducted from the inner yard adjacent to the applicant’s house. they had come to the applicant’s house to buy drugs. the applicant had asked them to enter to help him move the car that had been parked inside. after they had been done with the car, they had been attacked by four persons. m. had cried out to the applicant for help, but the applicant had done nothing. after that they had been blindfolded, put in a car and taken to another place. on 26 june 2007 the district court found the applicant guilty of abduction and theft of firearms and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. the court relied on the statements of m. and p. given during the questioning by the investigator, the written statements made by their parents to whom m. and p. had told about their abduction, the written statements made by other soldiers who confirmed that m. and p. had been missing in 2001. testified in court as regards his questioning of m. and p. the court also heard a number of the applicant’s relatives and neighbours who testified as to the applicant’s character and the curfew introduced in the village in 2001 and studied the materials from the case-file prepared by the investigator. as regards the use of m. and p.’s written statements, the court noted as follows:“... according to [the rules of criminal procedure], if the victim of the crime fails to appear in court, the court, if requested by a party to the proceedings or of its own motion, may decide to have the [victim’s] earlier statement read out in the event of a natural calamity or other extraordinary circumstances preventing the [victim’s] appearance in court. the court considers such circumstances to be extraordinary and preventing the victims from appearing in court.” on 15 august 2007 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. on 26 december 2011 the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lived in the sverdlovsk region. on 6 april 2012 the leninskiy district court in nizhniy tagil issued a detention order in respect of the applicant who had been charged with murder and had absconded. the order was to be valid for an initial period of two months following the applicant’s arrest. on 19 february 2013 the applicant was apprehended in china and extradited to russia. on 30 april 2013 the leninskiy district prosecutor asked the district court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further two months. on the same day the district court granted the application in part. it extended the authorised period of detention “for one month, until 19 may”. he complained, in particular, that the initial two-month detention period had expired already on 19 april 2013 and that his subsequent detention had been unlawful. on 10 june 2013 the sverdlovsk regional court rejected the appeal. on 26 september 2013 a judge of the regional court refused the applicant leave to appeal to the regional cassation instance. on 4 march 2014 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused the applicant leave to appeal to the supreme court. the judge noted, in particular, that the belated filing of an application for an extension of the authorised period of detention was not a ground for varying the custodial measure.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in helsinki, finland. in the criminal proceedings t. was heard as a witness. in its judgment the domestic court dismissed the applicant’s argument that he had shot the victim in self-defence. the applicant was subsequently transferred to finland to serve his prison sentence. he claimed compensation for damage caused as a consequence of the offence (damaged chair which had been hit by the bullet, damaged or lost belongings (mostly various items used to wrap parts of the victim’s cut up body), damaged flooring after the police had cut out a piece of parquet with a bullet mark to serve as evidence, a lock cylinder removed for evidence, cleaning bills, unpaid utility bills) in the amount of 28,259 kroons (eek) (corresponding to approximately 1,806 euros (eur)). he further contended that he had not committed murder but had shot the victim in self-defence; in so far as the alleged damage related to the collection of evidence, it had been caused by the police; the claims were unsubstantiated in part. he stated that he wished to explain that he had not caused the damage and had acted in self-defence. he also submitted additional evidence to the court (a photo of one of the items in question; a bank statement about the payment of utility bills; price lists to prove the cost of another damaged item and the cost of cleaning services). on 8 july 2010 the county court ruled that the case was to be examined in written proceedings (kirjalik menetlus) under article 404 of the ccp. it then went on to explain that under article 404 of the ccp a written procedure could be applied when the amount of the claim was under 50,000 kroons (eur 3,196) and a party’s appearance in court was significantly hindered by a long distance or for any other good reason. no submissions were made to the court within the thirty-day time limit. relying on the judgment in the criminal case, the county court considered it established that the applicant had not acted in self-defence when he killed the victim. it was noted in the judgment that an appeal lay to the tallinn court of appeal and that the appeal could be examined in a written procedure unless examination at a court hearing had been requested in the appeal. on 22 december 2010 the applicant filed an appeal against the county court’s judgment. he complained that, although he had requested an oral hearing before the county court, no hearing had been held. in such circumstances, the court of appeal could only accept an appeal for examination if the county court in its judgment had granted leave to appeal or a provision of substantive or procedural law had clearly been incorrectly applied or it was clear that the evidence had been wrongly assessed and this could have significantly influenced the court’s ruling. the county court had not granted leave to appeal. however, for that it was not necessary for a court hearing (kohtuistung) to be conducted. the court of appeal further noted that the applicant had not objected under article 333 §§ 1 and 2 of the ccp to the county court’s decision of 8 july 2010 whereby the court had ordered that the case be examined in simplified proceedings and requested the applicant to make his submissions in writing. on 30 may 2011 the supreme court decided not to examine the appeal.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in sofia. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and the applicant was to be compensated with another, three-room, flat. the flats were to be situated in a building which had to be constructed by the bureau for servicing the diplomatic corps (“the bsdc”). the one to be provided to the applicant’s father measured 64.26 square metres. in 1987 the applicant’s parents and the applicant and his family were settled in a two-room municipally-owned flat. in 1991 the plans for the construction of the building where the future flats offered in compensation were to be located were cancelled. the expropriated house was pulled down and the construction works on the plot of land started on an unspecified date. in february 1996 the applicant’s father passed away. he was not required to pay an additional amount for the bigger flat. in the years that followed the applicant filed numerous requests with the authorities, asking them to find a suitable two-room flat to be provided to him and his mother in lieu of the one which had initially been due. on several occasions before 2001 the bsdc proposed flats but the applicant and his mother turned them down, either because they were not in the vicinity of the expropriated property or because they were not self-contained dwellings. on 10 june 2004 the applicant requested that the mayor of sofia offer as compensation one of the several flats in the vicinity of the expropriated property managed by the ministry of foreign affairs, successor to the bsdc. the request was made in accordance with section 103 (5) of the tupa providing for the so-called re-compensation (преобезщетяване). as no response followed, the applicant lodged an appeal against the mayor’s tacit refusal. the ministry of foreign affairs also participated in the proceedings. in a final judgment of 9 april 2008 the supreme administrative court quashed the tacit refusal and remitted the case back to the mayor for examination of the request. it appears that even after that judgment the mayor never took a decision on the applicant’s request for re-compensation. in the meantime, the applicant’s mother was evicted from the municipally-owned flat she had been occupying. in 2007 she died, whereupon the applicant became the sole owner of the future flat allocated in compensation to his father for the 1987 expropriation. it is unclear whether any decision on the matter has been taken after that.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in baku. brought a civil action against her husband for divorce. fell from the balcony of a flat on the seventh floor of a block of flats. was admitted to the clinical medical centre where she was placed in the intensive care unit. was transferred to the oil workers’ hospital where she died on the same day. it appears from the documents in the case file that in november 2006, and in january, march and april 2007, various people, including the applicant, s.j. on 24 and 26 february 2007 an investigator at the baku city prosecutor’s office ordered a commission to carry out a forensic examination of s.j. the experts, who conducted the examination on the basis of s.j. ’s body, finding that there was a causal link between the injuries she had sustained and her death. on 24 august 2007 the investigator ordered a new forensic examination of s.j. ’s body and in what order they had been inflicted. had been feeling low before her death and that signs of depression and neurological issues had been observed at that time. a commission composed of five experts issued forensic report no. on 24 september 2008 the applicant lodged a request with the investigator in charge of the case to reclassify it under article 120 of the criminal code (murder). by a letter of 10 november 2008, the deputy prosecutor general rejected the request. ’s body which had been sustained before her fall from the balcony. could have fallen to the place her body was found as a result of jumping from the balcony. by a decision of 13 september 2011, the sabail district court decided to transfer the case to the appellate court to determine which court had jurisdiction. in the meantime, on 28 december 2011 the investigator decided to terminate the criminal proceedings for failure to identify the perpetrator of the crime, although all the relevant investigative actions had been carried out. on 27 february 2013 the nasimi district court granted the applicant’s appeal and overruled the investigator’s decision of 30 november 2012.
the first applicant was born in 1969 and is serving a life sentence in perekhrestivka in the sumy region (oblast). the attacks were initially investigated by the authorities as unrelated crimes committed by unidentified people. according to the government, on 29 october 2001 the first applicant was charged in absentia with participation in the kharkiv attacks, which had been classified as robberies. on 4 and 11 february 2002 the first applicant signed two documents explaining in detail his rights as a suspect or accused in the course of the pre-trial investigation, including the right to have a lawyer appointed for him, to consult a lawyer before being questioned for the first time and the right to remain silent. on 14 october 2001 the second applicant was arrested. and described the active role that the first applicant had played in them. on 7 november 2001 the second applicant was questioned in the presence of his lawyer about the circumstances of the crimea attack (episode 7) and participated in a reconstruction. subsequently, the second applicant also confessed to participation in in several other attacks. he retracted his confessions later in the investigation. in particular, in describing the attack on the shoe sellers, he stated that the applicants had followed the victims in a car while mr zakshevskiy, i.k. on 28 march, 23 april and 10 july 2002 s.s. he stated that he had been present at the scene of the luhansk murder in a red bmw and had observed a.b. arrested in belarus in december 2001, i.k. episodes 4, 6 and 7 respectively) to court. he asked not to be called again, citing his extreme poverty and the long distance to the court. it convicted the applicants of banditry, armed robbery and related offences of carjacking, aggravated murder and attempted aggravated murder. ten pages of the judgment were dedicated to whether the defendants’ pre-trial statements could be used in evidence even though they had been retracted. afterwards, he examined the case file on at least five days up to 2 august 2006. the second applicant submitted, in particular, that in the course of his pre-trial interviews r.m. however, that picture, in the second applicant’s opinion, had not looked like him.
as of 19 february 2011, the date on which he lodged his application with the court, he was serving his sentence of imprisonment in a penitentiary institution in yerevan. on 27 april 2009 the applicant, together with his friend d.t. and remained in the penitentiary facility in order to start the formalities. he signed a warning concerning the responsibility for sending prohibited items to a prisoner. subsequent inspection of the parcel revealed that there was a disposable syringe filled with liquid inside the cake. on the same date the investigator decided to assign a forensic medical examination of the items discovered. following the confrontation, the applicant complained about the way it had been conducted. which were neither recorded nor answered. in this connection the deputy prosecutor of the syunik region questioned the applicant on 6 november 2009 and recorded his complaints. residents of the town of kapan, and g.b., by letter of 22 february 2010 the police informed judge d. that m.s. ’s mother, he had left for yerevan at the end of february to undergo medical treatment. has not resided in the city of kapan since january 2010, he went to saint petersburg, russian federation, and d.t. is receiving medical treatment in yerevan. i did not enter the drop-off room after the cake was delivered. [the applicant] pleaded not guilty and reiterated his statements made during the investigation ... that ... when they brought the cake, he had already signed [the papers] ... then they brought the cake and gave it to [g.b.]. ’s statement before the court, several young men among whom he had recognised [the applicant], came to visit prisoner m.k. during the inspection of the cake a medical disposable syringe ... was discovered inside the cake...witness a.a. ... the pre-trial statement of witness d.o ...a warning according to which [the applicant] handed over a parcel addressed to [m.k.] on 20 july 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law complaining, inter alia, of the non-examination of witnesses against him either in the regional court or in the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in yambol. the applicant and his brother co-owned a house with a yard and a garage in yambol. by a decision of the mayor of 31 january 1983 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), stated that the applicant and his brother were to be compensated with flats in a building which the municipality intended to construct. on an unspecified date the flats were constructed and delivered to the applicant and his brother. on 13 july 1994 the mayor modified the decision of 31 january 1983, stating that the two brothers were also to be compensated with a common garage. the applicant’s brother informed the mayor that he renounced his right to compensation with a garage in the applicant’s favour. by a supplementary decision of 30 may 1995, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor held that the applicant was to be compensated with the right to build a garage on a municipal land and determined the exact location of the future garage. the applicant did not appeal against that decision and apparently prepared to start the construction works. by a decision of 9 october 2002 the mayor modified the previous decision of 30 may 1995, indicating another municipal plot of land where the future garage was to be built, as it had turned out that the previous one was not owned by the municipality. that decision was not appealed against by the applicant, but was eventually set aside by the yambol regional governor after it had been contested by third persons. on an unspecified date in 2010 the applicant brought a tort action against the yambol municipality, claiming a wrongful failure on its part to provide him with a garage. the action was dismissed, the final judgment being given by the supreme administrative court on 30 march 2011. the domestic courts held that no unlawful inactivity on the part of the authorities had been established, neither had it been shown that the applicant had sustained any damage. in june 2011 the applicant agreed to receive compensation in cash in lieu of the garage due to him. it appears that the municipality had been offering such a solution since 2007. the compensation in cash was paid to the applicant on 4 april 2012.
two conversations with a person using a mobile phone belonging to a certain i.k., which were recorded on 4 september 2009, appeared to incriminate the applicant: one between a woman identified as r.g. and a man known as kiril, later identified as the applicant, and the other between the same woman and another man, in which the same kiril was referred to in terms suggesting that he was involved in the prostitution ring. a judicial investigation was opened on 2 october 2009 into alleged offences of living on the earnings of prostitution with aggravating circumstances, committed as part of an organised gang; trafficking in human beings, committed as part of an organised gang; and criminal conspiracy. a warrant for the applicant’s arrest was issued on 28 july 2010 by judge n.c., the vice-president responsible for the investigation at the lyons tribunal de grande instance. at 10.56 a.m. on 20 december 2010 he was brought for the first time before b.g., the investigating judge dealing with the case, who placed him under formal investigation for the above-mentioned offences. at about 5 p.m. on the same day, the lyons liberties and detention judge, to whom the matter had been referred by the investigating judge, interviewed the applicant and remanded him in custody pending trial. he submitted two requests for preliminary rulings on constitutionality, concerning respectively the seventh paragraph of article 64-1 and the seventh paragraph of article 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure, pursuant to which no video recording had been made of the interviews and confrontations. on 6 september 2011 the investigation division dismissed most of the application to have the procedural steps declared void (except for one point concerning the interception of telephone conversations), in particular restating the reason given in its previous decision of 13 january 2011. in two further judgments delivered on the same day, it referred the requests for preliminary rulings on constitutionality to the court of cassation. on 18 january 2012 the court of cassation referred the requests for preliminary rulings on constitutionality to the constitutional council and deferred judgment pending the council’s decision. in a judgment of 10 may 2012 the criminal division of the court of cassation dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. ... it rejected his argument that there had been violations of the convention (he had relied on articles 6 and 14 of the convention and, more broadly, the right to a fair trial and the prohibition of discrimination) and the constitution as a result of the application of the seventh paragraphs of articles 64-1 and 116-1 of the code of criminal procedure in his case. firstly, it held that the constitutional council had specified that the abrogation of the provisions in question would apply only in the case of persons in police custody or under formal investigation who were questioned or interviewed following the publication of its decision, so that his argument had in that respect become devoid of purpose. in a judgment of 28 october 2011 the lyons criminal court found the applicant guilty of the alleged offences, although it dismissed the charge of trafficking in human beings. it sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment and a fine of 10,000 euros (eur). in a judgment of 20 july 2012 the lyons court of appeal upheld the judgment as to the issue of guilt and sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment with a minimum term of two-thirds of the sentence, as well as imposing a fine eur 10,000 and a five-year exclusion order from the départements of savoie and bas-rhin. an appeal on points of law by the applicant – whose sole argument was that french criminal law was not applicable – was rejected by the criminal division of the court of cassation in a judgment of 12 june 2013.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. at the time of the events the applicant had previous convictions from 1983 and 1989. he was released from prison in october 2002. following his release from prison the applicant cohabited with t.b. in the village of blahovishchenka, in the zaporizhzhya region. the latter was taken to hospital, but he died shortly afterwards. at 2.00 a.m. on 25 april 2006 the applicant confessed that he had had a fight with sh., according to the report, the applicant was suspected of murder. on 26 april 2006 the applicant was allowed to consult a lawyer for the first time. when falling down from the blows he had received from him. he then made statements about the incident which were similar to those which he had made earlier. on 15 june 2006 the applicant was charged with aggravated murder and questioned again in the presence of his lawyer. that day, he stated that he had acted in self-defence, as sh. during the trial, he stated that he had fatally stabbed sh., it referred in particular to the applicant’s self-incriminating statements made on 25 april 2006 and later. his allegation that he had acted in self-defence was rejected as unsubstantiated. however, having regard to his behaviour immediately after the incident, namely the efforts he had made to provide the victim with medical assistance, it reduced the sentence to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 16 august 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the court of appeal, asking for permission to correspond with his relatives. his application was registered by the sizo mailing service under number 2/k‑517. on 2 october 2006 the applicant made the same application, which was registered by the sizo mailing service under number 2/k-579.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in sofia. the applicant was one of the co-owners of a house with a yard in the town of troyan. even though the applicant lived in sofia, she apparently continued to keep in it possessions of hers. the building where the applicant’s flat was initially to be located was finished in 2003, but it was smaller than originally planned and no flat in it could be offered to the applicant. the reason for the change of plans, which had been decided upon in 1995, was the restitution of part of the land earmarked for the construction to its previous owners, under restitution legislation adopted in 1992. the permit was renewed in 2004, 2007 and 2010. in the meantime, construction plans were approved, and towards the end of 2003 the municipality allocated the flats to their future owners. the newly allocated flat measured 94 square metres, slightly bigger in size than the one offered in 1990. nevertheless, dissatisfied with the decision of 13 january 2004, the applicant challenged it before the courts, claiming that it impermissibly modified the 1990 decision dealing with the same matter. the proceedings continued until 20 november 2007 when, in a final judgment, the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for judicial review. in the meantime, in 2005 the applicant made a request to the mayor, seeking the revocation of the 1983 expropriation order in respect of her share of the property. the ensuing proceedings were initially stayed to await the outcome of those described in the previous paragraph. once they were resumed, in a final judgment of 24 july 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review, finding that the preconditions for restitution had not been met. the applicant applied for the judicial review of both orders. the first one was upheld by the courts in a final judgment of 14 february 2011, and the second one on 20 april 2010. meanwhile, in september 2009 the applicant was evicted. the house was pulled down on an unspecified date, after which the municipality selected a company to carry out the construction works on the site, which started in april 2011. the building was finished in 2014 and in july 2014 the applicant was invited to receive the keys to her flat. she refused to do so and instead of that challenged before the courts the authorization for the building to be used, claiming in particular that the construction had not been of sufficient quality. the course of these proceedings is unclear.
the applicants live or lived (the second applicant) in split. the applicants’ other personal details are set out in the appendix. except for the third and the fourth applicants who are the co-owners of the same flat, each applicant is (and the second applicant was before her death) the owner of a flat in split occupied by “protected lessees” (zaštićeni najmoprimci). in 2005 the applicants brought civil actions before the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu), seeking to obtain judgements ordering the state to pay them the difference between the protected rent they were entitled to receive under the domestic legislation and the market rent they could have obtained if their flats were not subject to the protected lease scheme. the applicants relied, inter alia, on article 48 § 1 and article 50 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 18 below). the split municipal court dismissed the applicants’ actions as unfounded. by decisions of 25 january and 14 december 2011 and 29 march and 9 february 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ constitutional complaints, respectively. according to the information submitted by the applicants, the level of the monthly protected rent for their flats changed in the period after the entry into force of the convention in respect of croatia (5 november 1997) in the manner indicated below. 41555/12 and 41558/12size of the flat in square metresthe amount of the protected rent in hrkperiod 160.085 september 2012 - onwardsthe amount of protected rent for the fifth applicant’s flatapplication no. 48914/12size of the flat in square metresthe amount of the protected rent in hrkperiod 11. according to the applicants, the condominium fee paid into the common reserve fund by the owners of the flat for maintenance etc., for the first applicant’s flat was set at 140 croatian kunas (hrk) on 1 march 1998 and has not been changed since. for the third and fourth applicants, as the co-owners of the same flat, the condominium fee was set at hrk 101.20 on 1 january 1998 and has not changed since. as to the second and the fifth applicants’ flats, the condominium fee has never been set. the government did not contest this information. according to the applicants, they never paid any income tax on the income generated by renting out their flats subject to the protected lease scheme. the applicants furnished information as regards the monthly market rent for renting out flats in the vicinity of theirs. the second and fifth applicants submitted:- an advertisement from the newspapers of 16 december 1998 offering for rent a furnished flat of 78 m² for dem 800 per month,- an advertisement from the internet dated 4 december 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 85 m² for eur 1,200 per month, and another one of 8 july 2014 offering for rent a furnished flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month,- an advertisement of a real-estate agency offering for rent a flat of 80 m² for eur 1,000 per month. these applicants also claimed that their flats could be offered for rent during high season for eur 150 per day. the data submitted referred to nine flats and read as follows:  size in square metresmonthly rent in hrkrelevant period381,850.002009 - 2012604,777.372007 - 201026 900.002005 - 2012361,473.122011 - 2012625,320.002015623,800.002010 - 2014471,475.002010 - 2012561,000.002008 - 2009
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in samara. at about 8.35 p.m. on 14 october 2009 the applicant was apprehended by officers of the federal service for drug control (фсkн, “the drugs police”) during a test purchase of drugs from him. according to the applicant, he was brought to their premises at around 11 p.m. his account was corroborated by two drug police officers and two attesting witnesses. furthermore, at around 2 a.m. on the following day he was put in a cell that had not bed or stool, light, lavatory or running water, and was smeared with dirt and faeces. during his detention he had not been provided with food or drink, or permitted to use the toilet, but had had to urinate in a plastic bottle. at 6.30 p.m. a criminal case was instituted against the applicant, and thirty minutes later an investigator drew the arrest record, thus formally remanding the applicant in custody. at 11.55 p.m. on the same day he was transferred to a temporary detention centre. on 16 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara remanded the applicant in custody. in particular, the court mentioned the following arguments: seriousness and nature of charges; previous conviction not being expunged; absence of “regular source of income”; hence possibility of continuing criminal activities or absconding or obstructing justice in any other manner. on 11 december 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 15 january 2010 finding that the grounds on which the preventive measure had previously been imposed still persisted and there was no reason to vary the preventive measure. additionally, the court mentioned that the applicant had permanent place of residence and employment but it further stated that the applicant “did not have a regular source of income”. on 22 december 2009 the samara regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the reasoning of the district court. the prosecutor was present at the appeal hearing unlike both the applicant and his counsel. on 12 february 2010 the kuybyshevskiy district court of samara found the applicant guilty of selling large quantities of narcotics and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment in a strict-security institution. on 4 may 2010 the samara regional court upheld the conviction. the prosecutor was present at the appeal hearing whereas both the applicant and his counsel were absent.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is currently serving a sentence in a correctional colony in the tambov region. on 17 july 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery. on the following day the meshchanskiy district court of moscow authorised his detention. on 6 september 2007 the taganskiy district court extended the detention. that detention order was upheld on appeal on 22 october 2007 by the moscow city court. another extensions of detention followed on 16 october 2007 and 11 december 2007. the applicant appealed against both detention orders. on 17 january 2008 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment. the conviction became final on 19 march 2008. on 2 july 2008, in reply to the applicant’s complaint about the failure to examine his appeal, the city court informed him that his appeal against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was not received by the city court. however, by a letter of 22 august 2008 the city court forwarded the applicant’s appeal statement lodged on 17 october 2007 to the district court, requiring it to perform procedural steps necessary to initiate the appeal proceedings. the city court also informed the applicant that his appeal complaint of 17 october 2007 was mistakenly attached to another case-file. no further information on organisation of the appeal hearing against the detention order of 16 october 2007 was provided.
the applicant was born in 1982 in achinsk, krasnoyarsk region. he was sent to krasnoyarsk region correctional colony no. he was allegedly beaten up by epkt guards on two occasions. thereafter he was dragged back to his cell where he was locked up alone. the doctor diagnosed lumbalgia, prescribed drugs and ointment, and noted in his file that the applicant’s skin was “peculiarity‑free”. in addition, he also made a written statement that his back pain and leg problems were chronic and that he had not been ill-treated in the correctional colony. in the summer of 2008 the applicant started using crutches. the treatment was effective and on 21 november 2008 he was discharged. the doctor prescribed a drug regimen and recommended that the applicant not use crutches. in the beginning of 2009 the applicant’s leg swelled again. the illnesses were addressed with drug therapy. the investigating authorities collected extracts from the applicant’s medical records and written explanations from a guard who had been allegedly involved in the beatings. tired of the difficulties of prison life, the applicant had allegedly told the inmates that he had intended to use his chronic ailments to obtain a transfer to a hospital, where he “could rest”. the window itself, measuring 90 by 60 centimetres, allowed sufficient daylight. the applicant was given uniform, underwear and slippers. in june 2008 the applicant lodged a claim seeking compensation for non-pecuniary damage allegedly caused by the poor conditions of his detention in the prison hospital and ineffective medical care. on 30 december 2008 the court ordered an expert report to assess the quality of the medical treatment afforded to the applicant in detention. the parties to the proceedings did not appear. the experts also stressed that there were no scientifically available means to properly diagnose the applicant’s deep-vein thrombosis before the illness had manifested itself through acute symptoms, such as pain. in the meantime the applicant asked the town court to ensure his presence at the hearing.
the applicant company is a limited liability company incorporated under croatian law, which has its seat in zagreb. on 21 june 2000 the applicant company instituted civil proceedings before the zagreb municipal court (općinski sud u zagrebu) against the croatian health insurance fund seeking payment of 11,500 croatian kunas (hrk)[1] which had been unjustifiably seized from the company’s bank account for the alleged failure to pay health insurance contributions. the municipal court scheduled sixteen hearings of which six were adjourned (in the period between 10 may 2005 and 3 november 2009) at the request of the applicant company. the applicant company’s director failed to attend the hearing scheduled for 6 november 2006 without giving any reasons for his absence. therefore, by a decision of the same day, the court decided to suspend the proceedings (mirovanje postupka) pursuant to the law. the proceedings continued upon the request of the applicant company of 21 february 2007. the statutory conditions for the suspension of proceedings were again fulfilled on 2 march 2010 when the applicant company’s director attended the hearing but failed to engage in litigation. accordingly, on the same date the municipal court issued a decision declaring that the applicant company’s action was to be considered withdrawn, pursuant to the law. by a decision of 17 september 2010 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant company against the first-instance decision. the county court’s decision was served on the applicant company on 3 january 2011. meanwhile, on 1 april 2010 the applicant company lodged a request for protection of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time (zahtjev za zaštitu prava na suđenje u razumnom roku) with the zagreb county court, complaining about the excessive length of the above civil proceedings. on 3 september 2010 the applicant company’s request was forwarded to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske). by a decision of 13 july 2011 the supreme court found a violation of the applicant company’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded it hrk 5,000[2] in compensation. it held that (a) even though there were no substantial periods of inactivity the mere fact that the municipal court had scheduled sixteen hearings suggested that the proceedings had not been conducted efficiently, and (b) the conduct of the applicant company significantly contributed to their length (see paragraphs 6-8 above). by a decision of 6 september 2012 a three-judge panel of the supreme court dismissed the appeal and served its decision on the applicant company on 13 november 2012. by a decision of 31 january 2013 the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) declared inadmissible the applicant company’s subsequent constitutional complaint, and served that decision on the company on 23 march 2013. the constitutional court held that the contested second-instance decision was not open to constitutional review.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in kragujevac. on 13 december 2006 the applicant filed a civil claim in criminal proceedings as injured party. on 18 november 2010 the kragujevac court of first instance delivered the first instance judgment. on 20 october 2011 the kragujevac appellate court delivered the second instance judgment. this judgment was delivered to the applicant on 7 november 2011. on 18 february 2014 the constitutional court of serbia rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
the applicants were born in 1964 and 1975 respectively and lived in moscow. on 5 april 2005 the presnenskiy district court in moscow found the applicants and their co-defendants guilty of extortion and gave them a custodial sentence. on 31 october 2005 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal. on 26 january 2006 the presidium of the city court quashed the appeal judgment of 31 october 2005 for formal defects and ordered a new appeal hearing. it did not mention the matter of the defendants’ detention. no ordinary appeal lay against that decision but the second applicant complained to the supreme court about the city court’s failure to render a decision on his measure. on 13 december 2006 a judge of the supreme court rejected his complaint, finding as follows:“the fact that [the presidium of the city court] unjustifiably (необоснованно) omitted to rule on the preventive measure is not a ground for setting aside its decision because it appears from the ... city court’s decision of 26 july 2006 and the ... district court’s decision of 31 august 2006 that the matter of detention was addressed in subsequent judicial decision which maintained the custodial measure in respect of [the second applicant].” on 26 july 2006 the city court held a new appeal hearing and quashed the initial conviction for formal defects, ordering a re-trial. it also held that there were no grounds for varying the preventive measure and maintained it without setting a time-limit or relying on any provisions of the domestic law. on 21 august 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing and fixed the trial date for 31 august. it maintained the custodial measure, without citing any reasons, references to the domestic law or time-limits. on 31 august 2006 the district court returned the case file to prosecutor and extended the applicants’ detention, referring to the gravity of the charges but without setting a time-limit. on 30 october 2006 the city court rejected the applicants’ appeals against the extension order. on 16 january 2007 the district court extended the applicants’ detention until 28 february 2007, relying on the gravity of the charges and unspecified circumstances that indicated a risk of perverting the course of justice. on 21 february 2007 the city court quashed the detention order of 16 january because of an incorrect date in its text. it maintained the custodial measure without giving reasons. on 27 february 2007 the district court issued an identically worded detention order which was upheld on appeal on 16 april. the extension order was upheld on appeal on 25 june 2007. further extensions were approved by the district court on 27 and 28 april (upheld on appeal on 25 june), 8 and 16 may (upheld on appeal on 23 july), and 13 june 2007 (upheld on appeal on 1 august). on 11 october 2007 the district court found the defendants guilty and gave them custodial sentences.
the applicants were born in 1985 and 1980 and live in jilemnice and prague respectively. she therefore did not leave until the next day, when she presented a letter from her paediatrician, who confirmed that the applicant would take care of the child. in 2010 the applicant became pregnant for the second time with an expected delivery date in the middle of may 2011. the pregnancy was free from complications and the medical examinations and tests did not indicate any problems. however, she was unable to find any midwife who was willing to assist her with a home birth. not having found any health professional to assist her, the applicant gave birth to her son alone at home on 11 may 2011. the applicant is the mother of two children who were born at home in 2008 and 2010 with the assistance of a midwife. according to the applicant, before deciding to give birth at home, she had visited several hospitals, which had all refused her requests to deliver the baby without any medical intervention that was not strictly necessary. they had also refused to agree to her wish for uninterrupted contact with the baby from the moment of birth, as the regular practice was to take the child away from the mother immediately after the birth to be weighed and measured and for further medical observation for a period of two hours. at the time of lodging the present application, the applicant was pregnant again, with an expected delivery in the middle of may 2012. in a letter of 18 november 2011 the ministry of health replied that it did not provide medical services to individual patients and that the applicant should make enquiries to the city of prague (město praha), which, acting as a regional office, registered and issued licences to health professionals. 8/2013 published on 9 december 2013, which replaced the previous practice guidelines of 2007, the ministry of health described the procedure for providers of health-care services when discharging newborns into their own social environment. in other european countries the figures ranged from 0.5% in sweden and italy to 4.7% in azerbaijan. the reported data regarding stillbirths were not adjusted to this effect in the study. several have been prosecuted, however, for alleged malpractice in connection with a delivery at home. the applicants referred to the cases of ms š. she was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and prohibited from practising the occupation of midwife for three years. was eventually acquitted by the district court on 23 may 2016. according to the court, the malpractice on the part of ms k. consisted in the fact that she had not followed the standard procedures for deliveries as laid down by the czech medical association (česká lékařská komora) and her conduct had thus been non lege artis. moreover, it had been established that she had tried to help the baby and had called an ambulance immediately after establishing that the baby had hypoxia.
the first and second applicants were born in 1940 and 1942 respectively and live in kaunas. the four buyers paid, in equal parts, a total of 15,000 lithuanian litai (ltl; approximately 4,344 euros (eur)) to g.o. on 25 june 2001 the vca issued documents confirming the applicants’ and v.m. in august and september 2001 the applicants, represented by v.m., it was suspected that an organised criminal group was forging documents showing deportee status in order to obtain priority rights in the property restoration process. stated that in 1994 he had befriended e.k. that it was better if the contract with that person (g.o.) submitted that he had not known the buyers previously and had only met them when signing the agreements. was again interviewed as a witness in the investigation. and all the administrative decisions which had allocated land to them, to be overturned. that claim was amended in june and september 2002 and june 2005. it overturned the administrative decisions which had allocated the land to the applicants. accordingly, the court ordered the applicants to return to the state an amount corresponding to the market value of the land at the time they sold it, as that value was the lowest. the applicants appealed against that judgment; on 6 june 2006 the vilnius regional court dismissed their appeal. it held that ignorance of the law could not absolve anyone of responsibility, and thus the applicants should have known that property rights had been restored to them in breach of peremptory legal norms, especially as there was information that they had been advised by e.k., on 29 june 2007 the applicants submitted a claim against the state for pecuniary damages before the vilnius regional administrative court. on 13 march 2008 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim for damages. the applicants appealed against that judgment. relying on the supreme court’s judgment of 5 june 2007 (see paragraph 19 above), the supreme administrative court considered that the applicants had abused their rights by attempting to get from the state more land than g.o. the government submitted that in the future, when the applicants were provided with new plots of land (see paragraphs 28-30 below), the remaining amount could be recovered from those plots.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in donetsk. on 29 may 1997 the donetsk kirovskyy district court (“the kirovskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of robbery and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. on 26 september 1997 the same court, following an objection (протест) by its president, quashed the decision of 18 july 1997 and upheld the judgment of 29 may 1997 by a final decision. in october 1997 the kirovskyy court sent its judgment to the local police with a view to ensuring its enforcement. although he was placed on a wanted list for a brief period in december 1997, neither during that period nor thereafter did the police try to contact him. after several rounds of proceedings, on 23 march 2006 the kirovskyy court allowed the applicant’s claim and found the impugned actions of the police officers unlawful. the court found no evidence in the case file that the applicant had been informed of the court hearing and the final decision of 26 september 1997. he had been arrested more than five years later. in the meantime, on 27 april 2005, the dzerzhynskyy local court ordered the applicant’s release on parole. the applicant was released on 4 may 2005 once all the formalities had been completed. in 2006 the applicant lodged a claim for damages against the ministry of the interior on account of his unlawful arrest and detention. he relied on the compensation act, under which a person could claim such compensation if the unlawfulness of his or her arrest and detention had been established by a judicial decision (see paragraph 26 below). the applicant referred in that connection to the court’s decision of 23 march 2006, in which his deprivation of liberty had been found to be unlawful (see paragraph 12 above). on 26 june 2007 the regional court upheld that decision. on 22 august 2007 the applicant’s representative, g., appealed on points of law. on 6 september 2007 the supreme court gave the applicant a deadline of 16 october 2007 to submit the power of attorney. as confirmed by a postal acknowledgement of receipt, on 17 october 2007 the supreme court received a registered letter from the applicant’s representative, which had been dispatched on 12 october 2007 and which concerned the case under the number indicated in the ruling of 6 september 2007. according to the applicant, his representative had sent the requested authority form by the above-mentioned registered letter. according to the government, the content of that letter and the documents enclosed, if any, could not be established in the absence of their detailed description on the acknowledgment of receipt. according to the applicant, his representative received it on 24 november 2007.
the state authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. in other cases, the eviction proceedings are still pending or were discontinued. the applicant in this case is mariya nikolayevna pchelintseva, who was born on 15 june 1979 and lives in moscow. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 4-78 angarskaya ulitsa, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on 29 november 2006 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow granted the prosecutor’s claims in full. the court also ordered the applicant’s eviction. in october 2010 the applicant was evicted from the flat. on 24 february 2010 the koptevskiy district court of moscow granted a claim for damages lodged by the applicant against the real estate agency which had represented her in the flat purchase. on 14 march 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 30 november 2010 on appeal. v. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on 8 may 2003 k. sold the flat to the first applicant. on an unspecified date the housing department brought a civil action against the applicants. the court conceded that the first applicant was a bona fide purchaser of the flat. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 13-2-113 belomorskaya ulitsa, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. on 4 december 2007 the city housing authorities transferred ownership of the flat to yo. on 13 october 2010 the koptevskiy district court of moscow found yo. on 14 february 2012 the golovinskiy district court of moscow granted the claims against the applicant. however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the city of moscow, as the previous owner of the flat. on 24 october 2014 the city authorities entered into a social tenancy agreement with the first and fourth applicants.
the applicants, mr vladimir karapetyan (the first applicant), ms martha ayvazyan (the second applicant), mr araqel semirjyan (the third applicant) and ms karine afrikyan (the fourth applicant), are armenian nationals who were born in 1969, 1967, 1973 and 1954 respectively and live in yerevan. on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia. the main contenders were the then prime minister, serzh sargsyan, and the opposition candidate, levon ter-petrosyan. considering the preservation of stability in the country important and public accord necessary, we appeal to our compatriots and especially the representatives of all the structures in the country responsible for maintaining public order and peace to avoid the temptation of resolving problems by use of force. we appeal to all television companies in armenia, and especially to armenian public television, to ensure impartial and comprehensive coverage and to provide live airtime to representatives of all the powers who have a constructive position in overcoming the current inner-political crisis. we appeal to all our colleagues working both in armenia or abroad to join our statement.” this statement was reported by the mass media on the same day. according to the government, the ambassadors who issued this statement were dismissed from their posts the following day and their dismissal was widely reported in the media. only by acting in conformity with the letter and spirit of the law can we create democracy and tolerance in armenia and earn the country a good reputation abroad.” the names of the applicants, with the indication of their office, appeared under the statement. on 25 february 2008 the minister for foreign affairs of armenia adopted decrees dismissing the first, second and third applicants from office. the fourth applicant was dismissed from office by a similar decree on 3 march 2008. on an unspecified date in march 2008, the applicants instituted administrative proceedings challenging their dismissal and seeking to be reinstated in their work. on 10 april 2008 the ministry of foreign affairs, as a respondent, lodged a response with the administrative court (հհ վարչական դատարան), claiming that the applicants, by making their statement of 24 february 2008 which had then been reported by the mass media and announced during the demonstration, had engaged in political activities. furthermore, the applicants had made use of their official capacity since they indicated their official titles in the statement. on 29 may 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding that their dismissal from work was lawful since the applicants, by making the impugned statement, in essence had engaged in political activity. furthermore, that statement, as well as that of the ambassadors, had been read aloud during the demonstration organised by a political force and had received a political assessment. besides, the applicants had not been dismissed on the ground of their political opinion, but because in disseminating that opinion they had made use of their official status, which was prohibited by law. besides, they claimed that they had been discriminated against on grounds of political opinion, in violation of article 14, since those diplomats or state officials who had expressed publicly their support for the pro-governmental candidate had never faced any sanctions: the true reason for their dismissal was their critical opinion of government actions in the sphere of human rights and democratisation. they also claimed that their dismissal had been based on an erroneous interpretation of sections 40, subsection 1, point (j) and 44, subsection 1, point (c), of the diplomatic service act since they had not made use of their official capacity or work facilities when making the impugned statement.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in moscow. r. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. applied to a notary seeking recognition as r.’s heir. on 2 june 2000 the notary granted the request and issued a certificate confirming, inter alia, that yar. on an unspecified date the city registration committee registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed, confirming the applicant’s title to the flat. the applicant moved in and resided in the flat. after the birth of her daughter in 2004, she resided there with her daughter. on 6 june 2001 the taganskiy district court of moscow found yar. the judgment became final on 25 july 2001. on 5 march 2002 the prosecutor brought a civil claim on behalf of the department for housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) seeking (1) the annulment of r.’s will and of the applicant’s title to the flat; (2) the applicant’s eviction; (3) restitution of the flat to the city of moscow; and (4) annulment of the purchase agreement between yar. and the applicant, and the reimbursement by yar. of the amount the applicant had paid for the flat. in the new set of proceedings the applicant brought a counterclaim against the city of moscow, seeking to be recognised as a bona fide purchaser of the flat. on 14 november 2005 the district court invalidated r.’s will and yar. on 24 january 2006 the city court upheld the judgment of 14 november 2005 on appeal. on 23 march 2006 the district bailiff’s service instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 14 november 2005. on 2 april 2008 the applicant and her daughter were evicted from the flat. according to the applicant, they had to move in with her parents and her brother and his family. according to the government, on 9 april 2010 the flat was reassigned to sh., who had been on the social housing waiting list for twenty-five years.
the applicant, who was born in 1952, is a farmer and the head of a farming company, a. he lives in borzna. on 17 and 21 march 2001 the applicant, interviewed in connection with the inquiry into the case, informed the police that in the autumn of 2000 he had received twenty concrete slabs from k. in settlement of a debt to d., of which he was a shareholder. d.’s former director had been aware of that fact. the transaction had not been finalised on the books as there had been disagreements between the parties over the price of the slabs and on various procedural issues. on 3 may 2001 the borznyanskiy district prosecutor (the “district prosecutor”) instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant on suspicion of fraudulently appropriating slabs that he had received on d.’s behalf. on 6 june 2001 a police investigator called the applicant in for questioning as a witness in connection with the case, but rejected his request to be assisted by a lawyer during the questioning. in the course of the questioning the applicant again admitted to receiving the slabs and using them on his farm. on an unspecified date the applicant presented the authorities with an agreement dated 14 april 2001 and signed by the directors of k., d. and himself. in the course of the trial, the district court questioned the applicant and numerous other individuals, including the directors and accountants of d. and k., and examined various documents. during the trial, the applicant, represented by a lawyer of his own choice, reiterated that he had had no fraudulent intent in taking possession of the slabs and that the three parties had decided on all the details of the transaction in april 2001 (that is, before the criminal proceedings had been instituted against him). on 13 august 2003 the district court found the applicant guilty of the charges. it found that although the case had eventually been settled, there was sufficient evidence that the applicant’s initial intent had been fraudulent. that ... the three-party agreement had been concluded ... before the initiation of the criminal case, and that the managers of the three entities had agreed on the price and procedure for the transfer of the concrete slabs, the court cannot accept them, as they contradict the case file materials and the evidence examined in court. at the end of the pre-trial investigation. 6 of august 2001 the slabs transferred were valued at uah 2,000 and [k.’s] debt to d. as of 1 september 2001 remained at uah 13,517. contained on pages 65 and 67 of volume 1 of the case, dated june 2001”. the district court then granted the applicant an amnesty and released him from any punishment. it appears from the case-file materials that on an unspecified date the applicant filed an appeal against his conviction, which was accepted for examination. no copy of this appeal has been provided to the court. on the same date the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal, finding that the lower courts had correctly assessed the facts and applied the law.
the applicants in this case are natalya sergeyevna ponyayeva, who was born on 7 july 1978, and her two daughters, svetlana aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 18 march 2006, and anastasiya aleksandrovna oleneva, born on 11 july 2000. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 83-3-4 ulitsa svobody, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. was tried for having made a fake terror threat. he was relieved from criminal liability and committed to a psychiatric institution for treatment. on 9 march 2004 the department of housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) transferred the title to the flat to ol. the privatisation agreement on behalf of ol. on 1 april 2004 b. and k. bought the flat from ol. on 13 april 2004 the registration service registered the transaction and issued the relevant deed confirming b. and k.’s title to the flat. on 12 january 2005 the tushinskiy district court of moscow granted a claim lodged by b. against ol. on 10 march 2006 b. and k. sold the flat to the first applicant. on 31 january 2006 the prosecutor’s office received a complaint from n., an acquaintance of ol., in which she alleged that the latter had been fraudulently deprived of the flat. on 14 march 2006 the district department of the interior opened a criminal investigation into the matter. according to the government, the investigation is pending to date. however, it ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner, in this case the city of moscow. in this connection, the court reasoned that ol. ’s rights could be adequately protected only by means of restoring the city of moscow’s ownership in respect of the flat. ’s right to reside in the flat and ordered the applicants’ eviction. on 6 april 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 2 july 2010, in substance, on appeal.
both applicants were born in 1943 and live in vladivostok. in late 2003 during a campaign for elections to the national parliament, the state duma, the newspaper published a number of satirical and parodic articles on the course of the campaign in the primorskiy region. masyanya had had a particularly fierce fight with a certain vasilinka, the director of an escort agency called contact or image! ( агентство интимных услуг контакт или имидж!). the article stated that vasilinka had refused to make any comments. sporadically, during elections, i run the contact or image escort agency in coordination with superior organisations. this is, so to say, a governmental order, which, i think, is also supported by the president. the article was followed by a list of candidates and vasilinka’s comments on them, using slang words and expressions commonly used in the criminal underworld. some candidates were described in more positive terms than others. he pointed out, in particular, that there was no doubt that the article had referred to him as it had stated that the character vasilinka, “was a lawyer herself and had extensive working experience as a prosecutor”. he also complained that the picture accompanying the article had been put together in an indecent manner, in breach of the established rules of behaviour and public morals. the claimant’s representative has highlighted the insulting nature of the information published in the newspaper ... pointing out that the claimant is a public figure and often takes part in tv programmes; his photograph has been published on numerous occasions in the media, and [mr v.’s] face is therefore well known to people in the primorskiy region. at the hearing the applicants had contested the guilty verdict. the first applicant stated that the article had been misinterpreted and that it had in fact concerned violations committed by law-enforcement agencies during the election campaign. 47 of arsenyevskiye vesti for 20-26 november 2003 they had in the column called “nadezhda alisimchik’s hummock of view” published an article entitled “candidates must be known from the inside!”, in the district court’s opinion, “the text of the article and the photographic collage [were] of an insulting nature, ascribe[d] negative characteristics, expressed in an indecent manner, to mr v.’s personality and damage[d] the honour and dignity of mr v., the prosecutor of the primorskiy region, as a private individual and as an official”. on 5 april 2005 the first applicant informed the bailiff that she was unable to pay the fine in one amount owing to a lack of funds. she requested that she be authorised to pay by instalments over six months. it appears that her request was refused and the first applicant had to borrow a part of the fine from the bank. she paid in instalments by deductions from her wages until 28 february 2006.
the applicant was born in 1977, and lived until his arrest in the town of krasnyy sulin, rostov region. on 27 march 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having been involved in drug trafficking. the two defendants were to stand trial together before the town court. on 6 september 2007 the medical authorities informed the town court that the applicant’s state of health did not allow him to attend court hearings. on the same day the proceedings were stayed until his recovery. the town court continued regularly extending the applicant’s detention, citing the gravity of the charges and the risks of his absconding or reoffending. on 25 september 2008 the town court found the applicant guilty of two counts of the production and attempted sale of opium and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. in the course of the new round of proceedings the town court, on a number of occasions, authorised the applicant’s continued detention. the extension orders were formulated in the same standard manner. the hearings were to be held on the hospital premises. he was treated in the rostov regional state tuberculosis hospital. the condition was further complicated by pleurisy. while a report by the detention authorities in april 2010 stated that he had been given the treatment in full, the applicant’s medical file did not contain any information confirming that he had complied with the course of drug treatment. the applicant was regularly examined by doctors, underwent various medical tests and received treatment for tuberculosis. on 9 january 2008 a drug susceptibility test was performed. several days later his drug treatment was amended and the illness was brought under control. according to a medical report of 28 april 2010 submitted by the government, three days later the applicant’s health worsened and it was no longer possible to perform the prescribed operation. on 30 january 2009 he consulted a psychologist and a psychiatrist on this matter. on 3 december 2009 and 12 february 2010 the doctors confirmed that the applicant could not undergo the prescribed pulmonary surgery due to the continuing deterioration in his health. on 29 october 2010 a medical panel concluded that the applicant’s condition warranted his early release from detention.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lived in rostov-on-don prior to his arrest. on 30 march 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. by judgment of 16 may 2006, the orlovskiy district court of the rostov region found him guilty and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. on 18 july 2006 the rostov regional court upheld the conviction. the applicant and his counsel lodged an application for supervisory review of the conviction. on 12 april 2007 the presidium of the regional court, upon hearing the prosecutor, counsel for the applicant and for the injured party, quashed the conviction for formal defects and ordered a re-trial. the presidium directed that the applicant should be held in custody, without citing grounds for the custodial measure or setting a time-limit for its application. on 26 june 2007 the district court held a preliminary hearing and fixed the trial date for 3 july. by the same decision, the court determined that the applicant should remain in custody because he was charged with a particularly serious offence and could pervert the course of justice if released. the applicant and his counsel filed an appeal against the extension order. it annulled the detention order on the ground that the district court had failed to set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention, in breach of the requirements of the code of criminal procedure. it did not take any decision regarding the applicant’s further detention and referred the issue to the district court for a new examination. on 8 october 2007 the regional court rejected in a summary fashion the appeal against the extension order. on 15 october 2007 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 december 2007, referring to the gravity of the charges and the flight risk. on 11 december 2007 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 13 december 2007 the district court examined the applicant’s request for release. noting that the trial was approaching the final stage, that the witnesses had been heard, and that the applicant had family and dependent children, the court held that the applicant could be released on bail. the applicant was released the following day. on 5 february 2008 the regional court quashed the bail decision, holding that the district court had not taken proper account of the gravity of the charges. on 3 march 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in the leningrad region. on 25 february 2009 an investigator charged the applicant with kidnapping in absentia and put his name of the international list of fugitives from justice. on the same day the investigator asked the vasileostrovskiy district court in st petersburg to detain the applicant on remand. on 2 march 2009 the district court granted the investigator’s application for a detention order, referring to the gravity of the charges against the applicant. on 22 july 2009 the applicant was apprehended in the vologda region and transferred to a remand prison in st petersburg. on 30 july 2009 the applicant was interviewed and received a copy of the charge sheet. he also submitted an appeal against the detention order of 2 march. on 1 september 2009 the st petersburg city court heard the appeal and set aside the detention order, finding that the failure to follow the legal procedure for putting the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice amounted to a “fundamental breach” of the rules of criminal procedure. it ordered a new examination of the detention matter but did not specify whether or not the applicant should remain in custody. as it happened, the applicant was not released. on 18 september 2009 the district court refused the investigator’s request for a detention order. it held, firstly, that the gravity of the charges was not a sufficient reason for detaining the applicant and, secondly, that the procedure for putting his name on the list of fugitives from justice had not been followed. the applicant was released in the courtroom. on 21 october 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty and gave him a custodial sentence conditional on four years’ probation.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in moscow. on 11 january 1999 the parish of the russian orthodox church of the dormition of the theotokos (the “parish”) brought a civil claim against the applicant and her family claiming title to the land plot de facto used by the latter. in may 1999 the applicant brought a counterclaim seeking annulment of the parish’s title to the land plot. on 23 november 1999 the butyrskiy district court of moscow granted the parish’s claim and dismissed the counterclaim lodged by the applicant. on 18 february 2000 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 23 november 1999 on appeal. in july 2000 the city prosecutor’s office, upon the applicant’s request, asked for the supervisory review of the above judgments. on 24 august 2000 the presidium of the moscow city court quashed the judgments of 23 november 1999 and 18 february 2000 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. it appears that both parties amended their claims in part for several times. the applicant eventually sought recognition of her property title to the land plot in question. on 4 may 2005 the district court granted the applicant’s claims in full. on 11 august 2005 the city court upheld the judgment of 4 may 2005 on appeal. it appears the judgment of 4 may 2005 was not enforced. on 25 december 2005 the parish asked for the supervisory review of the judgments in the applicant’s favour. on 13 july 2006 the presidium of the city court quashed the judgments of 4 may and 11 august 2005 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 31 january 2007 the proceedings discontinued due to the absence of the parties.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in rudinská. on 17 december 2008 the applicant lodged a civil action with the žilina district court (file no. 8 c 240/2008) seeking an order for the defendant (a municipality) to enter into a contract with her concerning the transfer of a flat, in which she resided. the district court scheduled two hearings for 8 june and 8 july 2009; it ruled on the merits of the action and granted the action on the latter date. the applicant lodged an appeal; the judgment was quashed by a court of appeal on 8 april 2010 and the matter was remitted on 4 june 2010 to the district court. the applicant lodged a complaint under article 127 of the constitution with the constitutional court contesting the length of the proceedings in so far as those had been held before the district court. on 11 october 2012 the constitutional court (file no. ús 423/2012) rejected her complaint on the ground that, prior to lodging her constitutional complaint, the applicant had failed to exhaust ordinary remedies, in particular lodging a complaint with the president of the district court under the courts act (law no. the constitutional court noted that the court of appeal had transferred the case file to the district court on 4 june 2010 and that the applicant had lodged her constitutional complaint on 27 september 2012. it found that, within that period, the district court had failed actively to proceed with the matter for one year and a half. the constitutional court observed that the court’s previous case-law – such as ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no. 30189/07, 12 june 2012), which concerned a delay of more than six years – dealt with unjustified delays imputable to the courts that were substantially longer than those in the present case (one year and a half). the constitutional court considered that, because the unjustified delays in the present case had been shorter (compared to those in respect of ištván and ištvánová and other similar cases), it was justified in requiring – before turning for protection to the constitutional court – that the applicant lodge a complaint with the president of the district court with a view to accelerating her proceedings. following the constitutional court’s decision, the district court scheduled a hearing for 9 september 2015. at the time of communication of the application the proceedings were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in vienna. he had escaped from the premises and died after jumping in front of a subway train. subsequently, in august 2010 the applicant brought a civil action in the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen) under the official liability act (amtshaftungsgesetz) against the city of vienna (stadt wien) as the authority responsible for the hospital, seeking compensation of 20,000 euros (eur) plus interest in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. ’s mental state, diagnosed him with paranoid schizophrenia. ’s delusional behaviour, there was a risk that he would harm himself or others. the fact that her son had been able to escape from the hospital premises led the applicant to conclude that the hospital staff had acted negligently in the performance of their duties. furthermore, such restriction should have included a degree of supervision by the hospital staff. ’s involuntary placement in the psychiatric institution on 19 march 2010 had been necessary as he had not been aware of his mental illness and had refused to be treated. on 25 march 2010 he had left the acute station without permission and went to his parents’ place. when the police and the ambulance brought him back to the hospital, he had had to be sedated intravenously because of the highly psychotic state he was in. through occupational therapy and recreational walks in the hospital grounds, which − on the basis of a well-documented medical order − he had been allowed to take on his own as of 21 april 2010. this medical order had taken into account the fact that m.k. moreover, he had been made aware that he was not allowed to leave the hospital premises and had to notify the staff before going out for a walk and again upon his return. at approximately 9pm the police informed the hospital that m.k. in the present case, by 12 may 2010 restriction of the physical movement of the applicant’s son (known as “fixation”), and/or the spatial restriction of his movement to the confines of a psychiatric bed, or his permanent supervision, were no longer medically indicated, nor would such measures have been reasonable or adequate. still posed a threat to himself and others, in particular because he still suffered from the delusional idea that he was a different person and did not recognise his parents as his own. in any event the hospital should have made sure that he was not able to leave the hospital grounds, even if therapeutic walks were medically indicated and permissible in the circumstances. there was no effective supervision of his walks or their duration. according to the expert opinion by dr p of 25 may 2012, the continuation of m.k. on 18 july 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, upholding the legal and factual findings of the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lived in budapest. having been a judge since 1 january 1978 and a member of the supreme court since 1 march 1994, on 15 november 2009 he was appointed vice-president for a six-year term by the president of the republic, after being proposed for the post by the president of the supreme court. the mandate of the president of the supreme court was prematurely terminated, upon the entry into force of the fundamental law on 1 january 2012, in reaction to his criticisms and publicly expressed views regarding proposed judicial reforms (see baka v. hungary [gc], no. in connection with these events, a proposal for the termination of the applicant’s mandate as vice-president was submitted to parliament on 23 november 2011, and was adopted on 28 november 2011 in the form of section 185 of act no. clxi of 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts (“the aoac”) (see baka, cited above, § 30). accordingly, as of 1 january 2012, the applicant was removed from his position as vice-president, three years and ten months before the scheduled expiry of his mandate. he remained in office as president of one of the civil law division benches of the kúria (the historical appellation by which the supreme court was renamed in 2012). on 7 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court challenging the termination of his position. ab, adopted by eight votes to seven, the constitutional court rejected the constitutional complaint. it noted that the kúria’s tasks and competences had been broadened, in particular with regard to the supervision of the legality of municipal council regulations (for the relevant parts of the constitutional court’s judgment see baka, cited above, § 55). the position of the vice-president within the organisation of the supreme judicial instance had not changed. under the act lxvi of 1997 on the organisation and administration of the courts, the vice-president was already entitled to act in the stead of the president of the supreme court only with regard to managerial tasks at the supreme court, but not with regard to his or her functions as president of the national council of justice (see baka, cited above, § 56). the dissenting judges concluded that the premature termination of the applicant’s term of office had not been sufficiently justified by the reorganisation of the judicial system; and that it had weakened the guarantees in respect of the separation of powers, had been contrary to the prohibition on retroactive legislation, and had breached the principle of the rule of law and the right to a remedy. on 6 july 2012, as a consequence of the lowering of the judges’ mandatory retirement age pursuant to section 90 (ha) of act no. clxii of 2011 on the legal status and remuneration of judges (“the alsrj”) (see baka, cited above, § 52), the president of the republic released the applicant from his duties as a judge with effect from 31 december 2012. 17) ab of 16 july 2012, the constitutional court declared unconstitutional and consequently annulled the provisions on the compulsory retirement age of judges (see baka, cited above, § 53). on the basis of that judgment, the budapest labour court found, in a first-instance judgment of 21 march 2013, that the termination of the applicant’s judicial service had been unlawful and reinstated him – without, however, ordering his reinstatement in his previous position as president of one of the civil law division benches of the kúria. following the constitutional court’s judgment of 16 july 2012, parliament adopted a modified scheme governing the reduction of judges’ compulsory retirement age and provided different options for those who had already been affected by the unconstitutional legislation (see act no. xx of 2013 referred to in baka, cited above, § 54). the applicant opted not to be reinstated and received lump-sum compensation for the termination of post as a judge.
he is currently serving a sentence in correctional colony no. it was further extended at the investigative authorities’ requests on a number of occasions given the seriousness of the charges, negative references about the applicant’s character and the fact that the applicant did not have permanent residence or a job. the date the injuries were sustained could not be determined. they did, however, challenge the admissibility of the second report in view of the fact that they had only been notified of it afterwards. the defence repeatedly asked the trial court to hear the three witnesses who had allegedly seen the fight. the trial court, convinced by the prosecution witnesses that the three individuals had not been present during the attack, dismissed the applicant’s request. on 8 august 2008 he was convicted of unintentional killing and sentenced to eight and a half years’ imprisonment. the case was remitted for fresh examination. it neither verified whether the defence had been duly summoned nor looked at the reasons for their absence or reflected upon the need to obtain their attendance. on 8 april 2009 the regional court held a hearing. the trial court again noted the difficulties in finding one of the witnesses in the absence of any relevant information about her identity. the applicant’s counsel stayed, but did not call into question the two reports or other expert evidence. the prison doctor examined him on 29 september 2008, diagnosed him with mitral valve prolapse and ordered that he be transferred to a prison hospital “in due course”. on 23 december 2008 the applicant underwent an echocardiogram, which revealed symptoms of supraventricular tachycardia. his medical file does not contain any information on whether the detention authorities complied with the prescription. on 20 november 2009 a panel of psychiatrists examined the applicant and found that he suffered from organic personality disorder and vegetative nervous system disorder in the form of somatophrenia. after each visit a course of drugs was prescribed. shortly after his return to the correctional colony he was prescribed various medicines to treat his conditions. his general medical condition remained satisfactory. on 6 september 2012 the deputy head of the prison hospital examined the applicant and noted that the applicant was absolutely convinced that he was in a serious state of ill health.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lived, prior to his arrest, in olekminsk, sakha (yakutia) republic. on 23 december 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of murder. on 25 december 2008 the olekminskiy district court of the sakha (yakutia) republic remanded the applicant in custody. on 21 february, 19 march, 18 may, 18 june, 15 august, and 12 september 2009 the court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention and held that despite the fact that he had permanent residence, job and family, he should remain in detention as the investigation was still pending, he could threaten witnesses or re-offend. on 18 june 2009 the judge stated in his detention order as follows:“... the circumstances of the case have not changed. [ the applicant] ... committed the crime under the influence of alcohol ..., he concealed that he had committed the crime ...” 9. on 27 november 2009 the court replaced the pre-trial detention with a house arrest. on 10 june 2010 the olekminskiy district court convicted the applicant of murder and sentenced him to 8 years’ imprisonment. on 10 august 2010 the supreme court of russia upheld his conviction on appeal.
the applicants were prosecuted in russia for crimes. they were arrested and detained while the crimes were investigated and pending trial. their detention was ordered and extended by the courts. the detention orders were essentially based on the gravity of the charges, the primary grounds being the risk of the applicants’ absconding and interfering with the course of justice. the detention and extension orders used stereotypical formulae, without addressing specific facts or considering alternative preventive measures. the first applicant was born on 20 august 1983 and lived, prior to his arrest, in yekaterinburg, sverdlovsk region. the applicant was arrested on 30 march 2005 on suspicion of fraud and placed in detention. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 19 april and 14 july 2006 his pre-trial detention was extended. his appeals against these detention orders were considered on 23 july and 3 november 2006 respectively. the applicant and his lawyer did not attend the hearing on 19 april 2006. on 23 october 2006 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the second applicant was born on 2 november 1972 and lived, prior to his arrest, in vorkuta, komi republic. the applicant was arrested on 14 january 2008. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 5 june and 2 september 2009 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended. his appeals against these detention orders were examined on 24 july and 30 october 2009. the applicant and his lawyer were not present at the hearings on 24 july, 2 september and 30 october 2009. on 6 november 2009 the vorkuta town court of the komi republic convicted him of drug dealing and sentenced him to fourteen years and nine months’ imprisonment and a fine. having regard to the similarity of the main issues under the convention in the above cases, the court decides to join the applications and examine them in a single judgment.
the applicants are close relatives of persons who disappeared as a result of a large-scale sweeping operation conducted by the russian federal military forces in mesker-yurt between 21 may and 11 june 2002. 67322/099 january 2014, concerning the abduction and subsequent disappearance of mr apti dombayev on 4 november 2002; kosumova and others v. russia, no. the servicemen, who spoke russian without an accent, checked the residents’ identity documents. on 4 june 2002 the body of mr adam temersultanov, who had been detained during the special operation, was thrown from a military uaz vehicle on the outskirts of the village. on an unspecified date between 9 and 17 june 2002 the military unit conducting the special operation in mesker-yurt left the place where they had been stationed as well as the temporary filtration camp in the vicinity of the village. from the documents submitted by the parties it transpires that along with the applicants’ relatives, a number of other residents of mesker-yurt, including mr r. makhtykhanov, mr m. magomedov and mr i. gachayev, were abducted during the special operation. on 21 may 2002 a group of armed servicemen abducted him from his house at 157 lenina street. mr aslan israilov was born in 1981 and his brother, mr anzor israilov, was born in 1984. (d)  abduction of mr ibragim askhabov 23. in the documents submitted the place of the abduction was also referred to as 63 tereshkova street. (l)  abduction of mr adam temersultanov and subsequent discovery of his body 33. in response to the court’s request for a copy of the contents of the criminal cases opened in connection with the abductions, the government did not furnish any documents but provided an information statement concerning the investigation of joint criminal case no. the information submitted by the parties concerning the investigation into the abduction can be summarised as follows. 59166 in respect of the abduction of the relative of the applicants in magomedova and others (application no. the applicants were not informed thereof. it is unclear whether any steps were taken to verify the information. for instance, from a copy of the decision of the kizilyurt town court of 5 april 2010 declaring mr magomedrasul magomedov dead, it transpires that on unspecified dates in march 2003, april 2005, may 2006, december 2009 and march 2010 the applicants requested assistance in searching for him and complained to the supervisory prosecutors of the lack of progress in the investigation. in reply, they were informed that proceedings were under way and that the necessary measures were being taken. on 16 december 2011 the investigation of the criminal case was suspended again for failure to identify the perpetrators. it was subsequently suspended and resumed again on several more occasions.
the applicants were born in 1996 and 1995 respectively. although no interpreter was present the applicant was helped by some other irregular immigrants who had arrived with him and who could speak english. he was then presented with two documents in english, one containing a return decision and the other a removal order. the return decision also informed the first applicant that his stay was being terminated and of the possibility to apply for a period of voluntary departure. it informed him that he would remain in custody until removal was affected and that an entry ban would be issued against him. according to the government, in practice the immigration police inform the migrants verbally in english about their right to appeal, and the migrants translate for each other. according to the government the first applicant did not request a booklet in another language. he was originally detained in warehouse 2 at safi barracks, and in 2013 was moved to block b. 11. mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar entered malta in an irregular manner by boat on 31 august 2012. upon arrival, he was registered by the immigration police and given an identification number (12w-062). he informed them that he was born in 1995 and therefore was seventeen years old. he was assisted in submitting the preliminary questionnaire (pq), thereby registering his wish to apply for asylum under article 8 of the refugees act, chapter 420 of the laws of malta (see relevant domestic law, below). a few days following mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar’s arrival he was called for an information session provided by the staff of the office of the refugee commissioner. he was assisted in submitting the pq, thereby registering his wish to apply for asylum. within a few weeks of his arrival, three people from awas interviewed him. the first applicant claimed that, some weeks later, in or around october 2012, he was informed verbally by awas staff that he was found to be a minor and that he would be released shortly. moreover, the centre was overcrowded and lacked protection from abuse and victimisation. fights often broke out between men of different origins, nationalities or tribes, and he also referred to an episode where he had been beaten up by a fellow detainee. mr cabdulaahi aweys abubakar also noted that in the first two weeks of his detention he had had stomach pains, but no doctor was available, nor was an ambulance called. following the acceptance of that request on 7 may 2014 the maltese authorities were informed by the german authorities that return was suspended pending proceedings in germany.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in roslavl, the smolensk region. on 15 june 2003 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of unintentional manslaughter. on 30 september 2003 he was committed to stand trial before the leninskiy district court of smolensk. on 10 october 2003 the district court fixed the first trial hearing and ordered that the applicant should remain in custody. on 26 april 2004 the leninskiy district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. the judgment became final on 10 july 2004 when the smolensk regional court upheld it on appeal. in february 2005 the applicant lodged an action with the leninskiy district court, arguing that his detention from 2 to 26 april 2004 had been unlawful as there had been no legal order authorizing his detention during that period. he sought compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 23 september 2005 the leninskiy district court, in the presence of a defendant’s representative, dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that the applicant’s conviction precluded him from claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damages. its operative part reads as follows:“given that mr artemenko was found guilty of the crime in relation to which he had been detained since 17 june 2003, he did not acquire the right to exoneration and to compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage. therefore, there exist no grounds for satisfying mr artemenko’s claim for compensation in respect of his unlawful detention pending trial.” the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, that the district court had refused to secure his attendance and had not provided him with copies of materials presented by the defendants. he also maintained his initial claim for compensation. on 29 november 2005 the smolensk regional court upheld the judgment of 23 september 2005 in the applicant’s absence.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kremenchuk. on the same date the poltava regional police instituted criminal proceedings into the suspected murder. subsequently retracted his confession, denying any involvement with the crime and complaining that the police had subjected him to ill-treatment. on an unspecified date the criminal proceedings against o.t. complained to the chief of the local police department that the investigation into the case had been ineffective. on 12 september 2007 the acting chief of the poltava regional police informed v.k. that he had detected no irregularities in the manner in which the investigation had been conducted and that ‒ according to the applicable law ‒ aggrieved parties were not entitled to consult case files until completion of the pre-trial investigation, that is to say, until the likely perpetrator has been identified and committed for trial. on 10 october 2007 the investigation was suspended as no leads had been identified. her sister’s husband, of having murdered her and referred to numerous delays in carrying out the investigative activities, which ‒ in her view ‒ had resulted in the loss of important evidence. who had extensive expertise in investigating homicide and other violent crimes. was arrested and confessed to having killed the applicant’s daughter because she had refused to give him a divorce. demonstrated how he had committed the murder. retracted his confession, claiming it had been given under duress from the police. on 15 august 2008 the proceedings in respect of r.p. were discontinued in the light of irreconcilable discrepancies between his retracted confessional statements and other evidence on file. as there were no further leads pointing to a potential perpetrator, the proceedings were suspended. the proceedings were renewed and then suspended on several further occasions, reference being made to the insufficiency of the measures taken (specifically, on 11 may 2010, 2 april and 22 october 2011). the applicant also gave several suggestions as to further potential witnesses to be questioned, the specific type of the knife which could have been used to stab his daughter, and the circle of persons who might possess such a weapon. on 2 october 2013 the deputy chief of the investigative department of the poltava police informed the applicant that no new leads had been uncovered, but his suggestions would be taken into account in further investigation. concerning investigative steps that could be taken.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is currently detained at nubarashen prison. the applicant presented himself to the police later that day, surrendered a gun and confessed to the murder. she stated that it had been the applicant, her neighbour, who, after yelling and swearing, had started to shoot at k.s. on 3 july 2009 the applicant was questioned. he denied the charges and refused to testify. and a.m., stated during their interviews that on the day of the murder they had heard gunshots and that shortly after k.m. on 14 january 2010 the applicant’s brother, v.m., the applicant did not make any statement. on 27 april 2010 the bill of indictment was finalised and the case was referred to the lori regional court for trial. by a decision of 13 may 2010 the regional court scheduled the first hearing in the applicant’s case to take place on 21 may 2010. the summons was returned to the regional court. on 29 june 2010 the police sent a letter to the regional court informing it that, inter alia, k.m. the regional court eventually examined the applicant’s case in k.m. ’s] car that night ...in the course of the investigation [the applicant] did not accept the charges against him stating that his deceased brother [v.m.] ’s] house ...at the trial [the applicant] pleaded not guilty ...the crime committed by [the applicant] is proven by the following evidence collected in the case:the statement of the victim’s legal heir, the witness s.s. ... ... the pre-trial statement of the witness k.m. ... ... the pre-trial statements of the witnesses s.m. the sole eyewitness to the incident and whose pre-trial statement had been the only evidence directly incriminating him in the offence, had not been examined in court. ’s presence was concerned and summoned her to appear at the next hearing. did not appear before the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in baku. he was also a member of the musavat party. the applicant went to the place where the demonstration would be held, intending to participate in it. the government maintained that the applicant had not been subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in police custody. and two other men, one of whom had been wearing a police uniform while the other had been in plain clothes. on 12 and 14 april 2011 the investigator questioned t.y. in the exercise yard of the ndpo temporary detention centre. as the applicant had objected to their attitude, they had beaten him severely. who had been on guard duty at the ndpo on 2 april 2011. on 20 and 22 april 2011 the investigator separately questioned two police officers, i.m., who was the neighbourhood police officer for the area where the applicant was arrested. they each claimed that the applicant had not been placed in the exercise area of the temporary detention centre and had not been beaten in police custody. had not been present at that time at the police office. however, such an injury might have been inflicted during the unlawful demonstration. in his decision, after having summarised the conclusions of the forensic report and the statements given by the applicant, t.y. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“as no appearance of a criminal act was disclosed in the material collected during the inquiry at the request of hajili mustafa mustafa oglu, who claimed that on 2 april 2011 he had sustained injury as a result of a beating by the deputy head of the ndpo, s.n., the applicant also complained that the prosecutor had failed to give any explanation as to the circumstances in which the injury had been caused. who had testified during the inquiry in support of the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment. in reply to the lawyer’s requests, the investigator in charge of the case stated at the hearing that the ndpo’s security cameras were only for surveillance purposes and did not record. on 24 january 2012 the nasimi district court dismissed the complaint, finding that the prosecutor’s decision of 25 april 2011 had been lawful and properly substantiated.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in baghramyan village. anti-fever medicine and vitamins were prescribed and he was put on a drip. according to the medical orderly, suren muradyan fell down after returning from the lavatory. stated that he was the person who had lent the watch to suren muradyan. confirmed his earlier statement, adding that he had not heard any noise coming from officer k.z. on 17 august 2002 the investigator took a statement from officer k.z. further stated that on 29 july 2002 he had again summoned suren muradyan and serviceman k.e. on 6 november 2002 the experts conducting the panel forensic medical examination produced their opinion. stated that it was he who had initially diagnosed suren muradyan as having malaria, because of the symptoms and the fact that he was serving in a malaria hotbed. on 12 september 2003 the applicant lodged a complaint with the military prosecutor’s office of armenia, claiming that the investigation was flawed and had failed to reveal those responsible for his son’s death, despite the fact that there was sufficient evidence that he had died as a result of ill‑treatment by the three officers, v.g., ’s office where the latter had started screaming at them because of the stolen watch. was questioned and stated that he had not provided the full story in his previous testimony and that during the argument between him and suren muradyan on 21 july 2002 he had grabbed the latter’s left wrist with his right hand and started shaking it briskly, during which suren muradyan’s fist had touched the left side of his abdomen in the area of the spleen. as a result of which he had lost consciousness and been taken back to the barracks by couriers. the applicant requested that these allegations be investigated. under article 375 § 2 of the new criminal code of armenia (abuse of authority or public position, accidentally resulting in grave consequences) on the ground that he had failed to provide adequate treatment to suren muradyan. in the course of additional questioning [officer v.g.] on 24 december 2004 the criminal case against officer v.g. answer: it was impossible to determine the exact intensity of the blow in the absence of relevant medical criteria, although it could be asserted that the blow had been of certain intensity. in reality, upon arriving at the military unit from stepanakert, he had once again been beaten by the officers on the night from 2 to 3 august 2002, which had caused the spleen rupture. no such request had been filed by the prosecutor, while the investigating authority had carried out a thorough, full and objective investigation by examining a number of hypotheses, none of which confirmed that suren muradyan had been ill-treated.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in sevastopol. the applicant worked at the joint-stock company sevastopolskyy morskyy zavod (“the smz”). on 30 november 1996 she retired and started working for its subsidiary company, sevmorremo. she brought several claims against her former employer, seeking salary arrears and compensation for late payment of salary. on 6 june 1997 the commission awarded her 462.36 hryvnias (uah) in salary arrears (approximately 100 euros (eur) at the material time). on 17 june 1997 it issued a certificate in respect of that decision. on 19 may 1998 the applicant brought a claim in the nakhimovskyy court, seeking compensation for the smz’s failure to pay her salary arrears in a timely manner. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. on 4 september 1998 the nakhimovskyy district bailiffs’ service instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment, but it remained unenforced. on 27 april 2001 the presidium allowed the request, quashed the judgment and remitted the case for fresh consideration. it held that the first-instance court had failed to provide sufficient reasons for its judgment of 25 august 1998. on an unspecified date the enforcement proceedings in respect of that judgment were discontinued. on 19 may 1999 the court rejected the applicant’s claim. it held that that claim had already been determined in its judgment of 25 august 1998. the applicant appealed in cassation, contending that her claim concerned new circumstances, in particular the new period of delay in payment of her salary arrears. on 14 june 2001 the applicant requested the nakhimovskyy court to examine her claims of 19 may 1998 and 1 march 2001 jointly. on 23 july 2001 the court allowed her request. on 30 august 2001 the court, following a request from the applicant, ordered an expert examination in the case and suspended the proceedings. on 4 july 2002 the expert’s report was submitted to the court and the proceedings were resumed. on 28 january 2004 the court found against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s father owned a house with a yard and a garage in sofia. pursuant to a decision of the mayor issued on 27 july 1978, the property was expropriated for the purposes of constructing a residential building. the order, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the applicant’s father was to be compensated with a two-room flat and a garage in a building which the municipality planned to construct. in a supplementary decision of 19 february 1979, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location, size and other details in respect of the flat to be provided by way of compensation. as no mention was made of a garage, the applicant’s father applied for judicial review of that decision. in a final judgment of 21 june 1979 the sofia city court found in his favour and referred the case back to the administrative authorities with instructions to specify the exact garage to be provided as compensation. in 1982 the flat in question was constructed and handed over to the applicant’s father. after 1992 the applicant’s father filed numerous requests with the municipal authorities asking them to specify the exact garage to be given to him. by a letter of 12 january 2008 the chief architect of sofia informed him that no buildings with garages earmarked for the purpose of compensation were being constructed at the moment. in 2008 the applicant’s father brought an action for damages under the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (закон за отговорността на държавата и общините за вреди) for unlawful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to fulfill its obligations to build and provide him with a garage. the action was dismissed in a final judgment of 21 june 2011 of the supreme administrative court, on the grounds that no unlawful failure to act on the part of the authorities had been established. in the meantime, on 7 april 2008 the applicant’s father passed away.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. the fourth applicant was a member of that committee and the fifth applicant was a member of its board. it appears that the period from 2011 to 2013 was marked by an increase in political sensitivity in the country generated, inter alia, by the presidential elections, which took place in october 2013. the second and fourth applicants were also arrested during a demonstration on 11 march 2013. according to the applicants, they had also intended to participate in upcoming protests planned by milli shura (including a protest scheduled for 9 march 2014, which was eventually cancelled). in addition, the fourth applicant was an organiser of a protest scheduled for 23 february 2014. all the applicants were arrested in either february or march 2014. the third applicant also submitted that he had been requested to show his identity document and that he had obeyed that request too. he went to the police station together with his father. the police demanded that the second applicant follow them to a police office because “the chief of police wanted to see him”. later the police accessed his facebook account through that computer and put a notice on it that the demonstration planned for 23 february 2014 had been cancelled. they were also not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. on various dates the applicants were brought before the respective first-instance courts, which adopted their decisions on the merits on the same dates (see appendix). according to all the applicants, they were not given an opportunity to appoint lawyers of their own choosing. state-funded lawyers were appointed to assist them. according to the documents in the respective case files, the first, third, fifth and sixth applicants refused the assistance of state-funded lawyers and decided to defend themselves in person. briefly asked the court to consider the young age of the applicant. during the hearings with regard to the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants only the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicants and/or issued administrative offence reports on them were questioned as witnesses. in the case of the sixth applicant the court did not question any witnesses. all the applicants were represented before the baku court of appeal by lawyers of their own choosing.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in iğdır. on 14 january 2005, while the applicant was serving as a conscript in the army, he fell from the roof where he was on guard. subsequently, he was treated in various civilian and military hospitals. according to a medical report dated 4 may 2005, the applicant was diagnosed as suffering from a left parietal craniotomy and was declared unfit for military service. on 8 july 2005 the applicant applied to the ministry of defence for compensation for his injury. following a tacit dismissal of the claim by the administrative authorities, the applicant initiated compensation proceedings in respect of the injuries he had sustained during his military service before the supreme military administrative court on 1 november 2005. he sought 20,000 turkish liras (try) (approximately 12,400 euros (eur)[1]) in respect of pecuniary damage and the same sum in respect of non-pecuniary damage. an expert report dated 4 october 2007 assessed the applicant’s pecuniary damage at try 58,384 (approximately eur 36,260). on 19 october 2007 the applicant asked the court to increase his initial claim via an amendment (ıslah), stating that he had only become aware of the true extent of his pecuniary damage when he had received the expert’s report. on 28 november 2007 the supreme military administrative court ruled in favour of the applicant and awarded him the full amount of his initial claim in respect of pecuniary damage, namely try 20,000. it awarded him a further try 12,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s application for an amendment, considering itself bound by the initial claim. the court stated in particular: “the purpose of an amendment is to rectify a procedural act. having regard to the judgment of the constitutional court published in the official journal of 4 november 2000, we must conclude that, in civil law, injured persons are entitled to seek additional compensation once an expert report has been issued. however, in the proceedings before the supreme military administrative court, the time-limits of one year [from the date when a claimant becomes aware of the impugned act] and sixty days from the date of referral of the administrative authorities apply. under section 46(4) of the supreme military administrative court act, the amount claimed cannot be rectified once those deadlines have passed. consequently, the applicant’s amendment claim must be rejected for being out of time ...” 11. by a judgment of 16 april 2008 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for rectification of its previous decision.
the three applicants belong to the romanian church united to rome, also known as the greek catholic or uniate church. in 1948 the greek catholic church was dissolved by decree no. 358/1948, and its assets, with the exception of parish property, were transferred to the state; an inter-departmental committee was given responsibility for determining the ultimate allocation of the parish property. the uniate church was officially recognised by legislative decree no. 126/1990 on certain measures concerning the romanian church united to rome. 126/1990 was amended by government ordinance no. under the amended decree, in the event of disagreement between the members of the clergy representing the two denominations in a joint committee, the party with an interest in bringing judicial proceedings could do so under “ordinary law” (drept comun, see the procedure referred to in paragraphs 41 and 121 below). the domestic law, in particular legislative decree no. 126/1990, that is, before the joint committee. on 12 may 2006, in application of the legislative amendments to legislative decree no. the parties met on 20 april 2007 without reaching an agreement. 358/1948 and that it had behaved as an owner, inter alia by ensuring that the church was maintained properly. by a judgment of 26 september 2008, ruling on an appeal by the applicants, the court of appeal set aside the judgment of 27 february 2008 on grounds of a procedural defect and remitted the case to the county court. by a judgment of 11 june 2010, the court of appeal allowed an appeal lodged by the orthodox parish and dismissed the applicants’ action. it noted that these statements supported the statistical data indicating that there were more orthodox than greek catholic worshippers in lupeni. 126/1990 ... a distinction is made between two situations: (a) that in which the property is in the ownership of the state ... (b) that in which the places of worship and the parishes have been taken over by the romanian orthodox church and in respect of which [the question of] restitution will be decided by a joint committee made up of representatives of the clergy of the two denominations, a committee which will take account of the wishes of the worshippers in the communities in possession of these properties. in other words, by virtue of its full jurisdiction and in order not to compromise access to justice, a court may be called upon to decide an action on the merits, even though the prior procedure did not culminate in a decision by the joint clerical committee; at the same time, however, it may not go beyond the limits imposed by the special statutory framework. returning the properties which belonged to the greek catholic church without respecting the criteria imposed by article 3 § 1 of legislative decree no. the fact that, through legislative decree no. 9/1989, the romanian church united to rome (greek catholic) was officially recognised following the repeal of decree no.
she is currently detained in forest-berkendael prison. according to her explanations, since 1983 b.m. on 25 june 2004, on the recommendation of dr m.s., recommending that he prescribe her a new antidepressant, as well as sleeping tablets and anti-anxiety medication. from september 2006 she saw him every three weeks. i can no longer manage a coffee in the morning. i have not felt well these last few days. he is coming home tomorrow evening but i can’t tell him of all my pain and distress. i imagine scenarios which are both true and realistic and i know i am capable. he will be able to help you and explain what you explained to me so kindly when you came to my house. you have always opened your door to me and my children and have been a ray of sunshine in our life, and i will thank you forever. i have decided to go a long way away with the children forever. please let my sister mireille ... and my other sister catherine ... know. ’s mobile phone – in a voice which the investigating officers later described as “trembling” and “hesitant” – telling v.g. in view of this new evidence, the president of the assize court duly instructed the panel of three psychiatrists, g., b. and m., who had already been involved at the investigation stage and had already confirmed their findings orally before the assize court, to produce a further report. in the second letter, although in terms of content she unequivocally expresses her anxiety in relation to a suicide where ‘i will take my children with me, because there is no longer any future’, in terms of meaning she is clearly asking for help, apparently foreseeing her inability to control her future actions. ... the experts presented their report during the trial, on 16 december 2008. 5th question (principal question as to social protection, concerning the accused’s current mental state, to be answered by the jury only if it has answered the 1st question in the affirmative or the 3rd question in the affirmative)is it established that the accused geneviève lhermitte, present before this court, is suffering either from a mental disorder or from a severe mental disturbance or defect making her incapable of controlling her actions?” counsel for the applicant did not raise any objections to these questions. in a judgment of 19 december 2008 it took note of the guilty verdict reached by the jury alone and sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in san gwann. the government contested the latter fact, relying on the version of events given by mr z. in 2002 (see below). the applicant alleged that pending the above‑mentioned proceedings, mr z. had started bad-mouthing the applicant to neighbours ‑ who had also suffered burglaries – stating that it had been the applicant, that is to say the electrician they all used, who had committed them. - the two affidavits of the applicant’s two brothers (f. and s.) and the oral testimony of f. (f. confirmed that he had worked everywhere in the house, including next to the safe, together with other workmen from his company and that other named individuals had had access to the house as they had also rendered services there; he also denied that he had ever spoken to w.b. ( mr z. stated that in more recent years it had been only the applicant who had attended to jobs in the house and who had come during the late hours of the night, coming promptly and not charging them, even though he usually charged for all his services, even minor ones – thus, he had been the only one in the world, and nobody else, who had the knowledge of the house as it would be at night time. mr z. testified that a few days after the robbery he had gone to buy a bulb from the applicant, who had expressed no sympathy. stated that the investigators had spoken about the applicant in june 1995 and that subsequently he had been questioned (amongst others – five people altogether) as a person with the knowhow to commit such a robbery, as well as a result of mr z.’s claim to the effect that he had mentioned the buckets of gold only to the applicant. the court noted that the only established facts were that the robber had known both the house (allowing him to move comfortably within it and find what he wanted) and mr z. (giving the robber a reason to remain silent during the robbery). on 17 march 2008, the applicant appealed against all the above decisions. in this connection one had to bear in mind that the memory of a victim of a violent robbery could suffer psychological effects which may result in inconsistencies. as to the dismissal of the applicant’s objection in relation to the claim for damages which were allowed at a later stage, the court considered that the claim was not new evidence as such and it was the only proof of the damage that had been caused. the applicant instituted constitutional redress proceedings claiming a violation of, inter alia, article 6 § 1 of the convention. it noted that the first court had assessed the evidence available and considered that the identification of the applicant had been convincingly established; the court of appeal found no reason to alter that conclusion. as to the applicant’s inability to cross-examine ms z., it noted that there had been a valid reason, namely her poor health as confirmed by her doctor, and the applicant had had the opportunity to comment on her written testimony. by a judgment of 15 october 2012 the constitutional court also rejected the applicant’s claims. thus, no prejudice had been caused to the applicant. according to the documents submitted, following the above judgments the applicant became extremely depressed and unfit for work. he was thus excused from work and began to receive a disability pension. he considered that had he continued to work, he would have earned much more. according to the government the applicant was certified as unfit for work on 1 july 2005 and retired when he was sixty-one and has since then been in receipt of a pension.
they owned rooms in a dormitory building in the municipality of samara. according to the government, the judgment has not been enforced and the applicants continue to reside in the rooms they had bought. ms vasyukhina and mr vasyukhin (application no. 45173/08) submitted that they had never moved into the rooms as they were occupied by other individuals. in 1993 a state-owned enterprise called samaraavtotrans was privatised and reorganised into a joint-stock limited liability company called stroitel. the privatisation plan was approved by the municipality and the regional property fund signed the plan on its behalf. the privatisation plan referred to a building located at no. as a result of a number of reorganisations of stroitel, the title to the building in question was transferred to the closed joint-stock company, stroitel-m. subsequently, separate rooms in the building were resold to third parties, including the applicants. the information concerning the applicants’ titles to the property can be found in the appendix below. according to the title deeds, the applicants were owners of non-residential premises. the applicants moved into the rooms and resided there. on 23 august 2002 the samara region commercial court found the samaraavtotrans privatisation plan and the agreement of 10 november 1993 – which the regional property fund and stroitel had entered into, and which partly concerned the transfer of the title to the building to stroitel – null and void. on 14 june 2005 the district court dismissed the prosecutor’s claim. on 2 august 2005 the regional court upheld the judgment of 14 june 2005 on appeal. on 18 may 2006 the presidium of the regional court quashed the judgments of 14 june and 2 august 2005 by way of supervisory review, and remitted the matter to the district court for fresh consideration. on 14-19 november 2007 the district court allowed the prosecutor’s claim in full. the applicants in the present application, mr vitaliy vasyukhin and ms darya vasyukhina, were minors at the relevant time. on an unspecified date, acting on their behalf, the applicants’ mother sued mr b. (the person who had sold the rooms to the applicants) for damages. on an unspecified date a bailiff initiated enforcement proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1969 in lebanon. on 17 november 1994 he applied for a residence permit based on his marriage to a danish national of lebanese origin. she had entered denmark as a child in 1985. his wife was granted an early retirement pension due to back problems. the applicant speaks and understands danish but he cannot read or write the language. the applicant’s wife has eighteen siblings living in denmark. it was also noted that the applicant had previous convictions. on appeal, by a judgment of 30 march 2011 the conviction was upheld in part by the high court of eastern denmark (østre landsret) and the sentence was increased to six years’ imprisonment due notably to the nature and quantity of the drugs, the extent of the drug offences committed and the applicant’s leading role. by three votes to three, with the more beneficial outcome in the applicant’s favour, the expulsion order remained suspended. the public prosecution appealed to the supreme court (højesteret) against the judgment as regards the suspended expulsion order. he had no contacts there but his mother and sister. four of the children received special education and several of the children needed extra support and supervision in their schools and institutions. these concerned eighty different foreign telephone numbers, including thirty-eight in lebanon and nine in syria. the applicant’s wife explained that she often talked to her sister-in-law in syria. the applicant’s spouse was a danish citizen. the applicant and his family spoke arabic. moreover, she had regular contact with the applicant’s sister and family in syria, and she had spent several vacations there, for instance in 2008 and 2009 as well as one and a half months in 2010 and two months in 2011. in the meantime, on 13 august 2013, the national police had submitted the applicant’s case to the danish immigration service (udlændingestyrelsen) for a decision as to whether, upon return, the applicant would risk treatment as described in section 31 of the aliens act. having found, inter alia, that the applicant would not be at risk of being subjected to the death penalty, or to torture, or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment upon return, on 11 july 2014 the danish immigration service found that the applicant could be returned to lebanon. it appears that the applicant was deported to lebanon shortly thereafter.
the applicants were born in 1990, 1989 and 1990 respectively and live in moscow. as it was open twenty-four hours a day, there were always people inside. eventually, ms p. managed to break free and run away. was subsequently apprehended by the police. killed two people and wounded several others. at the same time he had not been as enthusiastic about his new job as he had been about his previous job. on an unspecified date the third applicant was also granted victim status in the criminal proceedings. on 17 september 2009 m., an investigator from the investigative committee at the prosecutor’s office of the russian federation, addressed the minister of the interior with a recommendation on measures to be taken with a view to rectifying the circumstances that had been conducive to the crime being committed. significant limitations on his independence and permanent accountability together with a lack of satisfaction from his work had led to emotional tension. there had thus been a breach of section 19 of the police act, sections 130 and 131 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 july 2004 and section 9.7 of the order of the ministry of the interior of 14 december 1999. they had therefore been unrelated to his duties as a state official. the fact that at the relevant time he had held the position of chief of the tsaritsino branch of the moscow department of the interior and had had the rank of major did not constitute grounds for the state’s liability under article 1069 of the civil code, as it had been established that d.e. the court also dismissed the first applicant’s arguments that the state should be held liable for the damage because (i) at the time of the events d.e. in the course of his duties as a civil servant. on 23 september 2009 the nagatinskiy district court of moscow dismissed the second applicant’s claim. for a police officer and, as a result of the events, had developed feelings of fear and apprehension towards police officers. she argued that damage had been caused as a result of a police officer’s unlawful exercise of his powers. had been wearing police uniform had affected the third applicant, rendering her defence difficult. relying on articles 150, 151, 1064 § 1 and 1069 of the civil code and referring to d.e. on 16 april 2012 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal.
the applicants, ms natalya borisovna trapeznikova, ms yuliya sergeyevna trapeznikova and ms anastasiya sergeyevna antonova, are russian nationals who were born in 1969, 1985 and 2004 respectively and live in novosibirsk. 14 for smoking outside the designated area. on 22 july 2007 he complained of a headache and of feeling ill. the guards in charge of the disciplinary cells observed mr antonov at 1.06 a.m. on 23 july 2007 through a peephole in the cell door. they cut the rope and put his body on the floor. they submitted that they had not had any conflicts with him. referring to the numerous injuries on mr antonov’s body, she challenged the official version that he had committed suicide by hanging himself. on 22 august 2007 the city prosecutor p. quashed the decision of 28 july 2007 and ordered a further inquiry into the circumstances of mr antonov’s death. on 28 august 2007 deputy city prosecutor k. refused to open a criminal investigation into mr antonov’s death. who had been detained with mr antonov in cell no. he had been sitting at the table, had stood up and had then fallen down, hitting his head against the table. they had not noticed any injuries on mr antonov. on 23 september 2007 the deputy regional prosecutor a. quashed the decision of 28 august 2007 and ordered a further inquiry. the investigator also questioned the forensic medical expert ch., on 12 november 2007 the supervising prosecutor dismissed the first applicant’s complaint against the decision of 8 november 2007. refused to institute criminal proceedings. relying on the materials of the previous inquiries, the investigator confirmed the earlier finding that mr antonov had committed suicide. the prison psychiatrist, and a drug counsellor, kot. 38 and conducted an examination of cell no. the senior investigator’s decision was subjected to judicial review at two levels of jurisdiction.
the applicant was born in 1974 and is detained in the tomsk region. since 18 february 2009, save for short periods of detention in the remand prison, the applicant has been held in correctional colonies nos. the applicant submitted that during his pre-trial detention he had not been examined by a dentist and had not received any dental treatment because, as he had been informed, the remand prison neither possessed any dental equipment nor employed a dentist. the only alternative to treatment had been tooth extraction by a doctor who visited the facility once or twice a month. moreover, the colony’s dentist was habitually either on holiday or away attending training courses. the applicant produced statements written by five inmates with whom he had been detained in the same penal institutions from 2007-2014. since that time, he had undergone scaling and cleaning procedures, and extraction of teeth, but had not been prescribed any painkillers for the toothache he was suffering. during his detention the applicant lost nine teeth in total. he was unable to obtain orthodontic treatment even at his own expense. on 23 december 2014 the applicant had been examined by a visiting dentist from another correctional colony who recommended examination by a specialist dentist once released. a medical certificate issued by the applicant’s dentist on 27 june 2014 confirmed the presence of dental prostheses for eight teeth and the absence of another ten. the government submitted that the applicant had undergone medical examinations in each penal facility and had been provided with the requisite medical treatment. 2, extracts from the applicant’s medical file, lists of medicines and medical appliances available at the respective penal institutions, staff lists, and the penal institutions’ medical licences. on 30 december 2010 the dentist concluded that “the oral cavity required sanitisation”. between 3 june and 20 july 2011 he visited the dentist on seven occasions, during which he was diagnosed with gingivitis of the front teeth and dental caries, three permanent dental fillings were put in, the gingivitis was treated and the tartar build-up was removed. the cleaning procedure was performed eight months later. on 20 november 2013 the applicant was diagnosed with inflammatory degenerative periodontitis and received treatment for it. between 10 july and 7 august 2014 the applicant visited the medical unit three times and asked for dental prostheses. it was explained that such treatment could be provided at the applicant’s own expense. meanwhile the dentist confirmed the diagnosis of inflammatory degenerative periodontitis, prescribed treatment, extracted another tooth, removed a dental bridge and cleaned the tartar build-up.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in šibenik. on an unspecified date an investigation was opened in respect of the applicant and four other persons, a.b., were charged under the same indictment with participating in a fight which resulted in the death of one person. during the proceedings before the trial court a.b. the applicant denied the veracity of his evidence. upon an appeal by the split county state attorney’s office, on 5 december 2002 the supreme court quashed the judgment in respect of the applicant and dismissed the charges against the other accused on account of the statutory prescription period. the supreme court also ordered that fresh proceedings against the applicant be conducted by a trial panel composed of different judges. in the fresh proceedings a panel of two different professional judges and three different lay judges of the split county court heard evidence from a.b. in the presence of the applicant and his defence lawyer on 18 february 2004. at a hearing held on 10 july 2007 the applicant agreed that a.b. ’s statement could be read out and on the same day the split county court again acquitted the applicant. at a hearing held on 23 february 2010 a.b. gave oral evidence in the presence of the applicant and his defence counsel. in the presence of the applicant and his defence counsel. whose prior statement was read out at a hearing held on 7 june 2011 because he was in a psychiatric institution. was the only witness who said that he had seen the applicant attacking the victim. a request by the applicant for the trial panel to hear the witness in person was denied on the grounds that the witness was undergoing treatment for alcoholism in a psychiatric institution and that any absence from the institution would have a negative effect on his treatment. on 27 march 2012 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 16 june 2011. the [first-instance] court was correct in deciding to read out the statement of witness a.b. ( a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 12 july 2012.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in the village of krasnyy yar in the staropoltavskiy district of volgograd region. on 5 august 2002 a quarrel broke out between the applicant and t. on one side and the applicant’s brothers v. and p. and p.’s wife, e., on the other. the police also took statements from a. who explained that she had been with e. when the applicant and t. had come over, asked about v. and then entered v.’s home. during the journey the police officers stopped the car and assaulted him. at an unspecified time that day police officer sh. the otolaryngologist concluded that in addition to chronic otitis, the applicant had signs of traumatic otitis of the left ear. on 8 august 2002 he was discharged and sent for outpatient treatment by an otolaryngologist, a physician assessment and monitoring by a surgeon. the applicant received outpatient treatment at home. n., the paramedic who had provided the applicant with first aid on 6 august 2002 at the police station, gave the following statements as a witness: the applicant had complained of headaches, loss of hearing in the left ear, pain in the chest, stomach and left hip and shortness of breath. the decision stated that before his arrest on 5 august 2002 the applicant, who had been drunk, had committed an act of petty hooliganism against v. the applicant and v. had then physically assaulted each other. on 19 june 2006 it requested the staropoltavskiy district prosecutor to examine the applicant’s complaint concerning the investigation in the case and report back before 30 june 2006. on 21 december 2011 the volgograd regional prosecutor’s office set aside the decision of 9 march 2004 terminating the criminal proceedings as the possibility of the applicant receiving the injuries in the fight with v. had not been examined. an expert from the staropoltavskiy district unit of the volgograd regional forensic medical bureau, examined the applicant but found no injuries on him. decision of 30 april 2012 terminating the criminal proceedings against police officers s. and sh., he had then jumped on him and punched him in the head. t. had been behaving calmly, unlike the applicant. he had been complaining of chest pain and coughing painfully. one of the police officers, who had been present during the examination, had shouted that the applicant had also been hit in the ear with a spade handle. the applicant had then, while sitting on him, punched him repeatedly in the face and chest. it was concluded, as in the previous decision, that the applicant’s allegations of police ill‑treatment had not been based on real facts and that the only injuries confirmed in 2012, namely the abrasion on the chest and bruising to the ribs, could have been received by the applicant in the fight with v., as had been confirmed by v. in 2012.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in şırnak. on 6 october 2005 the cizre public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the cizre criminal court against the applicant and four others. those who wish for war prevent us from having peace. as you know, mr abdullah öcalan, the leader of the kurdish people, called for a ceasefire six years ago. the government have failed to take a proper view of that six-year unilateral ceasefire and therefore the war has re-started. we have once again started to receive the bodies of guerrillas and soldiers. mr abdullah öcalan has not been able to meet his lawyers or members of his family for the last three months. the applicant contended that he had not praised an illegal organisation in his speech and that he had not intended to disseminate propaganda. he noted that he had only thanked those who had made an effort to bring about peace. for us, those who conducted themselves in such a manner are the people who do not want peace in this country (his speech is interrupted by applause and ululations). subsequently, we were taken into police custody because of our democratic reaction to the search order. we were kept in police custody for one night and then taken before a court. however, it took a decision to place me under judicial control. a person lost his life and hundreds were injured. that is why we participated in the peace march that was organised by tuhay-der. we hope that our friends who were injured will recover soon. on 19 february 2008 the diyarbakır assize court delivered its judgment. as regards the applicant, the diyarbakır assize court also noted that he had referred to mr öcalan as “the leader of the kurdish people” and to members of the pkk who had been killed as “guerrillas”. the court also found it established that the applicant had directed the demonstrators who had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk, waved yellow, red and green pieces of cloth and carried photographs of abdullah öcalan. 5532, and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in dubna, moscow region. on 3 july 2003 she was examined by a panel of psychiatrists, who concluded that her clinical state was unclear and that no answers could be given concerning her mental health state. the applicant did not initiate any further proceedings in this regard. on 4 november 2003 the prosecution made an application for the court to order an involuntary forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant at the forensic psychiatry centre. on the same day the town court granted the prosecutor’s application. ... the court considers that it should allow the application by the investigator, ms d., to place [the applicant] in [the forensic psychiatry centre] for a forensic psychiatric evaluation, because [the applicant] is in need of such a hospital examination.” however, both the prosecutor and the investigator attended and made oral submissions. her application was granted on each occasion. on 29 december 2003 during the appeal hearing in a separate set of proceedings she accused the judges of criminal conspiracy and attempted murder. the proceedings in respect of the two criminal cases were joined. on 9 april 2004 the applicant was apprehended by the authorities and transferred to the forensic psychiatry centre. on the same day the applicant was released. two weeks later on 27 april 2004 the moscow regional court (московский областной суд) (“the regional court”) held a hearing on the applicant’s appeal against the the town court’s decision of 4 november 2003 authorising psychiatric examination, and rejected it. the first decision terminated the criminal proceedings relating to the contempt of court charges in respect of the events of 22 december 2002. concluding that the applicant had acted in a state of insanity, it terminated the criminal proceedings against her and ordered her to undergo compulsory medical treatment in a psychiatric facility. on 22 december 2004 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the lower court’s decisions. 14 (московская областная психиатрическая больница № 14) for compulsory psychiatric treatment. on 16 may 2006 a panel of hospital psychiatrists concluded that the applicant’s mental health had improved and she no longer posed a danger to society. on 22 may 2006 the town court scheduled the hearing of the application for the next day. the applicant was released from hospital on 15 august 2006.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in the city of ternopil, ukraine. she also stated that the loan had been repaid in part, and as of june 2002, a debt of usd 13,400 remained outstanding. according to the applicant, on the morning of 30 july 2002 mrs sh. according to the statements of mr and mrs sh. no injuries were inflicted on the applicant in the course of that dispute. on 30 july 2002 the applicant was taken by ambulance to the emergency unit of the ternopil town municipal hospital, being admitted there at 5.30 p.m. according to the medical records, at the time of the applicant’s admission she was diagnosed with a brain concussion but no other traumatic injuries. the applicant remained in hospital from 30 july to 23 august 2002. on 30 july 2002 the applicant’s husband lodged a complaint with the ternopil town police department. on 9 august 2002 the police refused a request to institute criminal proceedings against mr and mrs sh. the forensic experts recorded that on 30 july 2002 the applicant had been admitted to hospital. on 30 october 2002 the police questioned mrs sh. refused to pay the interest and there had been a dispute with the applicant, following which the applicant left. on 2 and 4 january 2003 the police questioned three individuals, mrs p., mr pukh. on 13 january 2003 the expert commission of the ternopil regional bureau of forensic medical examinations confirmed the findings of the expert examination of 4 september 2002. for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed. maintained that on 29 july 2002 the applicant had come to their house together with her husband and had demanded the interest on the above amount. according to them, the applicant had with her a small pot containing an unknown liquid, which she said was acid. she had threatened to pour the acid into the eyes of the sh. in particular, in the decision of 5 may 2003 the deputy head of the investigation office of the ternopil town police department ordered that a reconstruction of the incident be staged with a view to establishing the facts of the case and in order to support or rebut the conflicting statements of the witnesses. by the first decision the police terminated the criminal proceedings against mr and mrs sh.,
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in kerch. on 10 october 2005 the tsentralnyy district court of simferopol (“the tsentralnyy court”) authorised the applicant’s pre-trial detention. the court held that the applicant was accused of committing a serious crime and might escape, or hinder the investigation, or continue his criminal activity. on the same day the court of appeal of the arc upheld the decision of 10 october 2005. on 5 december 2005 the tsentralnyy court extended the applicant’s detention until 7 february 2006 on the same grounds as before. on 24 july 2007 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law. 15 (ізолятор тимчасового тримання № 15 м. феодосія) (“the feodosiya itt”) respectively. in the simferopol sizo the applicant shared cell no. 29, which measured 10 square metres, with four other detainees. there were cockroaches and other insects. the toilet space was very narrow – around 45-50 centimetres in width – which caused the applicant, who is 1.94 metres tall and weighs 160 kilograms, considerable difficulties. the toilet space was very narrow – around 30 centimetres in width. 30 minutes’ outside exercise was possible once every ten to fifteen days in a small yard which measured 4.5 square metres. the applicant submitted undated photos of a cell, in which it is apparent that the toilet (a hole in the floor plugged by a plastic bottle) is separated from the living space by a wall approximately one metre high. as regards the feodosiya itt, the applicant’s cell had 5.7 square metres of living space and had been designed to accommodate two inmates. the detention facility had had a shower room with hot and cold water and a small backyard for daily walks. according to the applicant, he did not receive these letters. on 2 august 2006 the applicant complained to the prosecutor’s office of the arc about the alleged failure of the feodosiya prosecutor’s office to consider his complaints about conditions of detention. the court of appeal and the higher administrative court upheld the above decisions on 1 april 2008 and 21 december 2010 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in korça. on an unspecified date the applicant sought an injunction to suspend the construction works. on 13 january 2006 the korça district court (“the district court”) issued an injunction and ordered the construction to be suspended. on 26 january 2006 the applicant brought an action against the defendant to bring the construction works to an end immediately, remove the high-voltage line and restore the site to its previous state. on 7 april 2006 the district court ordered the immediate termination of the works on the applicant’s plot of land, the removal of the high-voltage line and the restoration of the site to its former state (ndalimin e punimeve si dhe duke detyruar ana e paditur të heqë kabllot, të dy linjat dhe ta kthejë pronën në gjendjen e mëparshme). the district court reasoned that the defendant had unlawfully constructed that line on the applicant’s property. on 27 june 2006 the court of appeal upheld that judgment. on 22 february 2008, following the supreme court’s judgment of 11 january 2008, the applicant again requested that the bailiff enforce the judgment of 7 april 2006. from 2008 to 2011 the bailiff unsuccessfully sought to enforce the final judgment. in particular, on 29 february 2008 the bailiff sought to have the defendant comply voluntarily with the judgment. on 21 september 2011 and 25 november 2011 the defendant informed the bailiff that the applicant was prepared to solve the dispute with the authorities by way of a friendly settlement. she requested the continuation of the enforcement proceedings. on 8 april 2015 the bailiff imposed another fine on the defendant for failing to comply with the final judgment. on 20 may 2008 the applicant filed a criminal complaint against the bailiff and the distributor energy operator (operatori i shpërndarjes së energjisë elektrike) (“dec”) for failure to comply with the judgment of 7 april 2006. it appears that on an unspecified date the court of appeal discontinued the proceedings by virtue of a final judgment. on 7 may 2012 the district court decided to stay the proceedings and await the conclusion of the civil proceedings instituted by aec against the administrative decisions of 14 july 1995 and 14 june 1996 (see paragraph 24 below), which had recognised the applicant’s property rights. it appears that the case is still pending before the domestic courts. on 6 january 2009 and 17 october 2013 the court of appeal and the supreme court respectively upheld that decision. it would appear that aec did not appeal against that judgment and it became final on an unspecified date. on 17 april 2012 and 22 december 2014, respectively, the district court discontinued its examination of the actions on the grounds that aec and dec had failed to attend hearings for no good reason.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in tirana. on 18 june 2009 the applicant, who worked as general deputy director of state social service (zëvendës drejtor i përgjithshëm i shërbimit social shtetëror) at the ministry of work, social affairs and equal opportunities (ministria e punës, çështjeve sociale dhe shanseve të barabarta) (“the ministry”) was dismissed. on 27 january 2010 the tirana district court accepted in part the applicant’s action against his dismissal. it ordered the applicant’s reinstatement and the payment of damages corresponding to five months’ salaries. by final judgment of 23 november 2010 the tirana court of appeal upheld the tirana district court’s judgment. on 6 may 2011 an enforcement writ was issued. from 2011 to 2014 the bailiff office unsuccessfully attempted the enforcement of the final judgment. on 9 december 2014 the authorities finally paid the damages to the applicant. on 8 april 2016 the state social service requested the ministry to examine the applicant’s reinstatement. on the same day the state social service addressed a letter to the department of the public administration, stating that the position of the deputy director was available.
the applicant company is a limited liability company registered in 2004 in ukraine, with its registered office in kyiv. on 12 april 2005 the applicant company and another company, s., concluded an agreement by which the applicant company undertook to provide information and analytical services to s., and the latter undertook to pay for those services. on 24 november 2005 the parties concluded an additional agreement for supplementary services to be provided to s. by the applicant company. on 27 april 2006 the applicant company lodged a claim against s. with the kyiv commercial court, seeking recovery of an alleged debt under the above agreement, as well as the payment of penalties and legal fees. on 9 june 2006 the kyiv commercial court opened the proceedings in the case. on 11 september 2006, during a hearing in the case, s. submitted a counterclaim, seeking that the agreement be declared void. the court adjourned the hearing until 14 september 2006 without deciding on the admissibility of the counterclaim. on 14 september 2006 the judge hearing the case accepted s.’s counterclaim for joint consideration with the original claim by the applicant company. at the same hearing, the judge granted s.’s counterclaim in part and rejected the original claim of the applicant company in full. according to the record of the hearing, the hearing lasted ten minutes. on 13 october 2006 the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 14 september 2006 with the higher commercial court of ukraine (“the hccu”). the applicant company requested that the impugned judgment be quashed and the case remitted to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. on 9 november 2006 the hccu returned the applicant company’s appeal on points of law to it without considering the appeal on the merits, because the relevant court fee had not been paid in full. on 21 november 2006 the applicant company resubmitted its appeal on points of law with proof of having paid the full court fee. the appeal on points of law was submitted together with a cover letter. apart from that information, the cover letter contained the date, name and address of the court to which it was addressed, the case reference number, the parties’ contact details, and the disputed amount which was the subject of the case. the letter ended with a list of enclosures, the applicant company’s lawyer’s details, his signature and a stamp. relying on sub-paragraph 5 of article 111-3 § 1, the hccu declined to consider the applicant company’s appeal on points of law. the application had been included in the text of the cover letter accompanying the appeal on points of law. on 22 february 2007 the supreme court upheld the decision of 19 december 2006.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in cherkasy. during the investigations and trial the applicant was held in the cherkasy temporary investigative isolation unit (“the sizo”) no. on 15 october 2004 the applicant was placed in sokalska correctional colony no. subsequently, the applicant was placed in a cell in which he was visited by a group of officers, including the prison governor and medical officer, with a view to completing the formalities related to the applicant’s transfer to that prison. the prosecutor based his decision on the information available from the applicant’s medical file and the written statements obtained from the prison staff, including the medical officer who had examined the applicant upon his arrival at the prison, and also from some of the prisoners who had been transferred to the prison on the same day as the applicant. the cells were unventilated, always damp, and not sufficiently heated in winter. when the applicant was taken out of his cell to the exercise area he was allegedly obliged to walk with his hands handcuffed behind his back and raised above his head, causing him physical and mental suffering. the exercise area measured about twenty-two square metres; it was damp and lacked direct sunlight. there was also equipment enabling inmates to do physical exercises. the food and water was regularly checked and was of adequate quality. allegedly, he had not received adequate medical treatment in that regard and had not been allowed to keep medication he needed. by a ruling of 20 february 2006, the court refused to deal with the applicant’s complaint, holding that the matter fell outside the court’s jurisdiction. in sokalska prison no more than two adults and one child could be present at any one time. subsequently, the applicant was only allowed to receive telephone calls once every three months upon his written request. the applicant also stated that before those events he had been subjected to disciplinary sanctions when he had received letters from the court in detention, but provided no details in this regard. by letters dated 19 august 2003 and 25 february 2004, the court asked the applicant to submit documentary evidence in respect of his complaints under articles 3 and 6 of the convention. in particular, he was invited to submit copies of his written complaints to the national authorities concerning his alleged ill-treatment, a copy of the prosecutor’s decision concerning those complaints, a copy of his cassation appeal against the judgment of the cherkasy regional court of appeal of 23 august 2001, and copies of his written applications to have a witness on his behalf examined by that court. on 16 november 2004 the cherkasy regional court of appeal confirmed the ruling of the first-instance court. according to the applicant, he missed the deadline because the sokalska prison authorities had failed to dispatch his correspondence on time. on 27 march 2007 the court declared the applicant’s previous application inadmissible.
the first applicant is a former world chess champion. he and the other six applicants are political activists. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 24 november 2007 a group of opposition politicians organised protests rallies in several russian cities, including moscow. according to the applicants, at 3 p.m., at the end of the gathering, they started walking to the location of another authorised gathering which took place on chistoprudnyy boulevard between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. the government alleged that some 1,500 people took part in the procession, a figure contested by the applicants as grossly overestimated. it appears that on their way, which ran past myasnitskaya street, the applicants also intended to take a petition to the central electoral committee. however, their route was blocked by the riot police and they were arrested, with excessive force allegedly being used against them. 382 of the krasnoselskiy district of moscow. the hearing was adjourned, but only until 7.15 p.m. that evening. the first applicant applied for six witnesses to be called and examined. these included four police officers and two eyewitnesses waiting outside the courthouse. he also requested that certain video and photographic material be admitted as evidence. the first applicant pleaded not guilty and disputed the police officers’ testimony and police reports. he denied that there had been an organised march, or that he had called out to anyone to follow him. she based her findings on m. and u.’s witness statements and written reports, the administrative offence statements in respect of two charges and the report on the administrative arrest. the justice of the peace examined only police officer u., who gave essentially the same testimony as in the first applicant’s case. the second applicant pleaded not guilty and alleged that he had been arrested while walking from the authorised meeting to the metro station. she found him guilty of both charges and sentenced him to five days’ administrative detention. on the same day the meshchanskiy district court of moscow examined and dismissed appeals lodged by the first and second applicant. the applicants served their sentences in detention centres for administrative offenders (спецприемник).
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in lakha-varanda, chechen republic. p. met the applicant and gave him the money he had received from the police. according to the police officers, the applicant resisted the arrest and they had to handcuff him. on 22 may 2009 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 8 september 2009 noting as follows:“having heard the parties’ arguments, the court concludes that, in view of the fact that [the applicant] is charged with a ... grievous offence ... which he committed whilst on parole, the court considers that, if released, he might abscond or continue criminal activities. on 2 november 2009 the town court opened the trial. the interpreter refused to interpret and asked the court to relieve him of his duties. according to applicant, at the station he was assaulted by three police officers. on 21 and 22 may 2009 the applicant was examined by a paramedic. on 22 may 2009 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the police and the prosecutor’s office about the incident of 21 may 2009. according to the reports, m. pulled the applicant’s right arm behind his back using a combat technique and guard k. handcuffed the applicant to put an end to his resistance. on 22 october 2009 the expert issued an additional forensic report, noting that it was impossible to determine the exact date on which the applicant had sustained the injuries. on 17 march 2011 the regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. he also threatened the guards and insulted them. on 3 november 2010 the applicant took part in a hearing at the supreme court of the russian federation by means of video link. the major then told the orderlies to pull the applicant off the bed and continued the beatings, administering multiple blows to the applicant’s head and other parts of the body. on 7 october 2012 the applicant was transferred to correctional colony no. the access to shower facilities was limited. on the days of the court hearings, the applicant did not have any meals at all. he was held in such conditions for several hours awaiting the hearing. (b)  description provided by the government 73.
the applicant was born in 1970 in armenia. on 20 september 2012 the sverdlovsk region office of the federal migration service ordered his deportation to armenia. it seems that the deportation order was executed on 11 october 2012. he was connected to a medical ventilator and subjected to emergency anti-shock treatment. on 6 august 2008 the police opened a criminal case into car theft. a police investigator asked the attending doctor whether the applicant could be discharged from hospital and transferred to a detention facility. on 8 august 2008 the investigator reported the content of the above letter to his superior. it does not seem that any special arrangements for the applicant’s transport were made. on 21 august 2008 the kurgan regional court quashed the order of 13 august 2008 in view of the applicant’s absence from the hearing before the town court. on 23 september 2008 the town court changed the measure of restraint to detention pending investigation. the regional court upheld that detention order on appeal. on 22 november 2008 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 december 2008, citing the seriousness of the charges and the lack of a permanent residence in russia. in the discharge summary drafted on account of the applicant’s arrest, “continued medical treatment” and crutches were prescribed. it was not disputed by the parties that the next day the applicant had been placed in a cell designed to accommodate a maximum of four inmates. m. on 13 august and between 15 and 19 august 2008 the applicant had to share that cell with seven other inmates, with each inmate thus having no more than 1.9 sq. in the prison hospital several medical tests were performed. he was seen by a surgeon and a neurologist. as to the conditions of the applicant’s detention during that period, the government submitted that the applicant had been transferred between several cells of the remand prison, some of which were overcrowded. m of floor space, and occasionally less than 2 sq. m. according to the applicant, the cells were poorly ventilated, had non-partitioned toilets and were infested with bugs, mice and lice.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in tomsk. the newspaper is published and distributed in the tomsk region. the article described everyday life in a state-owned care home for the elderly, lesnaya dacha, giving examples of various residents who were or had been living there. it exposed practical difficulties encountered by the personnel in taking care of the residents in the absence of necessary equipment, and also mentioned that quite a few residents had been abandoned in the care home by their relatives. that sentence was followed by text in bold letters:“there is, for example, a room in which the mother of deputy [s.] died. it is a single room, however small and narrow. the ill and massively corpulent woman lay here for four months. nurses remember that it was very hard to lift and turn her ...” 9. sometimes ordinary nurses happen to be more merciful than people in authority ...” 10. they claimed that the above-mentioned extracts contained statements aiming to create negative feeling on the part of readers towards the s. family and influence them as voters during the elections. they also referred to article 24 of the russian constitution, which prohibited the dissemination of information about an individual without his or her consent. the court, having examined certain witnesses, also considered that mrs s. had indeed caused the claimants inconvenience and complicated their life, and that they had therefore decided to place her in a medical institution. the court thus concluded that the sentence stating “...quite a few respectable people bring their ill relatives to the care home in an attempt to escape unnecessary troubles...” could not be said to be untrue, whether it was the applicant’s generalisation or a sentence relating to the claimants, as alleged by them. it also rejected as unfounded the claimants’ argument that the disputed publication had been propagandistic and had aimed to influence voters’ opinions; in this respect, it noted that the text of the article was socially oriented and contained general argument concerning the problems affecting ill and elderly people, with the specific example of the lesnaya dacha care home. on 30 june 2000 the tomsk regional court upheld the above judgment on appeal. on 30 may 2001 the presidium of the tomsk regional court, in supervisory review proceedings, dismissed an extraordinary appeal against the judgment of 17 april 2000 and the appeal decision of 30 june 2000, thus upholding those decisions. it noted that, according to resolution no. 11 of the supreme court of russia (see paragraph 27 below), a claimant was under an obligation to prove the fact of the dissemination of information, whereas a defendant was under an obligation to prove that such information corresponded to reality. in particular, the regional court noted that the headline of the article and the sequence of its sentences made it clear that the statement, along with the reference to the lack of mercy for next of kin, although generalised, related to the claimants. in support of this conclusion, the appellate court referred to the statements of two witnesses who had confirmed that they had perceived the extracts to relate to the claimants.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in skørping. from the beginning of 2006 the applicant was represented by lawyer a, and as from 21 august 2009, the applicant was represented by lawyer b. 8. by decision of 24 september 2009 the city court granted a fees in the amount of dkk 183,862.50 (approximately eur 24,700) plus vat and reimbursement of costs in the amount of dkk 2,060 which was provisionally to be paid by the treasury. it appears that the transcript of the court records was sent to counsel a and the prosecutor in accordance with usual practice. neither the applicant nor b was informed of this decision. the case was heard before the city court (retten i viborg) over 15 days between 24 september and 4 december 2009. by a judgment of 4 december 2009, the city court convicted the applicant and the three co-accused. the applicant and b were present when the judgment was passed. a few days later lawyer b received a transcript of the judgment, which in the operative part relating to legal fees stated:“each of the accused is to pay the legal costs relating to them, including the fee to counsel appointed to them.” it was stated that the amount was to be paid by the applicant. on 17 january 2010, on behalf of the applicant, b appealed against the decision. he did not contest the amount granted, but claimed that it should be paid entirely or partly by the treasury. this was the moment when the applicant became aware for the first time of the fees that had been granted to a. 16. he also requested that the city court send him the court records of the decision to grant fees to a. 17. the court records of 24 september 2009 and a’s letters of 1 and 9 september 2009 were also enclosed with the letter. in his view, the time-limit for appealing against the decisions on the fees to be paid to a should, at the earliest, run from 25 january 2010, the date on which the applicant received the invoice from the police and thus became aware for the first time of the fees that had been granted to a. 21. by decision of 10 march 2010 the high court dismissed the appeal as being lodged out of time. this decision was integrated in the judgment of 4 december 2009 and the applicant, who was present when the judgment was passed, was informed of the decision during that hearing. thus, the time-limit had expired when the interlocutory appeal was lodged on 17 january 2010.” leave to appeal to the supreme court was refused by the appeals permission board on 18 june 2010.
the applicant was born in 1967 and until his arrest lived in menzelinsk, the tatarstan republic. in 1999 he was convicted and sent to serve his sentence in a correctional colony. iz-16/3 in the tatarstan republic (“the remand prison”). on several occasions he was transported to a temporary detention unit at the naberezhnyye chelny police station (“the temporary detention unit”). the applicant was detained in the remand prison during several periods between 7 april 2008 and 7 october 2009. according to the applicant, for most of the period of his detention, 184 days between 7 april 2008 and 11 february 2009, he was detained alone in cell no. the toilet pan was not separated from the living area. the cell was poorly lit and the ventilation system did not function. metal shutters on the windows blocked access to natural light and fresh air. the cell was not equipped with either a television set or a radio, and newspapers were not available. the bedding in those cells was torn and dirty. the cells had no television set or refrigerator. the quality of food in the remand prison was poor. throughout the entire period of his detention the applicant was allowed access to the exercise yard, which was dirty and dusty, for only fifty minutes a day. this facility was overpopulated and inmates had no access to outdoor exercise. on 19 may 2009 the custodial authorities transported the applicant to a civilian dentist, who diagnosed chronic pulpitis and periodontitis, and provided some treatment. on 17 september 2009 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the judgment on appeal. the dentist also pointed out that the excessively long time the treatment had taken had already caused substantial suffering to the applicant and increased the risk of digestive problems. having not been taken to the dentist as recommended, the applicant submitted several requests for the dental treatment, stating that he had lost the ability to chew and in addition to severe teeth pain he started experiencing stomach pain. in august 2010 the applicant was taken to a dentist who completed the dental restoration.
until his death in 2016 he was detained in correctional colony no. 14 in the village of olovyannaya, zabaykalsk region. on the same day he was taken into custody. prior to his detention the applicant sustained several spinal injuries and lost the ability to walk unaided. since 2013 he has been confined to a wheelchair. on his admission to a remand prison in january 2014, the applicant was given a general medical check-up by the doctor on duty, to whom he complained of lower back and joint pain. the doctor provisionally diagnosed him with spinal tuberculosis. several days later he was seen by a medical specialist, who amended his diagnosis to osteoporosis with compression fractures of two discs of the lumbar spine. he was prescribed pain relief medication and advised to undergo several medical tests. according to the applicant, even painkillers were unavailable in the remand prison. on 30 july 2014 the applicant was sent to prison hospital no. 1 in chita, zabaiykalsk region, for an in-depth medical examination to establish whether he was entitled to early release on medical grounds. a hip x-ray revealed that he suffered from an old displaced fracture of the cervical hip with full avulsion of the greater trochanter. on 27 august 2014 a specialist medical panel of the prison hospital concluded that the applicant was not eligible for early release, because none of his illnesses were included in the governmental decree containing a list of illnesses precluding offenders from serving their sentences. on the same day the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital. that decision was upheld on appeal by the zabaiykalsk regional court on 16 december 2014. on 25 march 2015 the applicant was seen by a traumatologist, who diagnosed him with an inguinal hernia and recommended surgery to be performed at a later date. the doctor also stated that he should be provided with a walking stick and a walking frame. in the meantime he brought a civil claim against the medical authorities seeking compensation for damage to his health caused by inadequate medical treatment. on 15 june 2015 the central district court of chita dismissed the claim.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. on 13 october 2006 the zamoskvoretskiy district court in moscow remanded the applicant in custody on the charge of fraud. subsequently the district court extended the applicant’s detention on 8 december 2006 and on 2 february, 10 april, 29 may and 18 september 2007. each time the district court attached preponderant weight to the gravity of the charges against the applicant. on 21 may and 4 july 2007 the moscow city court rejected the appeals against the detention orders of 10 april and 29 may 2007, respectively. the city court authorised further extensions of the applicant’s detention on 28 september and 26 december 2007. the supreme court rejected his appeals on 31 october 2007 and 15 february 2008, respectively. on 14 february 2008 the case was submitted for trial. on 20 february, 30 june and 17 december 2008 and 18 march and 18 june 2009 the district courts in moscow prolonged the applicant’s detention pending trial, referring mainly to the gravity of the charges. the most recent extension order was issued for the period until 19 september 2009. between 27 january 2007 and 16 may 2008 the applicant was detained in the iz-77/1 remand prison in moscow. the prison was filled beyond the design capacity and cells were severely overcrowded. he was later transferred to another remand prison in moscow.
he lived in brussels and died there on 7 june 2016. the couple subsequently had a child together in august 1999 and another in july 2006. on 29 december 1998 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on charges of theft. it was immediately rejected after his fingerprints had been checked. the aliens office noted that the applicant had been allowed to remain in the country for the sole purpose of the asylum proceedings, which had been concluded by a final decision. that decision was served on the applicant on 11 july 2010. after a relapse diagnosed in 2013, the doctors in st pierre university hospital observed in march 2014 that the applicant’s leukaemia had developed into lymphocytic lymphoma, and his chemotherapy was adjusted accordingly. a medical certificate issued on 25 may 2015 by the specialist treating the applicant, dr l., head of the experimental haematology laboratory at the institut bordet, stated that the patient’s viral load was stable. this is a new targeted therapy to which he would have no access in his country of origin. a hla [human leukocyte antigen] matched donor has been identified for the patient. on 10 september 2007, relying on articles 3 and 8 of the convention and alleging, in particular, that he would be unable to obtain treatment for his leukaemia (see paragraph 34 above) if he were sent back to georgia, the applicant lodged a first request for regularisation on medical grounds on the basis of section 9ter of the aliens act. he alleged in particular that the aliens office had relied exclusively on the ministerial deportation order in excluding him from the scope of section 9ter of the aliens act, without investigating his state of health or the risk he ran of being subjected to treatment contrary to article 3 of the convention, and without weighing up the interests at stake as required by article 8 of the convention. the report prepared by the medical adviser on that occasion listed the consultations held and the treatment that had been administered to the applicant. chemotherapy has been discontinued for the time being. the diseases referred to in the most recent update to the medical file ([dr l.], 25 may 2015) ... do not disclose:– a direct threat to the life of the patient. after the birth, the family was granted leave to remain until 14 october 1999 because the new-born baby was in hospital. the applicant, who was in hospital, did not contact his lawyer in order to lodge an application to have the ministerial order set aside. in parallel with its decision of 7 july 2010 refusing the applicant’s request for regularisation on exceptional grounds (see paragraph 29 above), the aliens office on 7 july 2010 issued an order for him to leave the country, together with an order for his detention. the time-limit was initially extended until 13 november 2010 and was subsequently extended several times until 19 february 2011. in the meantime, on 23 july 2010, the applicant applied to the court for interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court.
was a romanian limited liability company, with a registered office in cluj-napoca. on 7 march 2002 the cluj prefecture issued the applicant company with an operating permit, which was valid until 7 march 2005. its main activity consisted in collecting and recycling scrap iron. 265/2001 (see paragraph 28 below) an application for extension of the operating permit had to be submitted at least thirty days prior to the expiry of the previous permit. the relevant guidelines were published on 11 january 2005. in a letter of 25 january 2005, rea informed the applicant company that under the new order no. 876/2004, its activity was considered to have a significant impact on the environment and that it should therefore follow the authorisation procedure set out in that order. the applicant company was invited to submit new supporting documents within thirty days. the applicant company submitted the requested documents on 27 january 2005. a new environmental permit was issued on 24 march 2005. on 14 april 2005 the prefecture issued a new operating permit. in this connection, it argued that the application for an extension of the operating permit had been lodged in good time, namely on 4 january 2005. the court dismissed the applicant company’s claim that liability for its situation lay with the authorities for failing to issue its environmental and operating permits in time, holding that such a claim would be relevant only within the framework of a tort action and could not be raised as a reason for exonerating a company that had committed an administrative offence. moreover, rea had interpreted the applicant company’s application as a request for a new permit instead of for an extension of the existing permits, given that the operation conditions had not changed. that had further delayed the authorisation procedure. on 10 march 2006 the cluj county court dismissed the action as premature, holding that the applicant company had not followed the prior procedure required by law before lodging an action with the court. on 31 may 2006 the cluj court of appeal allowed the applicant company’s appeal. it quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case to the first-instance court for examination on the merits. 265/2001, had provided only for the obligation to obtain an environmental permit, without establishing the procedure to be followed in that respect. the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law, pointing out that on 4 january 2005 when it had lodged its application for an extension of the operating permit, the guidelines for implementation of the new order had not yet been published.
the applicant was born in 1951 and until his arrest lived in vladivostok, primorskiy region. on 21 november 2003 a criminal case was opened against the applicant and seven other suspects (the “first case”). the court noted that the applicant was a person of mature years, permanently residing at a known address, that he had no criminal record, had never attempted to abscond, and, at the time in question had been undergoing inpatient medical treatment in a hospital. that decision was upheld on appeal by the primosrskiy regional court on 21 november 2005. on 23 january 2006 the district court remanded the applicant in detention. the court also stated that his state of health did not preclude him from detention. the regional court upheld that decision on appeal on 20 february 2006. over the following months the applicant’s detention was extended on several occasions, including on 2 march, 1 june and 3 september 2007. the regional court upheld them on 26 march, 3 july and 24 september 2007 respectively. when the hearing resumed, the applicant’s lawyer opposed to the extension of the detention, referring, among other things, to the applicant’s health problems and the fact that the address of his residence was known. according to the government, given the non-attendance of the applicant’s lawyer and the failures of the detention authorities to ensure the presence of the applicant, the proceedings were postponed on several occasions. they were eventually held on 7 february 2008. that detention order was upheld on appeal on 10 april 2008. during the admission procedure to a remand prison the applicant told a prison doctor about his history of heart disease and was diagnosed with coronary disease and angina pectoris. on 5 april 2006 the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital. having suffered a serious hypertensive crisis in late june 2006, the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital on 7 july 2006. he remained there until his release from detention on 28 may 2008. on the day of the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital the head of the therapeutic department established that the hypertensive disease had progressed to the most advanced stage. some days later the applicant’s drug regimen was adjusted. the adjustment had a positive effect on his health.
the applicant was born in 1976 and, prior to his arrest, lived in oblivskaya, rostov region. on 22 october 2007 the applicant, a police officer at the time, was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing. on 24 october 2007 the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don authorised the applicant’s remand in custody. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. referring to the seriousness of the charges and the applicant being a police officer, the courts extended his pre-trial detention on the grounds that he might abscond, or interfere with the administration of justice, or put pressure on witnesses and other defendants. the applicant lodged appeals against the detention orders. on 4 january and 22 february 2008 the regional court upheld the decisions of 29 december 2007 and 6 february 2008 in the applicant’s absence. the applicant and his lawyer were informed about the hearings but the applicant was not granted leave to attend. the applicant’s lawyer attended the hearing on 22 february 2008. the prosecutor was present and made submissions to the court. on 17 december 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty of several counts of illegal drug dealing and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment. on 10 june 2009 the regional court quashed the judgment of 17 december 2008 on appeal and remitted the matter to the trial court for fresh consideration. the court ordered that the applicant remain in custody. on 15 july 2009 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing of the case and ordered that the applicant remain in detention. on 18 november 2009, 29 january and 29 april 2010 the district court adjourned the hearing of the case. it further extended the applicant’s detention on the ground that he was charged with grievous criminal offences and might abscond. on 6 may 2011 the applicant was found guilty.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in oradea. on 11 december 2008 the national anticorruption department instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant and a police officer for traffic of influence (trafic de influenţă). the applicant was accused, as a lawyer, of having requested and received money from a client in return for persuading certain judges, other than in the context of the judicial proceedings, to adopt a favourable judgment in his client’s case. on the same day the case prosecutor authorised several police officers to enforce a warrant to appear (mandat de aducere) issued in the applicant’s name on the basis of articles 183 and 184 of the criminal procedure code. according to the warrant, the applicant’s presence was required in order to be heard as a suspect (învinuit) in the criminal investigation instituted in file no. no other reasons or conditions were stated on the authorisation or the warrant itself. according to the police officer’s report, the applicant was shown the warrant to appear and was escorted to the police station in the nearby town of salonta. at 9.40 a.m. the applicant was handed over to two other police officers who escorted him to the timişoara office of the national anticorruption department (t.n.a.d.). according to the escorting police officers’ report, which was signed also by the applicant, he was handed over to the prosecutor at 11.40 a.m. 9. according to the record of the statements the applicant made before the prosecutor, he was heard as a suspect by the prosecutor at the t.n.a.d. according to the applicant, his phone, wallet and watch had been confiscated by the police officers and were held during this entire time. moreover, he had been constantly guarded by the police. by an order issued on 12 december 2008 the applicant was placed in police custody for twenty-four hours commencing at 5.10 p.m. 12. on 13 december 2008 the prosecutor’s request for the placement of the applicant in pre-trial detention for thirty days was allowed by the timişoara court of appeal. the applicant complained before the court that he had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty from 8 a.m. to 5.10 p.m. on the previous day. he requested that the above-mentioned period be deducted from his time in custody. the court considered that it was not competent to decide on this complaint and suggested that the applicant should have used the procedure provided by article 1401 of the criminal procedure code. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs) against that judgment, reiterating that he had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty. on 17 december 2008 the high court of cassation and justice rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as ill-founded without addressing his complaint regarding the lawfulness of his detention prior to his placement in police custody. on 12 march 2010 the applicant was found guilty with final effect and given a suspended sentence of four years’ imprisonment for traffic of influence.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chișinău. on 2 october 2008 the chișinău court of appeal delivered a judgment acknowledging the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension. owing to the lack of an appeal, the judgment became final on 22 october 2008. on 1 december 2008 the ministry of defence lodged an appeal on points of law. on 4 february 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed the appeal on points of law, quashed the judgment of 2 october 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination on the merits. after several rounds of proceedings, on 2 march 2011 the supreme court of justice finally acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement to a disability pension. meanwhile, after communication, the prosecutor general, following a request from the government agent, lodged an application for revision with the supreme court of justice, seeking the reopening of the proceedings and redress for the violation of the applicant’s rights. in those proceedings, the applicant claimed 29,069.17 moldovan lei (mdl) in respect of pecuniary damage, mdl 25,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage, mdl 29,784.60 for legal costs and mdl 4,000 for miscellaneous expenses. on 23 june 2011 the supreme court of justice found a violation of the applicant’s rights as a result of the quashing of the final judgment in his favour. it set aside the judgment of 4 february 2009 and the subsequent judgments adopted in the reopened proceedings and decided to restore the final judgment of 2 october 2008 in the applicant’s favour. the court then awarded the applicant mdl 15,000 (equivalent to 890 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage, mdl 15,000 for legal costs and mdl 1,000 for miscellaneous expenses. the court dismissed the applicant’s claims in respect of pecuniary damage, arguing that they could not be examined by direct application of article 41 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in baktalórántháza. subsequently, she was in receipt of unemployment benefit from 15 september 1997 until 9 september 1998. in response to a request lodged on 16 october 2001, the applicant was granted a disability pension (rokkantsági nyugdíj) later that same year on the basis of a retrospective finding that she had lost, as of 1 april 2001, 67% of her capacity to work on account of various ailments. this assessment was maintained in 2003, 2006 and 2007. as of 2008 the legislation on the methodology used to assess health impairment in occupational contexts changed. in application of the new methodology, the applicant’s disability was assessed by an expert at 40% on 1 december 2009. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 25 march 2010 the applicant brought an action before the nyíregyháza labour court, challenging the administrative decision. in an opinion of 16 february 2011, the expert submitted that the old score of 67%, as well as the new one of 40%, were correct under the respective methodologies; at any rate, the applicant’s condition had not significantly improved since 2007. it drew her attention to the possibility of making a renewed application for disability pension should her health deteriorate. on 5 september 2011 the first-instance authority assessed it at 45%, scheduling the next assessment for september 2014. such a level would have entitled her to disability pension had rehabilitation not been possible. however, this time the assessment panel envisaged the applicant’s complex rehabilitation within a 36-month time-frame, and recommended that she be entitled to rehabilitation allowance (rehabilitációs járadék). nevertheless, no such rehabilitation took place, and the applicant did not receive rehabilitation allowance. as of 1 january 2012, a new law on disability and related benefits (act no. it introduced additional eligibility criteria. in particular, instead of fulfilling a service period as required by the former legislation, the persons concerned had to have at least 1,095 days covered by social security in the five years preceding the submission of their requests. the next assessment was scheduled for april 2014. she underwent another assessment, during which her degree of disability was again established at 50%. the applicant’s request was refused by the relevant authority of szabolcs-szatmár-bereg county on 23 november 2012 and, on appeal, by the national rehabilitation and social welfare authority on 27 february 2013.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in nyzhni sirogozy. on 31 may 2013 the solonyansky district police department in dnipropetrovsk region instituted criminal proceedings in respect of a carjacking. on 4 june 2013 the applicant was arrested as a suspect in connection with the incident. it was also considered that he might evade his procedural obligations and abscond to avoid investigation and trial. on 21 june 2013 the applicant was charged with the robbery of g., committed together with v. 10. on 21 june 2013 the pre-trial investigation ended and the case against the applicant and v. was referred to the solonyansky district court. the case was then transferred to the krasnogvardiysk district court in dnipropetrovsk (“the district court”). on 2 august 2013 the district court remitted the case for further investigation and remanded the applicant in custody until 1 october 2013, noting that he had been suspected of a serious crime and might continue his criminal activities. on 1 october 2013 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and extended the detention of the applicant and v. until 29 november 2013. it noted, without going into any detail or indication to which of the co-accused it referred, that “other preventive measures will not ensure the appropriate behaviour of the accused” during the trial. on 26 november 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 january 2014, noting that he and v. had been charged with serious crimes, did not live in the area and were unemployed. on 27 december 2013 the applicant applied for release to the district court complaining about, among other things, his state of health. on 21 january 2014 the district court examined and rejected that application. as to his health problems, the court noted that he had been treated successfully for renal colic and was fit for trial. on 4 september 2014 the district court examined and rejected that application, extending the applicant’s detention until 2 november 2014. it repeated its previous reasoning, adding that he was aware of the punishment for the crime he had been charged with and thus might obstruct the criminal proceedings to avoid criminal liability. it also added that he and his co‑accused v. had no strong social ties. on 30 september 2014 the applicant lodged another application for release, which was rejected on 9 october 2014. on 27 january 2015 the applicant and v. were convicted by the krasnogvardiysk district court of robbery and carjacking and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. on 12 june 2015 the mensky district court in chernigiv region allowed the applicant’s application for early release.
the applicant had a restitution claim concerning movable property located in opočno castle. the castle itself belonged to another person, of whom the applicant is not an heir. after the end of the second world war, the property was once again confiscated, in 1945, by the czechoslovak state under the beneš decrees as he was considered to be of german nationality. that expropriation was quashed on appeal by the national council in prague (zemský národní výbor) on 21 january 1947 after it had been established that the applicant’s predecessor was of czechoslovak nationality and had been loyal to the czechoslovak state. what happened to the property afterwards is disputed and was discussed in the domestic decisions. on 31 march 1992, the applicant’s father, together with his cousin, ms. the applicant entered the proceedings as the heir and legal successor to his father, who died in 1998. those proceedings are not part of the present applications. it found that the applicant’s predecessor had been the owner of the property on the critical date, that is 25 february 1948 (see gratzinger and gratzingerova v. the czech republic (dec.), during a hearing on 8 october 2007, the court did not raise with the parties any questions or elements of evidence but was merely listening to the comments of the parties on the decision of the first-instance court, after which the case was adjourned for delivery of a judgment. the regional court based its decision on two pieces of evidence. firstly, there was a letter of 24 june 1947 from the national administrator of opočno castle to his superiors, informing them about a visit by the applicant’s predecessor to the castle. the 1947 decision had not been raised with the parties in the course of the hearing and the parties had not received an opportunity to comment on it. on 11 february 2009 the supreme court (nejvyšší soud) dismissed an appeal on points of law (dovolání) lodged by the applicant. it noted that the appellate court had reached its conclusion, inter alia, on the basis of the 1947 decision. on 22 april 2009 the district court dismissed the rest of the applicant’s restitution claim. in its reasoning it referred to the judgment of the regional court of 18 october 2007 and that of the supreme court of 11 february 2009. on 27 january 2011 the regional court upheld the first-instance judgment. despite the applicant’s repeated requests, the 1947 decision was not produced for the parties. on 28 november 2011 the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant on points of law.
the applicants were born in 1983, 1987 and 1988 respectively. they were accommodated in a part of the centre reserved for adult tunisians. the centre was kept permanently under police surveillance, making any contact with the outside world impossible. after being stopped by the police, the applicants were taken first back to the reception centre and then to lampedusa airport. on the morning of 22 september 2011 the applicants were flown to palermo. after disembarking they were transferred to ships that were moored in the harbour there. they could go outside onto the decks twice a day for only a few minutes at a time. they were allegedly insulted and ill-treated by the police, who kept them under permanent surveillance, and they claimed not to have received any information from the authorities. the applicants remained on the ships for a few days. –  the lodging of an appeal will not, in any event, suspend the enforcement (efficacia) of the present order. 286 of 1998; and with its registration under article 10 § 6 of the said legislative decree. these orders were each accompanied by a record of notification bearing the same date, also drafted in italian with an arabic translation. in the space reserved for the applicants’ signatures, both records contain the handwritten indication “[the person] refused to sign or to receive a copy” (si rifiuta di firmare e ricevere copia). in a decision of 1 june 2012 the palermo preliminary investigations judge (giudice per le indagini preliminari) granted the public prosecutor’s request. firstly, the cies were overcrowded, and secondly, the agreements with the tunisian authorities suggested that their return was supposed to be prompt. moreover, the judge was of the view that no malicious intent could be attributed to the authorities, whose conduct had been prompted first and foremost by the public interest. the migrants on board had been able to receive medical assistance, hot water, electricity, meals and hot drinks. moreover, as recorded in a press agency note of 25 september 2011, t.r., a member of parliament (mp) had boarded the ships in the port of palermo, and had observed that the migrants were in good health, that they were receiving assistance and were sleeping in cabins containing bed linen or reclining seats (poltrone reclinabili). 286 of 1998 (see paragraph 33 below) did not indicate any time-frame for the adoption of such orders, the judge took the view that a measure which by its very nature restricted the freedom of the person concerned had to be taken within a reasonably short time after the identification (fermo) of the unlawful migrant.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in helsinki. the applicant and her partner began to cohabit in 2003. their daughter was born in november 2004. on 21 august 2007 the kouvola district court held an oral hearing about the custody and contact rights. on 4 september 2007 the kouvola district court gave both parents joint custody of the child. the child was using vulgar language and was restless and anxious. they recommended that the meetings with the father be discontinued for the duration of the investigation. at the time the child was two years and ten months old. however, the applicant insisted on making the second report to the child welfare authorities, claiming that she had been threatened with loss of her custody rights if she did not allow the meetings with the father. on 18 january 2008 the applicant submitted another child welfare report and the second report to the police, insisting on another investigation and stating that she suspected that someone was abusing her child during visits to the child’s father. no somatic signs or symptoms of sexual abuse were found. on 16 april 2008 the parliamentary ombudsman decided not to take any measures as the police investigation was still pending before the kouvola police (see paragraph 20 above). the child had only been two years and ten months old at the time of the first police investigation. nor could the child’s other, more general symptoms have given sufficient confirmation of her insinuation. when assessing whether one is guilty of defamation, it is irrelevant that the act has been committed by pursuing an earlier report to child welfare authorities and that it has been made to a public official who is bound by confidentiality. must have understood that the insinuation was of such a kind that in any event it would come to the knowledge of [the child’s father] and that its content, being almost of the worst kind, was bound to cause him suffering. ...ignorance of legal provisions does not eliminate the punishability of an act. taking into account what has been said above about the circumstances of the case and the nature of the criminal insinuation, there is no basis for considering that m.p. sexual abuse did not always leave physical marks which could be revealed by medical examination but it was a grave procedural mistake not to interview the child during the pre-trial investigation. on 14 december 2011 the supreme court refused the applicant leave to appeal.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in valmiera. on several occasions between 2009 and 2011 the applicant was escorted to court hearings from various detention facilities where he was being held. during these transfers the applicant was subjected to strip-searches. according to the applicant, he was ordered to strip naked in the presence of other inmates and escorting officers, to assume embarrassing positions (squatting), and to submit to a visual inspection of his body. the strip-searches of the applicant were carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, 22 february and 8 june 2011. the applicant lodged several applications with the administrative courts concerning the strip-searches. they were all joined in one set of administrative proceedings (no. on 20 june 2012 the administrative district court (administratīvā rajona tiesa) dismissed the applicant’s complaints and terminated the proceedings. it held that the strip-searches had been objectively justified on security grounds and the manner in which they had been conducted had not gone beyond what had been required to ensure the efficacy of those searches. therefore these searches had not “significantly interfere[d]” with the applicant’s rights and had not constituted an “action of a public authority” (see paragraphs 17 and 18 below). on 5 november 2012 the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāts) quashed the ruling of the appeal court and remitted the case to the first-instance court. the senate of the supreme court found that the strip-searches had had a legitimate goal, namely ensuring public safety, and had not been carried out in an abusive manner. on 27 february and 11 april 2013 hearings took place before the first-instance court. in order to clarify the facts eleven witnesses – seven escorting officers and four prisoners – were called. on 13 may 2013 the administrative district court dismissed the applicant’s complaints and terminated the proceedings. as concerns the strip-searches carried out on 9 december 2009, 8 and 11 june 2010, the court, on the basis of witness testimony, found that the applicant had been searched in the presence of one inmate and at least one additional escorting officer. accordingly, the court could not establish a “significant violation” of the human rights guaranteed under article 95 of the constitution and article 3 of the convention. as concerns the strip-searches carried out on 22 february and 8 june 2011, the court found that the evidence did not support the applicant’s allegation that he had been searched in the presence of other persons. the court dismissed the applicant’s further allegations (the presence of female officers, being exposed to the court’s staff and passers-by, unsanitary touching of his food) as unsubstantiated. on 9 july 2013 the senate of the supreme court, by a final decision, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ruling of the lower court.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in novomoskovsk. at about 5.30 p.m. on 1 august 2004 a fight took place involving the applicant, z. and sh. on 15 november 2005 the novomoskovsk court convicted the applicant of gang hooliganism committed against z. and sh., and gave him a suspended prison sentence of three years. on 10 february and 19 december 2006 respectively the court of appeal and the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. in particular, he was punched, hit with a gas pistol and kicked in the head and torso and as a result briefly lost consciousness. the applicant was also diagnosed with concussion. during subsequent examinations by a forensic expert in december 2004 and april 2006, the applicant was found to have developed post-traumatic otitis media. the applicant’s injuries were classified as being partly minor and partly moderate. on 1 august 2004 the applicant filed a complaint with the novomoskovsk police, seeking to have criminal proceedings instituted against those who had beaten him. the applicant’s complaint was examined initially by the police and later by prosecutors. between december 2004 and march 2009 they issued a number of decisions rejecting the applicant’s complaint, finding, inter alia, that the applicant had been injured after disobeying the lawful orders of the volunteer citizen guards, who had lawfully resorted to force in order to take him to a police station in relation to the incident of 1 august 2004 (see paragraph 5 above). those decisions were overturned by different courts, which considered, principally, that the applicant’s complaint had not been examined thoroughly. on 12 march 2009 the novomoskovsk prosecutor opened criminal proceedings related to the applicant’s complaint and ordered the police to investigate the incident of 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s house. in the course of the investigation the two volunteer citizen guards who had taken part in the incident on 1 august 2004 at the applicant’s house died. for that reason, the proceedings concerning those two people were terminated on 17 july 2009. on the same date the police terminated the proceedings concerning z. and sh., finding that there had been no elements of a crime in their actions. the police noted that two witnesses had stated that the volunteer citizen guards who had died had beaten the applicant on 1 august 2004. no further investigation was carried out.
ms n. zīmele, the applicant’s grandmother, informed the court of her wish to pursue the proceedings on his behalf. the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in july and august 2011 the police opened four criminal investigations into three incidents of theft and an incident of robbery. on 29 august 2011 these investigations were joined. on 12 august 2011 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of robbery. he was held in custody on this basis until 14 august 2011, when he was placed under arrest on suspicion of theft. on 16 august 2011 an investigating judge granted the application. with regard to the suspicion of theft, he reasoned as follows:“there are reasons to suspect that [the applicant] has committed the crime under section 175(3) of the criminal law (krimināllikums) [theft] ... these suspicions are confirmed by the evidence gathered in the criminal case.” on 18 august 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision. on 2 september 2011 the latgale regional court (latgales apgabaltiesa) dismissed the appeal. no appeal lay against the aforementioned decision. on 26 september 2011 the applicant familiarised himself with the case material. on 28 september 2011 the prosecutor transferred the case to the ludza district court for adjudication. she set out the case against the applicant and detailed the evidence upon which the prosecution intended to rely. on 17 october 2011 the investigating judge decided to keep the applicant in detention. on 28 december 2011 and 23 april 2012 the applicant’s detention was extended. on 3 february, 19 june and 6 august 2012, the applicant complained to the ludza district court that it had failed to assess his detention in relation to the alleged robbery. on 6 august and 2 november 2012, and on 25 january 2013 the judge decided to continue the applicant’s detention, using largely the same wording as in the previous decisions. in addition, she noted that the twenty-four-month period allowed by section 277(7) of the criminal procedure law (kriminālprocesa likums) for detention had been observed because the applicant had also been accused of an especially serious offence, robbery, under section 176(2) of the criminal law. the aforementioned decisions were not subject to appeal.
on 9 june 2004, the applicant, 69 at the time, was walking in the centre of kharkiv and was hit in the face by a pellet fired from an air gun. the applicant was admitted to hospital the same day and the pellet was removed from her face. it was subsequently seized as evidence by the police. the doctors noted in the applicant’s medical file that she had a gunshot wound on the infraorbital region of her face. later that day she lodged a criminal complaint with the police. the applicant alleged that the shot had been fired from a particular flat in a building in the centre of kharkiv. from 10 to 26 june 2004 the applicant underwent outpatient medical treatment for her injury. on 2 july 2004, at the request of the police, she was examined by an expert, who concluded that the applicant’s injury was of a minor degree and might have been caused by a gunshot. on 31 october 2005 the applicant underwent an additional medical examination, which confirmed the previous conclusion. by decisions of 22 march and 8 december 2005 and 9 august 2006, the police refused to open criminal proceedings, stating that it was not possible to identify the offenders and that the applicant’s allegations that the shot had been fired from a particular location were unfounded. they further found that there had been no serious breach of public order in the applicant’s case and noted that the applicant could have lodged a criminal complaint directly with a court in the framework of private prosecution proceedings. despite her repeated requests, the applicant was not given access to the police investigation file related to the incident of 9 june 2004. on appeal by the applicant, those decisions were annulled by different prosecutors and the courts generally on the grounds that the police enquiry had fallen short of the requirements of a full and objective examination of the circumstances of the case. it was noted that the police had failed to examine the relevant evidence, including the pellet, and that the case contained elements of the crime defined by article 296 of the criminal code (hooliganism). in particular, on 21 august 2007 the dzerzhynskyy district court of kharkiv ruled that the case should be returned to the prosecutors for further investigation. no further investigation was carried out after that date. by a letter of 21 august 2009, the deputy prosecutor of the dzerzhynskyy district of kharkiv informed the applicant that the investigation case file had gone missing. there is no information as to any further developments in that regard. her death was unrelated to the incident of 9 june 2004.
from 20 january 2006 onwards the tax agency (skatteverket) conducted audits of value-added tax, employers’ social security contributions (arbetsgivaravgifter) and income tax at the three swedish companies ergonia sweden ab, sns-lan trading ab (“sns”) and mouse trapper nordic ab. present were mr carl lindstrand, a lawyer of the applicant law firm, representing mr jurik (who was at the time in switzerland), and – towards the end of the search – mr roland möller, who, as an associate of the law firm, had been the liquidator of sns and who was also the designated person to be served writs on behalf of draupner in sweden. during the search of the flat, material of interest that belonged to draupner was found. this was specified in a report drawn up and submitted to the parties concerned the same day by the enforcement authority. the issue of possible exemption of documents was discussed and the representative was given a list of the officers attending. the agency stated as reasons for its decision that draupner had had transactions connected to sns, its subsidiary company, that there had been special reasons to search for material at the applicant law firm as two of draupner’s representatives, mr jurik and mr möller, had offices there and that the risk of corruption of material was acute in view of the fact that, during the ongoing enforcement, it had become apparent to persons involved which transactions and connected documents were to be examined. by a judgment of 26 march 2008 the interim decision was confirmed by the court, which found that the seizure of the documents at issue had been justified. it mentioned, in particular, the external hard disk drive and the usb memory stick. by a judgment of 22 august 2008 the administrative court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and agreed with the lower court that the applicant did not have legal standing concerning the requested exemption of documents, as the coercive measures had not been directed against the law firm. the applicant made a further appeal, stating, among other things, that the tax agency’s original interim decision of 14 march 2008 concerning draupner and the county administrative court’s judgment of 26 march 2008 confirming that decision had been directed against the law firm because they allowed a search in the firm’s offices. moreover, the coercive measures employed had led to the seizure of material which allegedly belonged to the applicant and could contain information covered by attorney-client privilege. she was also a civil servant at the tax agency, albeit formally on leave of absence while temporarily serving with the court. on 14 may 2008 the administrative court of appeal, sitting in a different formation, rejected the objection, noting that the co-opted member was on leave from her post at the tax agency. it stated that draupner was the subject of a tax audit and that all electronic or paper documents linked to the company’s business found on its premises should be considered as belonging to it and being eligible for examination in the audit. the county administrative court then directed draupner to specify its request in greater detail, which the company did. by a judgment of 14 september 2009 the court rejected the company’s requests for an oral hearing and an inspection of the flat but granted that a few seized documents be exempted from examination by the tax agency, as they were considered to be mr jurik’s private documents. draupner agreed that 17 of the 19 files seized on 14 march 2008 could be handed over to the tax agency for examination, following which the request for exemption concerned the remaining material seized and copied on that day. the tax agency requested that it be allowed to examine deleted and reconstructed data files. on 15 november 2010 the supreme administrative court refused draupner leave to appeal. like sns, draupner has since been liquidated.
the first applicant, ms lia shioshvili, was born in 1977 and lives in gurjaani (georgia). after a period of custody in police stations, they were grouped together and taken by bus to a court, which summarily imposed administrative penalties on them and gave decisions ordering their administrative expulsion from russian territory. on 29 may 1998 the first applicant, her husband and her two children arrived in the russian federation for the first time. at that time there was no visa requirement for georgian citizens in place. owing to the absence of visa documents the officer asked all applicants to follow him to the local police station, where an administrative offence report was drawn up. the first applicant was eight months pregnant at the material time and her four minor children were eleven, nine, six and two years old. a)  the applicants’ version of the subsequent events 19. according to the applicants their train was stopped by russian migration officers on 22 november 2006 at approximately 10.30 pm near the russian/azerbaijani border and all georgian nationals were asked to get off the train with their belongings. two migration officers escorted the group but would not inform them of the authorities’ intention nor where the group was being taken. in particular, since she had to carry a suitcase and her youngest child. her oral complaints to the officers about these circumstances were of no avail. they were subsequently sent back to derbent. on 3 and 4 december 2006, after having gone back and forth to the migration service office, and with the help of an employee from the consulate service of the georgian embassy in moscow, the first applicant finally obtained transit visa for her children and all other necessary documents, so that all five applicants could leave for georgia. according to the government the border control services, which conducted immigration controls in the trains going to the republic of azerbaijan, did not bring any georgian nationals to the migration services on 22 or 23 november 2006. according to the testimony of the house owners the first applicant lived there free of charge, was not accompanied by children and no police officer or other official visited the first applicant in the house. on 5 december 2006 a group of 30 georgians, including the applicants, travelled to the russian/azerbaijani border in two buses that they had hired. with another bus the group travelled through the city of baku to the azerbaijani/georgian border. she suffered from a severe cough and fever, her right leg had grown numb and her general condition was extremely weak. the birth history no 364/12, issued on the same date, stated that “the stress experienced by the pregnant mother during the expulsion could be considered a reason for the child’s death”. however, he received no further information from the russian authorities.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in kutina. whereby they sold him a house in kutina for 47,000 german marks (dem). because the applicant actually paid only dem 30,000 they brought a civil action against him in the kutina municipal court (općinski sud u kutini) seeking payment of the remaining dem 17,000. specifically, they sought (a) the equivalent of 8,691.96 euros (eur) in croatian kunas (hrk), together with accrued statutory default interest running from 15 december 1989, (b) the costs of the above civil proceedings in the amount of hrk 1,860, together with accrued statutory default interest (running from 20 may 1994), and (c) the costs of the enforcement proceedings. in so doing it relied on section 97(4) of the 1996 enforcement act, as amended in 1999, (hereinafter “the 1999 amendments”) under which at a third public auction a debtor’s immovable property could be sold without restrictions regarding the lowest price (see paragraphs 25-26 below). at a third public auction, held on 10 december 2008, the enforcement court sold the applicant’s house and awarded it to a certain mr d.d. ...by having sold for hrk 50,000 a property [worth] hrk 384,197, the first-instance court evidently misinterpreted ... [section 97(4) of the enforcement act]. that is so because the rule contained in section 97(4) is not of a mandatory nature [ius cogens], as it merely allows that property ... to be sold at a third public auction without restrictions regarding the lowest price ... (the text of that provision literally reads ‘ ... may be sold ...’ ). ... the enforcement court has to interpret the said provision in the light of the basic principles of [enforcement] procedure, as well as in accordance with the purpose sought to be achieved by the proceedings. by selling for hrk 50,000 property [worth] hrk 384,197 and awarding it to the buyer, the first-instance court breached section 6 of the enforcement act, which imposes the duty on an enforcement court, in carrying out an enforcement, to respect the debtor’s dignity and make [the enforcement] the least onerous for him or her. furthermore, the purpose of enforcement proceedings is to settle the claim of an enforcement creditor. accordingly, by a decision of 3 june 2009 the court awarded the applicant’s house to d.d. the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that his house had been sold for less than one-fifth of its value, which had not been sufficient to settle the creditors’ claim in full. by a decision of 20 december 2010 the sisak county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 3 june 2009 to award the applicant’s house to d.d. ( the relevant part of the county court’s decision, which was served on the applicant’s representative on 12 january 2011, reads:“it is not disputed that on 3 june 2009 a third public auction was held, at which the debtor’s property was sold for hrk 70,000. on 11 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint alleging violations of his right to equality before the law and his right of ownership, as guaranteed by article 14 paragraph 2 and article 48 of the croatian constitution (see paragraph 22 below). in so doing he repeated, in substance, the arguments raised in his appeal. that decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 6 june 2011. meanwhile, by a decision of 14 february 2011 the enforcement court distributed the proceeds of the sale to the enforcement creditors, and by a decision of 18 may 2011 ordered the applicant’s eviction from the house. the applicant’s appeals against those decisions were dismissed by the sisak county court.
the applicant is a community of owners of a building located in madrid. on 13 june 1991 l., the co-owner of a house located next to the applicant’s building, filed a complaint before the madrid municipality, complaining that a dividing wall belonging to the applicant’s building and two other buildings located next to it was in poor condition. on 25 april 1994, in view of the “serious risk of harm” posed by the poor condition of the wall, the municipality repaired it motu proprio. on 30 august 1994 the applicant received a decree issued by the municipality on 29 july 1994, informing it that the repairs had been carried out in view of the “serious risk of harm” posed by the condition of wall in question, and ordering it to pay a provisional amount of 18,030.36 euros (eur). on 21 october 1994 the applicant initiated proceedings opposing the municipality’s demand, contesting the necessity of the urgent repairs. on 29 october 1994, before the madrid high court of justice, the applicant brought a first set of judicial administrative proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo) against the decree of 29 july 1994, complaining of the shortcomings of the procedure which had led to the municipality repairing the wall. on 18 march 1996 the municipality asked the applicant to pay the remainder of the amount owed: the final cost of the repairs minus the amount already paid as a provisional amount. on 16 july 1996, before the madrid high court of justice, the applicant initiated a second set of judicial administrative proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo), contesting the amount of the requested payment and asking for a suspension of its obligation to pay that amount. on 20 november 1996 the application to suspend its obligation to pay was rejected. that decision was confirmed by the madrid high court of justice and the supreme court on 11 july 1997 and 23 february 2001 respectively. on 6 march 1998 both sets of judicial administrative proceedings were joined. on 9 december 2004 the madrid high court of justice ruled against the applicant, on the grounds that the repairs had been carried out by the municipality in view of the poor condition of the wall and the “serious risk of harm” present at that time, which had given the municipality no other choice but to repair it and then ask the applicant for payment in respect of the costs incurred. the madrid high court of justice also confirmed the amount set for the costs of the repairs. on 3 march 2005 the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court, which was declared inadmissible more than four years later on 29 may 2009. this decision was served on the applicant on 9 june 2009. on 10 december 2009 the applicant lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court. on 31 january 2010 the community of owners agreed to authorise mr. garcía caballero to act on its behalf in the framework of the judicial proceedings concerning the costs of the repairs to the wall. by a decision of 28 april 2010 the constitutional court declared the amparo appeal inadmissible on the grounds that “the constitutional significance of the appeal had not been justified”. this decision was served on the applicant on 6 may 2010.
during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces and at their homes. on 5 october 2006 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow fined the applicant (rub 1,000) for failure to observe the applicable registration procedure and ordered his administrative expulsion from the russian federation. the applicant entered the territory of the russian federation on 12 august 2006 on a multiple entry business visa. the applicant entered the russian federation on an unknown date on a multi-entry business visa, valid until 15 august 2007. on 11 october 2006 the applicant was apprehended by police officers for an inspection of her identity documents and was brought to the vykhino police station in moscow, where she was subsequently detained. on 13 october 2006 the applicant was transferred to the centre for temporary detention of aliens no. 2, where she was detained until her expulsion. the applicant had lived in moscow since 1992. the first applicant had a visa valid from 8 may 2006 until 7 may 2007. he had a visa valid until 30 august 2007 and a registration certificate that had expired on 18 september 2006. 1, where he was detained until his expulsion. on 28 october 2006 the applicant was brought by bus to demododova airport and was flown to georgia. on 27 september 2006 she was apprehended by police officers in a grocery store, and, after her identity papers had been checked and an administrative report had been drawn up, the applicant was released. (h)  kakha tsihistavi (born on 24 february 1983) 24. (i)  koba norakidze (born on 17 april 1969) 25. on 6 october 2006 the litkarinskiy town court of moscow region discontinued proceedings against the applicant for not observing the applicable registration procedure. on 23 october 2006 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow fined the applicant (rub 1,000) for not observing the applicable registration procedure. the applicant arrived in the russian federation in 1993 for the first time. the exact circumstances and dates of the applicant’s arrest, detention, court decision and expulsion are matters of contention (see paragraphs 67-70 below). the conditions of detention in the different places of detention are a matter of contention (see paragraphs 111-112 below).
on 26 march 2004 the applicant acquired an apartment in housing cooperative (“borettslag”) x. at her request, on 29 march 2004 its governing board (hereinafter “the board”) approved the applicant’s acquisition. on 2 september 2008, the board held a meeting. mr a did not lodge an appeal against his above conviction and sentence which thus became final. in an additional indictment of 14 april 2008, mr a was charged under the same provision as follows:“at around 18h15 on saturday, 12 january 2008, in the staircase of the garage building of z street 14c, oslo, he hit and/or pushed mr d.h. the city court sentenced mr a to eighteen days’ imprisonment. the condition for requiring sale was that the owner of the part in question had “substantially defaulted” his or her obligations (“misheld pliktene sine vesentleg”). it was only after the housing cooperative x’s request to the applicant of 19 may 2004 for confirmation that mr a would not move to the estate that attorney b. had responded in the affirmative by letter of 26 may 2004. both the board’s approval and her confirmation had dated approximately six years back in time and it was only at present that she for the first time had alleged that the housing cooperative had forced her to make the said declaration by threatening to take unlawful action. also in this judgment it had been found proven that mr a had generally behaved in an intensive and intrusive manner. he was moreover inclined to block the passage of people he wanted to talk to and had a low threshold for taking one step further and grab or push people. despite her own confirmation that she moved in alone, the applicant had let her son live in the apartment with all the problems this had caused to other occupants. by a decision of 5 august 2010 the high court rejected her appeal. as regards the applicant’s allegations that the imposition of compulsory sale suffered from deficiencies, the high court found it clear that the board’s decision provided an adequate basis for notifying her of the measure in accordance with section 5-22 of the housing cooperative act. in that event, as also assumed by the city court, it was obvious that there was a possibility to opt for the less intrusive measure, namely the imposition of an order to sell the flat. more than this could not be required, bearing in mind especially the long historical background to the case. having reached this conclusion, the high court found it unnecessary to examine whether mr a’s moving into the applicant’s flat contrary to the declaration made on her behalf by attorney b on 26 may 2004 amounted to serious default in the sense of the housing cooperative act. nor could the applicant succeed with her argument that the conditions had subsequently improved. it was not difficult to see the sad side to hers having to move and, for that matter, even in the situation of her son. on 5 december 2012 the court of the office of the city recorder warned the applicant that, as previously announced on 22 october 2012, he had decided to take the necessary steps to have her evicted from the flat on 18 december 2012 at 10 a.m., should she not voluntarily vacate the premises. the government also suggested that the application be struck out.
the first applicant, mr j. maxian, was born in 1949. the second applicant, ms i. maxianová, was born in 1965. they are spouses and live in vienna, austria. a number of those sets of proceedings were interrelated and were often stayed pending the outcome of another set of proceedings concerning related matters. during the main proceedings, the applicants were involved in two other separate sets of auxiliary proceedings held before the same court (see paragraphs 18 to 21). owing to a dispute over the aforesaid real property in the context of these two sets of auxiliary proceedings, the main proceedings were stayed on two occasions. on 16 may 2005 the district court issued a payment order which was challenged by the defendants. subsequently, the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law to no avail. between 9 september and 1 december 2008 the district court monitored the first set of auxiliary proceedings and once those were finalised it resumed the main proceedings on 20 march 2009. the district court then dealt with the applicants’ applications to modify the claim, it ordered the taking of expert evidence, scheduled a number of hearings, and traced the defendants’ whereabouts in order to serve the court documents on them since they were continually changing address. on 17 september 2012 the district court stayed the proceedings for the second time pending the outcome of the second set of auxiliary proceedings (see paragraph 21). the main proceedings have not been resumed since their interruption. however, the district court has regularly monitored their state. on 7 september 2010 the constitutional court (file no. i. ús 291/2010) rejected their first complaint as manifestly ill-founded on the grounds that the proceedings had been stayed between 2006 and 2009 pending the outcome of the first set of auxiliary proceedings. it also found that the applicants had contributed to the delays by making five applications to modify the particulars of their claim. it noted that the district court had been obliged to find the defendants’ address. it also noted that they had failed to raise some of their arguments about the alleged unfairness and the lack of reasoning before the lower courts, in particular before the appellate court. the judgment dismissing that claim became final on 10 november 2008. the second set of auxiliary proceedings commenced on 14 march 2011 and once again related to a dispute over the validity of the purchase agreement concerning the aforesaid real property (file no.
during the period from the end of september 2006 to the end of january 2007 identity checks of georgian nationals residing in russia were carried out in the streets, markets and other workplaces and at their homes. after a period of custody in police stations, they were grouped together and taken by bus to a court, which summarily imposed administrative penalties on them and gave decisions ordering their administrative expulsion from russian territory. in may 2006 the applicant returned to georgia because her visa had expired. a re-examination the same day showed that his temperature was back to normal. prior to entering the bus the detainees and their belongings were searched. on the way to the airport the bus stopped five times to let people, allegedly for a bribe, use the toilet and purchase food. exiting the bus was closely monitored by the accompanying police officers. mr pataridze indicated that when mr togonidze had got off the bus he had seen that he was very ill and was “suffocating like a fish out of water” and begging to be allowed to breathe fresh air. based on these findings the bureau of forensic medical examination of the moscow health department finally concluded that mr togonidze had died of methadone poisoning. on 15 december 2006 the federal migration service challenged the allegation that mr togonidze had died of methadone poisoning, saying that he had died of tuberculosis. on 20 december 2006 a criminal investigation was initiated against an unknown person for selling methadone to mr togonidze at an unknown date and unknown location. on 14 august 2007 the criminal proceedings were dismissed again and the dismissal was quashed on 11 december 2007. a subsequent request to quash the dismissal was denied on 14 february 2008 and confirmed on 1 september 2010. the experts pointed out that the russian authorities gave the cause of death as methadone intoxication based on the fact that methadone was detected in the blood and urine of mr togonidze and that he had three injection marks on his body. as regards the needle punctures they pointed out that the injection mark at the bend of the left elbow stemmed most probably from the resuscitation attempts at the airport, in which intravenous drugs were given, and that the other two marks, on the lower third of the left shoulder, appear as a very unusual site for self-injection of drugs. they further indicated that methadone is usually taken in liquid form and only very uncommonly by injection. being a sedative, people dying from methadone intoxication typically do so after a period of unconsciousness. as regards the forensic chemical examination the experts indicated that the applied analyses appear not to have been carried out according to international recommendations and that the level of methadone was only measured in the urine and not in the blood. the deterioration of his health, however, would have been noticeable, as he would have been unwell and showed signs such as wheezing and coughing. a timely hospitalisation and antibiotic treatment would have been the correct course of action.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in sumgayit. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. according to the applicant, following his arrest by the police on 6 march 2010, he was taken to the police office, where he was detained in various rooms. on 10 march 2010 the applicant met his lawyer for the first time when he was brought before the sumgayit city court. he also asked the investigator to question the applicant and organise a formal face-to-face confrontation between the applicant and the other co-accused in his presence. following a conversation between the applicant and agents from the ombudsman’s office in a temporary detention centre, on 22 april 2010 the ombudsman requested that the prosecutor general’s office carry out a forensic examination of the applicant and conduct an effective investigation into his allegation of ill-treatment. he concluded that the injury had been caused by a hard blunt object, and could have been inflicted on 6 march 2010. he also claimed that, although numerous injuries were still visible on the applicant’s body, the expert had noted only one injury in his report. on 26 may 2010 the investigator granted the request and ordered a new forensic examination of the applicant. he held that it had not been established that the applicant had been beaten by the police officers, or that the injury found on his left wrist joint had been caused by them while he was in police custody. although the police officers denied the ill-treatment allegation, the investigator who had replaced the first investigator in charge of the case stated that he had also noticed the signs of a beating on the applicant’s body during his questioning. the court further found that the applicant had been unlawfully detained in the police office, and that he had been questioned by the investigator in the absence of his lawyer. during the examination the applicant stated that he had been tortured in police custody, and gave a detailed description of his ill-treatment. the appellate court’s reasoning was essentially the same as that in the first-instance court’s decision. on 3 june 2010 the sumgayit city court again extended the applicant’s detention for a period of one month. on 21 july 2010 the investigator issued a bill of indictment under article 234.1 of the criminal code and filed it with the sumgayit city court. under domestic law, a decision taken at a preliminary hearing was not open to appeal. on 23 august 2010 the sumgayit court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor’s objection and upheld the first-instance court’s decision. in the meantime, following the applicant’s release from detention, on 25 august 2010 the investigator in charge had issued a decision placing the applicant under police supervision (polisin nəzarəti altına vermə). the decision did not detail the duration of that preventive measure.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in samara. from 17 to 26 december 2004 the police intercepted the applicant’s mobile telephone calls. on 28 december 2004, in response to a complaint by the applicant, the investigator looking into the matter noted that the applicant had resisted arrest and that the police officers had had to use force on him. on 30 december 2004 the applicant was charged with multiple car thefts. on 27 february 2006 the samara regional court fixed the trial for 13 march 2006. as regards the interception of the defendants’ mobile telephone calls, the court noted as follows:“it is clear from the material in the case file that the regional court authorised the interception of the [defendants’] telephone communications ...pursuant to [the applicable legislation], information about covert operational and search activities is classified as a state secret. from 31 december 2004 to 8 september 2007 and from 26 december 2007 to 14 january 2008 the applicant was detained in remand prison sizo-1 in samara. (a)  description provided by the government 23. their submissions can be summarised as follows:period of detentioncell no. m)number of inmatesnumber of bedsfrom 31 december 2004 to 1 march 20058 24. the distance from the toilet to the dining table was at least 1.5 m.(b)  description provided by the applicant 26. (c)  description provided by other inmates 28. the cell was dirty, damp and infested with cockroaches, bedbugs and lice. the inmates often suffered from colds and scabies. the number of beds was insufficient and the inmates had to take turns to sleep. the toilet was 1.5 m away from the dining table. the distance between the remand prison and the court-house was approximately 9-10 km and the travel time was less than one hour. the applicant was transported over 58 times from his remand prison to court and back. m with another fifteen to thirty inmates. it was impossible to use the toilet during the journey.
the facts of the applications, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the first applicant was born in 1967 and lives in perm. on 6 may 2003 the first applicant was stopped by a customs officer at a moscow international airport and found to be in possession of 10,200 euros (eur) and 8,755 us dollars[1] (usd) which he failed to report on his customs declaration. on 4 december 2003 the golovinskiy district court in moscow convicted the first applicant of smuggling and issued a confiscation order in respect of the foreign currency he had carried on him. on 5 february 2004 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal. further to an application from a deputy moscow prosecutor, on 5 december 2008 the presidium of the moscow city court amended the judgment. noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation order and ordered the confiscated money to be refunded to the first applicant. on 3 june 2009 the amount of 628,750 russian roubles (rub)[2] was credited into the first applicant’s bank account. the first applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking to recover the interest accrued on the retained amount during the period from 6 may 2003 to 3 june 2009, which he assessed at rub 458,777. on 25 august 2009 the tverskoy district court in moscow granted his claim in part. it awarded the first applicant rub 11,719.20[3] in respect of the period from 2 april 2009 when his representative had submitted the bank details to the ministry of finance until 3 june 2009 when the transfer had been made. the district court did not say anything about the part of the claim concerning the previous six-year period. the second and third applicants were born in 1967 and 1971 respectively and live in graz, austria. on 11 october 2004 the customs officer at a moscow international airport stopped the second and third applicants as they were carrying eur 14,600 and 14,980 euros in cash, respectively, which they had not reported on their customs declarations. on 14 and 16 february 2006 the golovinskiy district court in moscow found the second and third applicants guilty as charged and issued confiscation orders. on 10 april 2006 the moscow city court upheld the conviction on appeal. on an application from a deputy moscow prosecutor, on 26 august 2011 the presidium of the moscow city court amended the judgments in respect of the second and third applicants. noting that there was no evidence that the confiscated currency had been the instrument of a crime or had been criminally acquired, it cancelled the confiscation orders and ordered to refund rub 526,471.62 to ms sumann and rub 540,174.30 to mr sumann.[4]
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in dębowa kłoda. in january 2005 he moved out of the flat he had lived in with r. 8. on 25 september 2006 the applicant filed a petition for divorce. at first he requested a no-fault divorce. he admitted that he had moved out of the matrimonial home, but did not mention his involvement with a new partner. at a hearing held on 15 november 2006 the applicant refused to undergo the mediation process provided for by divorce law. subsequently, the applicant requested a divorce on fault‑based grounds. during the proceedings thirteen witnesses were heard. most of them were of the opinion that the marriage seemed happy until autumn 2004. the court held that he was the only person responsible for the breakdown of his marriage because he had failed to respect the obligation of fidelity. it observed that until 2004 the applicant had not wanted children. he had no longer wished to have a child with his wife. the court noted contradictions between the testimony given by the applicant, who had referred to the alleged serious problems in marital life prior to 2004 on the one hand, and the decision to treat r.’s infertility in summer 2004 on the other. the respondent had been shocked by the applicant’s unfaithfulness and had been treated for depression since autumn 2004. reconciliation was unlikely as the applicant had consistently rejected all attempts made by r. to reconcile their differences. moreover, he had been in a relationship with a.h. the court emphasised that she had repeatedly stated during the proceedings that she was ready to reconcile with him despite the fact that he had a child with another woman. the applicant appealed against the judgment. the court should have examined the negative social consequences caused by continuing the formal existence of failed marriages. the applicant did not request to be served with the written grounds for the appellate judgment.
the applicants are owners or co-owners of residential buildings which comprise flats that were or still are subject to rent control. under the relevant legislation they had to accept that the flats were occupied by tenants with a regulated rent and that they could charge them no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state. the situation of the applicants is structurally and contextually the same as in bittó and others v. slovakia (no. 19294/07; bukovčanová and others v. slovakia, no. by extension, that disagreement translates into an argument over the proportion of the market rent that the regulated rent represents. in that connection, the government submitted an expert’s opinion drawn up in 2010 in relation to all four applications (“the government’s expert opinion”), according to which the monthly free-market rent for flats comparable to the applicants’ was between 6.13 and 6.48 euro (eur) per sq. m in the municipality of bratislava-staré mesto and eur 5.05 and 5.35 per sq. m in the municipality of bratislava-nivy. m. according to those calculations therefore, the regulated rent of the flats possessed by the applicants corresponded to some 14-26% of the market rent in 2010. the relevant data are set out in appendixes 2‑5 (columns g‑i). the data submitted by them are set out below separately in relation to each application. the applicants maintained that in 2007 the regulated rent ranged between eur 76 and 84 a month whereas the average free-market rent for comparable flats in a similar location was eur 956 a month. they submitted an expert’s opinion which showed that the difference between the general rental value of the property and the regulated rent they actually received was eur 88,431.53 for the period between 2000 and 2011. they relied on data from the national association of real estate agencies (“the narea”). they further submitted that the sum which they and the other co‑owners had invested in repairing the building was ten times the income they obtained from letting the flats under the rent‑control scheme. in 2008 the applicant was allowed to charge a monthly rent of eur 40 to 60 for each of his flats. he submitted that the market rent in the same area in 2005 was between eur 305 and eur 366 a month for the single-room flat and between eur 396 and eur 488 a month for the two-room flats. he relied on information about average rental prices published in the press. the applicants submitted that the regulated rent for their flats ranged between eur 38.5 and 104 a month in 2010. relying on data from the narea, they maintained that the market rent for comparable flats in the area amounted to approximately eur 616 a month.
the applicant was born in 1980 in tetovo and lives in golema rečica in the municipality of tetovo in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia”. he arrived in switzerland in 1989 via family reunification and was granted a permanent residence permit. on 13 march 2003 the zurich district court convicted the applicant of embezzlement for having sold a rental car to a third person in september 2000 and gave him a suspended sentence of three months’ imprisonment. that court took the view that the applicant, by agreeing to engage in the race, had deliberately taken the risk of killing him. on 25 april 2006 the applicant started serving his sentence. b of the federal act on foreign nationals (ausländergesetz, aug, see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27 below) were met. after considering the circumstances of the case, it concluded that the public interest in the applicant’s removal outweighed his interest in enjoying his family life with his wife and children in switzerland. it ordered his expulsion pursuant to article 66 § 1 of the federal act on foreign nationals. on 10 february 2010 the administrative court of the canton of zurich dismissed the applicant’s appeal lodged on 20 october 2009. on 27 july 2010 the federal supreme court dismissed the appeal. while it acknowledged that he had lived in switzerland for over twenty years, which had thus become the centre of his life, it found that he was neither professionally nor socially integrated. it considered that he had no stable employment, but considerable debts. both he and his wife and children had benefitted significantly from social welfare. she knew albanian and visited the country annually on holiday. at the same time, she was not well integrated in switzerland as she did not undergo any professional training after leaving school, had received social welfare as from 2005 and only started to work in 2010. as far as their children were concerned, the court considered that they attended primary school and kindergarten, respectively, and were still of an adaptable age. on 14 may 2013 the federal administrative court, on the applicant’s appeal, reduced the duration of the re-entry ban to seven years due to proportionality considerations. it found that the conditions in article 67 §§ 2 lit. it considered that the offence committed by the applicant was particularly serious and that he continued to be a serious threat to public order, notwithstanding his mostly good behaviour since the commission of the offence and positive personality development. in august 2015, i.e. after almost four years, the applicant’s wife and children returned to switzerland to avoid the expiry of their permanent residence permit pursuant to article 61 § 2 of the federal act on foreign nationals (see relevant domestic law and practice paragraph 27) and because their socioeconomic living conditions in “the former yugoslav republic of macedonia” were difficult.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in the kyiv region. on 15 august 2006 the applicant got involved in a drunken brawl with a stranger and beat him to death. the date of his arrest cannot be established with certainty. according to the applicant, he was arrested on 20 august 2006. an internal police inquiry established the date as 22 august. the official arrest record gives the time and date of his arrest as 6.45 p.m. on 24 august. on 25 august 2006 the sovetskiy district court in omsk remanded the applicant in custody. on 28 december 2006 the applicant was convicted of murder and sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment in a high-security facility. on 21 january 2007 the applicant asked the prosecutor to investigate his allegation that police officers had beaten him up after his arrest. on 11 march 2008 the prosecutor refused institution of criminal proceedings. on the following day the decision was quashed and an additional inquiry was ordered. since then the investigative authorities and courts issued and subsequently quashed at least eight decisions to open criminal proceedings into the alleged ill-treatment. referring to the statements from three police officers and from the investigator all of whom denied any ill-treatment or intimidation, the decision of 31 december 2009 concluded that the applicant’s allegations were unsubstantiated because the expert had determined his injuries to have been caused no later than 21 august, that is to say, three days prior to his arrest. between 26 february 2007 and 30 october 2009 the applicant served the sentence in ik-9, a correctional institution in omsk. the dormitory was crammed and in a poor state of repair. on the latter date the applicant was transferred to ik-3 where he stayed until 26 march 2010. the dormitories in which the applicant slept were overcrowded, affording at times no more than 1.5-1.7 sq. the access of natural light was restricted by plastic film covering the windows. the toilets, located in a separate building, were equipped with 7 pans for 600 detainees. on 26 march 2010 the applicant was transferred to liu-2, a medical facility, where he appears to have stayed until the end of his sentence on 23 august 2015.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in krosno. from 29 april 1997 to 29 april 1999 he was employed by a polish company which was carrying out construction work in germany. on 19 june 2000 the opole regional court gave a partial judgment in which it established that the applicant was entitled to the rates of pay fixed in the employment contract. instead polish labour law was applicable. in the applicant’s opinion, the court’s finding that the applicant’s rates of pay were fixed in his employment contract was erroneous, because that contract did not contain any rates (only symbols which were not understood by the applicant). the court of appeal comprised three judges. he was not a judge rapporteur and he did not preside. it noted that a partial judgment could be delivered only when a part or some of the claims in a lawsuit had been sufficiently clarified for the decision. the regional court ordered the defendant company to pay the applicant the sum of 11,934 polish zlotys (pln) for unused leave. on 25 november 2004 the wrocław court of appeal dismissed the appeal. furthermore, the european union law did not apply retroactively to situations predating poland’s accession. the court reiterated that the applicant was entitled to the rates of pay fixed in his employment contract. on 28 march 2007 the applicant lodged a further cassation appeal with the supreme court. he averred that the opole regional court had disregarded the provisions of the labour code. besides, in his view, the court had disregarded the provisions of the applicable international agreement (see paragraphs 6 and 8 above), according to which the applicant’s rate of pay should have been comparable to that received by the german workers occupying the same positions. the court had also erred when refusing to allow certain requests for evidence to be taken. on 14 may 2008 the supreme court, sitting as a bench of three judges, dismissed the applicant’s cassation appeal. he sat on the bench of the supreme court. the supreme court noted that the appellate court, contrary to the applicant’s objection, had followed the interpretation of the applicable law expressed by the earlier judgment of the supreme court (pronounced on 29 november 2005) given in the same case. the supreme court stressed that in his cassation appeal the applicant raised the same complaint which had already been made in his earlier cassation appeal.
the applicant was born in 1988 in margilan, uzbekistan. on 5 september 2014 the applicant was charged in absentia with participation in the extremist religious movement hizb ut-tahrir al islami and activities threatening the constitutional order. on the same day the authorities ordered his pre-trial detention and issued an international search and arrest warrant bearing his name. on 24 december 2014 the applicant was arrested in moscow. on 26 december 2014 the cheremushkinskiy district court of moscow ordered and subsequently prolonged his detention. on 22 january 2015 the applicant was further charged with organising a local branch of hizb ut-tahri al islami in one of the regions of uzbekistan. on 23 january 2015 the uzbek prosecution authorities requested the applicant’s extradition on the above charges. the request included assurances regarding the proper treatment of the applicant, which were formulated in standard terms. on 21 may 2015 the applicant’s extradition in respect of certain charges was authorised by the deputy prosecutor general of the russian federation. the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, arguing that he belonged to a vulnerable group and therefore faced a real risk of treatment contrary to article 3 at the hands of the uzbek authorities. on 13 october 2015 his appeals were dismissed by a final decision of the supreme court of the russian federation. without reference to any relevant evidentiary material, the supreme court considered that the applicant’s claims were hypothetical and lacked specific indications regarding the level of risk, and observed that the situation in a requesting state might change over time. it also found that the assurances of the uzbek authorities were satisfactory. on 5 june 2015 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to persecution in uzbekistan on religious grounds. on 9 november 2015 his request was refused by a final administrative decision of the migration authorities. the applicant challenged this decision in the courts, referring inter alia to the risk of ill‑treatment. on 18 may 2016 his appeals were dismissed by a decision of moscow city court. on 25 december 2015 the meshchanskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s expulsion for violating the migration rules. on 16 february 2016 the applicant applied for temporary asylum. no information concerning the outcome of these proceedings was supplied by the parties.
the applicants were born in 1961, 1963 and 1966 respectively and live in the town of taganrog. on 2 july 2001 the neklinovskiy district court of the rostov region found the applicants guilty of various offences but declared that they need not serve their respective sentences because the case was time-barred. on 2 october 2001 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 31 january 2002 the presidium of the rostov regional court quashed by way of supervisory review the decisions of 2 july and 2 october 2001 and discontinued criminal proceedings against the applicants. it found that the courts had not been in a position to decide on the applicants’ guilt because the whole case had been time-barred. the applicants sued the ministry of finance of the russian federation for, among other things, compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage in connection with their prosecution. in its judgment of 1 march 2005 the taganrog town court of the rostov region rejected their claims. it reasoned as follows:“... the court finds that, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above‑mentioned crimes was established, the use of the measure of restraint was justified. this being so, the court has no reason to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of the non-pecuniary damage resulting from their unlawful detention and the obligation not to leave their usual place of residence. ...” on 11 may 2005 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment of 1 march 2005 on appeal. it stated that:“ ... the first instance court, in reaching its decision refusing to grant the applicants’ claims for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage, correctly assumed that the decision of the presidium of the rostov regional court dated 31 january 2002 cleared them of liability on non-exonerating grounds. in the court’s view, since the applicants’ guilt of the commission of the above-mentioned crimes was established, the application of the measure of restraint during the investigation was justified. the court’s conclusion is a correct one, made following the examination and proper assessment of the legally relevant circumstances of the case. ...”
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in białystok. he uses sign language to communicate with other people. in the course of the divorce proceedings, on 19 july 2007 the białystok regional court issued an interim decision on the applicant’s contact with his son. on 15 november 2007 the białystok regional court granted a decree of divorce without ascribing blame for the breakdown of the marriage. in its judgment the court also ruled that parental authority should be exercised by both parents and that the child should reside with the mother. the applicant was further ordered to pay child maintenance. it was the mother of the child who had obstructed his contact with the child and made the atmosphere unfriendly. did not have any emotional ties with his father and did not need contact with him. the child’s ties with the father were superficial and weak. the mother should cooperate with the father and support him in making his contact with the child more diverse. he suffered from a hearing impairment and used a hearing aid. the child required specialised medical care and followed a rehabilitation programme. ’s place of residence and without the mother being present. the court underlined that the applicant had not been fully availing himself of his rights to contact his son, as granted by the divorce judgment. it did not agree with the applicant that this constituted a discriminatory measure against him; rather, it constituted an objective and independent factor that hampered his communication with the child. the court noted that the neighbour was a familiar person to the child, since he had been regularly visiting the child’s family. he argued that the district court had failed to respect the principle of non-discrimination against deaf and mute persons by dismissing his application for unsupervised contact with his son. the applicant contested the lower court’s finding that the child’s paternal grandmother was a stranger to him; he argued that the child would not be exposed to stress in the event of contact without the mother’s presence and outside her home in view of the fact that the child attended nursery school and was cared by a neighbour a few times a week. on 23 november 2012 the białystok regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it dismissed the applicant’s counteraction.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is detained in saransk. on 3 august 2009 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the rape of a girl, who was also a minor. on 5 august 2009 the staroshaygovskiy district court of the mordovia republic remanded him in custody. he remained in pre-trial detention pending investigation and trial on the grounds that he was accused of a serious crime, might reoffend, abscond, destroy evidence, threaten witnesses, or interfere with the investigation. on 24 december 2010 the supreme court of the mordovia republic found him guilty as charged. on 4 october 2010 the applicant, acting for himself, submitted his first letter to the court. on 4 august and 4 october 2010 he provided two powers of attorney authorising mr frimu, one of his cellmates, to represent him before the court.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1978 respectively and live in basle. the first applicant, who was born in turkey, moved to switzerland at the age of 10. on completing a business-studies course in basle, he returned temporarily to turkey to attend classes in islamic studies; while there, he met the second applicant, who became his wife. she moved to switzerland in 1999 under the provisions for family reunion. when the present application was lodged she was on a training course to become a playgroup leader (spielgruppenleiterin). the first applicant speaks fluent swiss german. the present application concerns only the first two daughters. they were initially enrolled in the vogelsang primary school in basle. the eldest daughter subsequently attended an “orientation school” (orientierungsschule, between the primary and secondary levels). by a letter of 13 august 2008, the public education department of the canton of basle urban (erziehungsdepartement des kantons basel-stadt) advised the applicants that under section 91 (9) of the education act of the canton of basle urban (see paragraph 24 below), they were liable to a maximum fine of 1,000 swiss francs (chf) (around 923 euros (eur)) each if their daughters did not comply with the obligation to attend school. the applicants continued to refuse to send their daughters to the swimming lessons. on 4 may and 14 june 2010 the school authorities asked the head of the public education department to open fixed-penalty proceedings against the applicants. on 17 june 2010 the applicants were invited to comment again as part of those proceedings. drawing on its leading decision of 24 october 2008 (see federal supreme court judgment 135 i 79; paragraph 29 below), the federal supreme court, by a judgment of 7 march 2012, dismissed an appeal by the applicants, holding that the authorities’ refusal to exempt their daughters from mixed swimming lessons in primary school had not breached the applicants’ right to freedom of conscience and belief. it accepted that this refusal represented a breach of freedom of religion. it cited, firstly, section 22 of the education act of the canton of basle urban, which stated that gymnastics was one of the compulsory lessons in primary school, and section 139 of the same act, stating that at least three hours of the pupils’ weekly timetable was to be spent in physical education. the federal supreme court then pointed out that pupils could be exempted from lessons or from certain subjects, and any such decision was to be taken by the school authorities at the request of teachers or of persons responsible for the children’s education (section 66 (5) and (6) of the education act; see paragraph 24 below). it added that, under point 5.1 of that recommendation, exemption from swimming classes could only be granted to pupils who had reached the age of puberty. the federal supreme court accordingly concluded that the measure had a valid legal basis. the federal supreme court also found irrelevant the applicants’ argument that their children were receiving private swimming lessons, holding that what was at stake for the children was not simply learning to swim, but also submitting to the conditions surrounding the teaching itself (äussere bedingungen des unterrichts).
the applicants, dorina and viorel-aurel[2] ioniță, were born in 1976 and 1972 respectively and live in brăila. after surgery the child was immediately transferred to the intensive care unit. the child suffered a haemorrhage, causing blood to flood his lungs. a team of doctors tried to resuscitate him and clear his respiratory channels, but without any success. on 5 may 2006 the commission confirmed that the child’s death had occurred after surgery and had been caused by the blood that had blocked his airways and lungs. on 12 october 2006 the superior commission of the mina minovici forensic institute examined all the documents and approved the conclusions of the commission for confirmation and supervision of the iaşi forensic institute. although the committee concluded that there had been no direct link between the child’s death and the doctors’ medical conduct, it reprimanded both doctors for their failure to perform the necessary pre-surgical medical tests and to seek the applicants’ informed consent before surgery. an expert medical opinion was submitted to the committee and was used by it in reaching its final conclusions. they joined the criminal proceedings as civil parties. on 5 january 2007 the prosecutor’s office of the brăila district court decided to institute criminal proceedings against dr p.a. in spite of the fact that she had been repeatedly summoned, the investigating authorities were not able to question her as she had not been found. she had left her job at the brăila emergency hospital in january 2006. the iaşi forensic institute replied that a new forensic report could not be produced as the evidence examined had been sent by brăila forensic service to the mina minovici national forensic institute. submitted an extrajudicial expert report. the applicants gave evidence to the investigating authorities on 23 january 2008. and the investigating authorities submitted several questions for the forensic experts. a complaint by the applicants against the prosecutors’ decisions was allowed by the brăila district court on 25 february 2009. should have noticed the non-functioning catheter. did not give evidence before the court as, although summoned, she did not attend the hearings. he again contended that the doctors had not informed his family about the risks of surgery and in particular of the general anaesthetic and accordingly they had not given their informed consent.
on 27 june 2005 a criminal investigation was initiated into a theft allegedly committed by the applicant in the republic of uzbekistan. on 12 september 2005 an investigator ordered the applicant’s arrest and placed him on the list of fugitives. it appears that in the meantime the applicant moved to the russian town of perm. on 21 january 2007 he was arrested there. on 23 january 2007 a prosecutor issued a decision to detain the applicant pending resolution of the extradition request in his regard. the decision referred to article 61 of the convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters (signed in minsk on 22 january 1993 and amended on 28 march 1997, “the minsk convention”). it did not indicate that it was amenable to appeal. on 25 january 2007 the prosecutor wrote to the prison authorities asking them to hold the applicant in detention until further notice. on 19 february 2007 the uzbek authorities requested the applicant’s extradition. on 6 march 2007 the prosecutor applied to the court for authorisation of the applicant’s detention pending extradition. he again relied on article 61 of the minsk convention and articles 97‑101, 108 and 466 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure of russia (“the ccrp”). on 9 march 2007 the leninskiy district court of perm authorised the applicant’s detention pending extradition. the district court did not set a limit on the length of the applicant’s detention. on 27 march 2007 the perm regional court upheld the decision on appeal. no court subsequently reviewed or extended the applicant’s detention. it appears that on 10 july 2007 the applicant was handed over to the authorities of the republic of uzbekistan.
the applicants are the wife and daughter of mr ivan mirchev pashaliysky, who was killed on 2 june 2000 in an office situated in a hotel in sofia. he died as a result of suffering severe trauma to his brain, chest, torso and limbs, which led to irreversible damage to several of his vital organs. the trauma was caused by a number of kicks and punches and blows inflicted with different objects. that there was no problem, the security guard left. a friend and business partner of mr pashaliysky, threatening to kill them both if ch.m. failed to deliver an undisclosed sum of money to s.v. traces of the crime having been discovered on s.v. for the murder of ivan mirchev pashaliysky, which had been committed three days earlier. a prosecutor from the sofia city public prosecutor’s office found on 20 april 2001 that there were reasons for amending the indictment by applying a law providing for a heavier penalty. she also found that not all available evidence had been collected. the case file was sent to the sofia city court on an unspecified date in november 2003. at the start of the trial the defendant’s lawyer claimed that the indictment was defective because it did not contain a clear description of the offence with which the defendant had been charged; the lawyer sought, without success, the return of the case for further investigation. 2 of 2002 of the supreme court of cassation (see paragraph 21 below), he claimed that these procedural flaws were fundamental and that the court should have returned the case to the investigation stage. pashaliysky and the first-instance court, the sofia city court, opened fresh proceedings against him. the first two scheduled hearings were postponed because the defendant’s lawyer failed to appear. on 11 february 2009 the court recognised the second applicant as a civil party seeking non-pecuniary damages but refused to name both applicants as private prosecutors. subsequently, the presiding judge was elected president of the supreme administrative court as a result of which the trial stage was started anew. the inspectorate replied on 21 february 2012. on an unspecified later date the new presiding judge was sent back to the court from which she had been transferred and the case had to begin anew once again. guilty of murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in molodetske, in the donetsk region. how can he serve the district after having destroyed all the work in zolotarevka during his four years in office? he had no formal audiences, took decisions unilaterally, and was rude and impolite. and p. streets, and what did he spent it on? [he] removed all the metal parts from the boiler room in the kindergarten ... ;(3). with his knowledge, the century-old oak trees in the forest have been felled. ’s resignation from the district council. he should be expelled from the party of regions.” this text was followed by eleven signatures, with no indication of full names. mrs a. stated that she was one of the authors of the letter, and that she agreed with all the allegations contained in it. as the purported authors of the letter had signed it without indicating their full names or address details, it should have been disposed of without any follow-up as an anonymous application within the meaning of the citizens’ applications act. also submitted that the applicant had given him a photocopy of the disputed letter before the zolotarevka meeting, and had warned him about his intention to read it out. on 17 september 2007 the shaktarsk court declared that the applicant had been at fault in defaming g.sh., the applicant, represented by mr v. filipenko, appealed. moreover, the letter was not “anonymous”, given that mrs a. at least had claimed authorship. as regards the nature of the letter, it contained no false allegations of fact. there was also evidence in support of other factual allegations. critical assessment of those facts by some village inhabitants was not susceptible of proof and constituted reasonable value judgments on their part, for which the applicant could not be held responsible. on 3 december 2007 the donetsk regional court of appeal upheld the judgment of the shaktarsk court. furthermore, the trial court had rightly concluded that the applicant had not verified the accuracy of the accusations contained in the letter as required by article 302 of the civil code of ukraine, and had therefore been liable for disseminating defamatory statements against g.sh.
the applicants were born in 1984, 1988 and 1987 respectively. the third applicant left ukraine for ethiopia on 23 november 2014. no further details were given in this regard. the following is a summary of the events that led the applicants to seek asylum outside their countries of origin, as submitted by the applicants. the first applicant is an orthodox christian. the next day the applicants were discovered by the vessel crew. when the vessel was passing through the suez canal, the insurer tried to arrange with the egyptian authorities that the applicants could disembark in egypt, but the authorities refused the request. she discussed their situation with them and informed them of the asylum procedures in ukraine. z. left the vessel without raising any complaints. on 28 february 2012 the applicants, allegedly having been misled by the vessel’s captain who was acting on the instructions of the ukrainian border guards, signed type-written statements in english, according to which they had boarded the vessel with the aim of reaching sweden “in search of better living conditions” and that they did not “need the status of refugee, addition[al] [or] temporary protection in ukraine”. on 2 march 2012 z., acting on the applicants’ behalf, lodged with the court a request for interim measures to be imposed under rule 39 of the rules of court. she stated that the applicants risked removal to saudi arabia, for which the vessel was scheduled to depart on 3 march 2012. on the same day the court granted the request. they were allowed to disembark and to cross the state border. on 16 march 2012 the applicants were questioned by the migration authorities concerning their asylum applications. according to the applicants, during the questioning they were not provided with adequate translation or any explanation of the relevant regulations. it appears from their submissions that in 2014 the applicants lodged new asylum applications with the authorities. the unhcr helped him to organise the travel arrangements. he appealed to the odesa administrative court. the proceedings were eventually terminated as the second applicant died on 6 march 2015.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in lamlash. in 1966 the applicant founded a business which was later incorporated as arakin limited (“arakin”). in 1986 tods murray solicitors were retained in relation to those disputes. however, tods murray’s fees were not settled in full by arakin. the dispute gave rise to four sets of overlapping proceedings. the applicant sought to appear at hearings in early 2000, on arakin’s behalf. on 27 april 2007 the case was remitted to the outer house. the taxation proceeding were therefore at an end. on 21 april 2004 the inner house dismissed the application to appeal as incompetent since leave had not been obtained from the outer house. between 2004 and 2009 the amounts remained unpaid and the matter proceeded on the basis that the only issues to try were contained in the principal claim. on 10 december 2009, after an eight-day hearing, the court reserved judgment. this, the court said, was a matter for evidence appropriate for the subsequent factual hearing. the applicant appealed against the decision. on 3 march 2011 the inner house heard the appeal and refused it. on 11 may 2011 the outer house heard both parties and fixed a hearing on the facts. the applicant had repeated “scurrilous allegations” against partners in tods murray and the witnesses he had led had been of no assistance in determining the question before the court. the court also commented that the applicant had sought to revisit many points which had already been decided. tods murray applied for its costs and the applicant lodged various applications. the applicant did not appear at the hearing on 22 july 2013. the judge found in favour of tods murray on the issue of expenses at an enhanced, punitive rate of expenses in light of the applicant’s conduct.
the applicants were placed in menemeni police station in thessaloniki, either in pre-trial detention or serving prison sentences. at the time they submitted their application they had been detained for periods ranging from one to six months. the first six applicants were transferred to thessaloniki general detention facility on the following dates: applicant no. 4 was transferred on 11 february 2014, applicant no. the parties disputed the date on which applicant no. according to the material in the court’s possession, applicant no. 7 was still being detained in menemeni police station on 24 may 2014. the applicants alleged that menemeni police station had been entirely inappropriate for long periods of detention, as in their cases. 3 had measured 6 square metres and had accommodated five detainees. detainees had been confined to their cells and had not been allowed to spend time outside, which had affected their psychological health. they had had to ask permission from the guards to use the restroom. recreational activities had not been offered and cells had not been equipped with televisions. the police station had not had the necessary means to transfer detainees to a hospital in case of emergency. it had consisted of three cells: cell no. 2 had measured 23.3 square metres with four built-in beds and cell no. 3 had measured 26 square metres with five beds. the government affirmed that there had been two sanitary facilities with hot water outside the cells. in urgent cases, inmates had been transferred to local hospitals. on the contrary, according to the police station’s records, applicants nos. 4, 5 and 7 had been taken to local hospitals on various occasions.
the applicant was born in 1970 in rafah, gaza. in 1993 the applicant went to ukraine to study. in march 2013 the applicant entered into a relationship with another ukrainian national. the applicant visited gaza twice in 2000. according to the applicant, one of the visits was due to his father’s death. since december 2000 the applicant has remained in ukraine without leaving its territory. the government contested that submission, stating that no extension had been granted. the documents have not been returned to the applicant. subsequently the applicant contacted a lawyer, who helped him to obtain copies of the decisions concerning his expulsion and to lodge an appeal against them (see paragraph 28 below). in the latter regard, the police argued that there were reasons to believe that the applicant would try to remain illegally in ukraine. on 18 may 2010 the kyiv administrative court heard the case in the absence of the parties, having noted that the applicant had submitted a written statement that he did not wish to be present and that he agreed with the expulsion decision, and also that the police were not able to attend the hearing because of their high workload. if no appeal was lodged against the decision it would enter into force after the expiry of the ten-day period. it is unknown whether the applicant or his lawyer intended to take part in the hearing and, if so, whether they informed the court of appeal accordingly. the appeal was rejected as unsubstantiated. that decision was not appealed against and became final. according to the applicant, in his application he stated that he feared persecution by hamas if returned to gaza, as he had been a member of fatah. on 1 august 2012 the applicant received a written notice dated 21 june 2012 that his asylum application had been refused by a decision of the state migration service of 17 may 2012 and that he could challenge it before the courts. on 3 august 2012 the applicant challenged the refusal of his asylum application before the kyiv administrative court. the applicant stated that he had not been given access to the evidence in the inquiry. the court in particular found that, although the arguments on which the applicant’s new application for asylum had been based were the same as in the applicant’s initial application, the new application needed to be reconsidered in the light of the decision of the desnyanskyy district court of 29 october 2014 and on the basis of the new act on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, which had entered into force on 25 december 2011.
the applicants were born in 1969, 1968 and 1972 respectively and live in lanžhot (messrs. bátěk and elsner) and břeclav (mr blažej). as a result of her observations over the following two months, the customs officers were suspected of corruption, namely taking bribes from truck drivers in exchange for granting priority or trouble-free customs clearance. during march and april 2004 testimony was taken in the presence of a judge from twenty truck drivers from different countries in accordance with the provisions of article 158a of the ccp, that is to say this step was taken as an urgent or non-repeatable measure (neodkladný nebo neopakovatelný úkon). the applicants, being not yet charged, were not present at these interviews. testified that he had paid 5 eur on each of the ten trips he had made to pass the customs control. on 22 april 2004 the applicants were charged, together with fifteen other individuals, with abuse of the authority of public official and accepting bribes. she gave her testimony outside the courtroom using an audio streaming device. the other two applicants were absent and were represented by a substitute defence counsel. only the third applicant put a question to the anonymous witness. when it comes to counts 2 and 3 of the indictment, he is also incriminated by the witness statements of the bulgarian driver [d.] and the romanian driver [c.d.] who, according to their records, passed the border crossing point at the time in question, and their papers and travel documents bear the respective numbers of the defendant bátěk. and by a report from his former employer stating the defendant’s whereabouts at the time concerned. who submitted details of his border crossing to the authorities and notes of bribes given at a specific time and place. the applicants appealed against the judgment. the argument about her future activities was not sufficient justification. in such circumstances, and when such an agent is heard as a witness, article 55 § 2, article 183a § 4, and article 209 of the ccp would be applicable. in the instant case, the provisions of the ccp regulating the agent’s testimony were not violated and the allegations of some of the defendants that the agent had been heard as an anonymous witness in order to allow her to consult her notes or another person are unsubstantiated. the witnesses merely pass through the territory in the course of their work as truck drivers. it is apparent from the file that the truck drivers were questioned in the presence of an interpreter and in the presence of judges of the břeclav district court (...).
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in daugavpils. the applicant, who had category 2 disability status in relation to his eyesight, did not offer any resistance. beat up the applicant by delivering several blows to his head, near to his eyes. on 30 january 1995 criminal proceedings were initiated against s.k. did not appear at the first hearing on 1 november 1995. the prosecutor supported the request and the daugavpils court ordered a report. in january 1998, january 1999 and august 1999 the daugavpils court asked the daugavpils police station for information about the measures taken and results achieved in executing the arrest warrant. was wanted and that the trial court would be informed when he was caught. in july 1998 and january 1999 the daugavpils court asked the russian authorities for assistance in obtaining originals of medical records relating to the applicant’s operations (see paragraph 7 above). on 16 november 1999 the prosecutor asked the trial court to order a forensic medical examination to confirm the classification of the offence. on 7 december 1999 a medical report was drawn up. the injuries sustained by him were considered minor. the report continued by stating that on 16 january 1995 the applicant had suffered injuries to his head that had resulted in a serious worsening of his eye disorder (myopia) with the recurrence of retinal detachments in both eyes followed by further deterioration of his sight. in absentia for abusing his official power in a violent and disrespectful manner. he was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment. the judgment became final on 11 march 2003. he was awarded lvl 90,000 (eur 128,500) in non-pecuniary damages for the damage caused to his health and lvl 4,502.81 (eur 6,432.58) in pecuniary damages from both defendants on a pro rata basis for his medical expenses. the supreme court analysed all the medical data before it concerning the applicant’s health and concluded that the state police were liable to pay pecuniary damages to the applicant for his medical expenses under section 2347 of the civil law. in this regard he had relied on sections 2347 to 2349 of the civil law, which provided that compensation could be claimed for mutilation and disfigurement. according to the supreme court, no such obligation could be inferred from any other legal acts on the account that the subject matter of the present civil dispute did not concern the public law obligation which the latvian state had undertaken in the area of human rights.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in prague. do i have to become evil before you can hear me out and are willing to talk to me? i could have taken pictures of you, forced you to make a porn movie and sent it to all those people in england. i could have forced you to sign whatever i wished for, and i know that you would forced yourself to sign whatever i wished and i know that you would have done it at that moment. on 7 june 2006 c. made a statement about the applicant’s threatening telephone calls and emails at the police station in surrey (the united kingdom). on the next day, upon police advice, she changed her telephone number and email address. the female informer indicated that a certain c. had confessed that she had participated in sexual abuse whilst working as an au pair in the united kingdom. she decided to tell me about the entire matter only after he had allegedly sent her an email with the words ... ‘and don’t forget that you have a family – mother, brother – back at home’ ... given her experience of him, [c.] considers it very likely that this threat could be carried out by [the applicant]. she continued the story, saying that when she was at home for christmas [the applicant] had abducted her. at that time, she did not tell me any details. ... ...i personally contacted the psychologist ... she confirmed that my daughter had phoned her as well. the district court tried to summons c. again. in its letter of 12 march 2009, the court sent a summons to the main hearing to c. through her mother. in a letter of 24 april 2009, c. informed the presiding judge that, although she had been summonsed, she was unable to attend the main hearing because she had been working abroad for more than four years and intended to stay abroad on a permanent basis. it appears that the district court did not try to summon c. again. the hearing before the municipal court was held on 30 march 2010 in the absence of the applicant, who had apologised in writing on 29 march 2010 indicating that he could not attend the hearing due to serious personal and family reasons, but agreeing that the court carry out merely the procedural acts allowed by article 263 § 5 of the ccp and asking, at the same time, to postpone the hearing afterwards. the court found that the applicant’s guilt had been securely established in particular by the statement given by c., which was not the only evidence against the applicant, her statements having been corroborated by further indirect evidence, such as the testimony of her mother, in whom c. had confided at the material time. finally, one should not disregard the statement of an impartial witness ... namely the victim’s psychotherapist, who confirmed that the victim came to her because of relational problems with the defendant, confided in her about having been held by the defendant against her will and driven off somewhere in his car, and about his emails threatening to harm her if she left him. consequently, the defendant’s complaint concerning the unreliability of the victim is ill-founded ... as a result, the district court correctly believed the testimony given by the victim in relation to this matter, considering her testimony in general to be credible ...the defendant’s behaviour and verbal aggression, as documented in the emails and sms messages sent by him escalated at a later stage, prompting the victim to file a criminal complaint and change her contact details because she was afraid of the defendant’s behaviour after he threatened to harm her mother and brother. ...” therefore, the municipal court deemed legal the procedure applied by the district court whereby, after exhausting the possibility of examining the victim in the main hearing for unavailability due to her residence abroad, it read out the statement she had made ... in the pre-trial proceedings in accordance with article 211 § 2(a) of the code of criminal procedure.
the first applicant was born in 1933 and lives in brussels. the second applicant was born in 1958 and is detained in verviers prison. on 12 january 1998 an attempted robbery was carried out on an armoured van owned by the b.z. two of the three occupants of the van were killed. who subsequently became a co-defendant (see paragraph 13 below). was heard by the investigating judge as a witness under oath. who were themselves involved in organised crime, had provided false information. ’s murder in exchange for police protection. in particular stating the names of those involved in the attack, including the applicants, and mentioning that the attack had been prepared a long time in advance by a different team and that one of the weapons discovered in one of the vehicles abandoned at the scene of the crime had been purchased by l.m. in a statement of 28 october 2005 he mentioned the assistance which he had received by way of protection measures. was also questioned, in the framework of police protection measures, in particular concerning the b.z. in the meantime, on the basis of the statements by d.s. on 3 december 2007 the indictments division committed the twelve defendants for trial before the liège assize court. van, as well as other offences linked to organised crime. he was sentenced to thirty years’ imprisonment. on 2 april 2010 the retrial commenced before the brussels-capital assize court. the main reasons for the jury’s decision were subsequently summarised as follows in a statement of reasons issued by the assize court that same day:“the [first applicant’s guilt] regarding his involvement in the attempted robbery in waremme on 12 january 1998 transpires from the concurring statements of [r.c. both of whom admitted that they had had talks with [r.c.], the reasons impelling a witness to testify may give rise to doubts concerning his or her credibility, but that is not necessarily inconsistent with the holding of a fair trial. finally, the first applicant complained that the judgment of 30 september 2010 determining the sentence had not taken account of the abnormal length of the proceedings against the applicants when the sentence was passed.
they were both born in 1957 and live in colares. the gentlemen judges, who some time ago engaged in a dispute with [the judges of] the constitutional court to determine who occupied the more important place in the hierarchy (those of the supreme court won ... but gave to those of the constitutional court the consolation of having at their disposal a high-end car ...) aren’t even much respected. [ secondly, and much more serious, the man is volunteering himself to be the face of a group of judges [that is] against the reforming decisions of those holding political power which are currently the subject of a broad consensus between the government party and the main opposition force. it is so pathetic as to make one laugh, were we not in portugal and if we did not understand how the strategies of the spiders work. there was coverage of the election in the days preceding and following it in various articles in the national press. that man should never be able to run [for elections to the scj] because those who are going to elect him are those whom he has graded. it is an election which has the appearance of being distorted. ’s opponents, who had made references to the methods judge n.n. on 13 november 2009 the lisbon civil court found for the plaintiff. ...[the editorial examines] the plaintiff on two levels: how he, allegedly, managed to achieve the electoral results; and his electoral programme as a candidate for election to the presidency of the supreme court. with regard to the first topic ... in [the editorial] there is no expression of any value judgment. lodged appeals against the first-instance judgment with the lisbon court of appeal. argued that the level of compensation should have been set at a higher amount and that the second applicant should have been considered a party to the proceedings. on an unknown date in november 2010 the applicants and judge n.n., respectively, lodged an appeal and a cross-appeal (recurso subordinado) against that judgment with the supreme court of justice. on 15 december 2011 the supreme court of justice declined to examine the applicants’ appeal. had already mustered support for his election in the next elections for the post of president of supreme court;(v)  in 2001 público had published an editorial [by the then editor] criticising the system of electing the president of the supreme court and of hcj judges; with regard to the latter, criticism was made of judge n.n. as to the analysis of the merits of the case, the relevant parts of the judgment read as follows:“...in the present case, it is important to take into account [the fact] that the person referred to in the ... text written by the defendant is a public figure, being the fourth-highest-ranking figure of state: the president of the supreme court of justice. ...besides that, and this is the decisive point for the determination of the amount to be awarded, the piece written by the defendant, despite the degree of offence and suffering [caused to] the plaintiff, was not an obstacle to his re-election by a large majority (larger than that previously, as everybody knew) to the same post. had not submitted any grounds of appeal (julgado deserto o recurso e caducado o recurso subordinado).
the applicant was born in 1966 and is currently detained in giurgiu prison. the decision became final on 25 february 2000 when the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant. the applicant is currently serving his prison sentence in giurgiu prison where he has been held since 21 january 2009. a305, a306, a328, b232, c109, c116, c126, c127, c215, c216, c225, e1.22, e3.7, e3.12, e3.24, e3.26, e3.32, e4.5, e4.14, e4.25, e4.27, e5.32, e10.8, e10.11 which each measured 17,65 sq. m and which he shared with a maximum of five other detainees, between 26 january 2009 and 5 august 2010, between 12 august and 6 september 2010, between 7 march and 28 april 2011, between 20 may and 22 august 2011, between 29 august 2011 and 3 february 2012, between 9 february and 2 april 2012, between 7 may and 23 july 2012, between 2 august and 13 september 2012, between 4 october 2012 and 4 march 2013, between 11 march and 11 april 2013, between 18 and 29 april 2013, between 7 may 2013 and 7 february 2014 and between 21 february and 22 july 2014. c317, c333, c336 and e3.19 which each measured 9.66 sq. m and which he shared with another person, between 21 and 26 january 2009, between 6 september and 10 october 2010, between 12 and 20 may 2011 and between 7 and 21 february 2014. m and was provided with a sink, a shower cabin, shelves, mirror and a toilet. the detainees collected the trash and cleaned the cells twice every day. the inmates received the hygiene products from the prison administration and had access to warm water twice every week. the information submitted by the prison administration concerned conditions of detention only until 22 july 2014. the applicant complained repeatedly to the post-sentencing judge (law no. 275/2006 on the execution of sentences; hereinafter “law no. 275/2006”) about the conditions of his detention. by two decisions of 29 august and 21 november 2013 the post-sentencing judge for giurgiu prison noted that the applicant was no longer held with smokers. the applicant appealed against these two decisions. on 31 january 2014 the giurgiu district court ordered the giurgiu prison administration to ensure the applicant 4 sq. the applicant also complained before the post-sentencing judge for slobozia prison, that while he was held in there, from march to may 2013, he was again placed in cells with smokers. the decision was upheld by the slobozia district court on 10 march 2014. he also noted that the applicant could bring a separate claim for compensation before the civil courts.
the applicant company is a limited liability company with its seat in ansfelden. on 3 may 2000 the applicant company applied to the linz-land district administrative authority (bezirkshauptmannschaft – daa) for the permission to modify its facility site by constructing a loading zone and a noise protection wall. an oral hearing was held on 1 march 2001. on 12 july 2001 the applicant company lodged an application for transfer of jurisdiction, because the daa had not rendered a decision within the statutory six-month time-limit. by decision of 23 july 2001 the daa granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the objections lodged by persons living in the vicinity of the site (hereinafter, “the neighbours”). on 18 december 2001 the upper austria regional governor (landeshauptmann von oberösterreich – hereinafter, “the regional governor”) lifted the daa’s decision because of lack of jurisdiction, and on 19 december 2001 he dismissed the applicant company’s application for transfer of jurisdiction. the applicant company appealed against the latter decision, but its appeal was dismissed by the federal minister of economy and labour (bundesminister für wirtschaft und arbeit – hereinafter, the “minister”) on 20 august 2002. the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) lifted the minister’s decision on 17 december 2002 and held that the regional governor was the competent authority to decide on the matter. on 16 october 2003 the minister lifted the regional governor’s decision of 19 december 2001 and held that the latter was competent to decide on the merits of the applicant company’s case. meanwhile, on 14 january 2002 the daa had granted the applicant company permission to modify its facility site and dismissed the neighbours’ objections. on 22 december 2003 the regional governor lifted the daa’s decision because of lack of jurisdiction, and granted the applicant company the permission. on 26 january 2004 the neighbours appealed against this decision to the minister. on 1 september 2004 the applicant company filed an application for transfer of jurisdiction, because a decision had not been reached within the statutory six-month time-limit. on 7 september 2004 the administrative court ordered the minister to take a decision within three months. on 11 november 2004, upon request by the minister, it extended the time-limit by another six months. on 11 may 2005 the administrative court refused another request by the minister for an extension of the time-limit and assumed jurisdiction. after having requested an additional statement from an official expert (amtssachverständiger) on 14 october 2008, the administrative court dismissed the neighbours’ appeal as being unfounded by judgment of 1 july 2010 (served on the applicant company’s counsel on 28 july 2010).
the first applicant was born in 1971 and lives in devecser. the second applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ajka. they had also been informed that the demonstrators would seek conflict with the police and the minority community. according to the far-right organisations’ websites, the demonstration was aimed “against roma criminality”, “against the roma of devecser beating up hungarians” and “against the roma criminals unable to respect the rules of living together”. announced that the demonstration was about the justified self-protection of hungarians. leader of the sixty-four counties youth movement (hatvannégy vármegye ifjúsági mozgalom), mentioned that roma criminality was omnipresent in the country and wherever this ethnic group appeared, only destruction, devastation and fear came. in his view there was a destruction of civilians going on in hungary. he mentioned that the roma minority was genetically encoded to behave in a criminal way and declared that the only way to deal with the roma was by applying force to “stamp out this phenomenon that needs to be purged”. they also called on the police not to protect the roma residents from the demonstrators and to let them out from their houses. sporadically, quasi‑military demonstrations of force occurred, involving military-style uniforms, formations, commands and salutes. furthermore, one of his acquaintances had been injured by a stone thrown into his garden, but the police officer to whom the applicant had reported the incident had not taken any steps. had not been able to keep the events under control and had been unwilling to confront the participants. both applicants complained to the veszprém county police department about the failure of the police to take measures against the demonstrators, thereby endangering their life and limb and their human dignity. as regards the failure of the police to carry out identity checks on demonstrators and to hold suspects for questioning (előállítás), the police department found that such measures would only have aggravated the situation and strengthened the demonstrators’ hostility towards the police. by its decisions of 29 october 2013 and 25 june 2014 the veszprém county police department dismissed both applicants’ complaints again on identical grounds. nonetheless, it concluded that dispersing the demonstration would have carried a high risk since, based on previous experience, those participants intent on violence would probably have turned against the police. the police department opened a separate investigation, under article 269 point (b) of the criminal code (incitement against a group), into the issue of the speeches delivered during the demonstration. thus the applicants were not victims of the alleged criminal act and had no standing to lodge a complaint against the decision to discontinue the investigation. however, the county prosecution office re-examined the decision on its own motion. he was found guilty as charged on 2 june 2015 by the ajka district court and sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment, suspended for two years.
the first applicant, ms floare cacuci, was born on 2 march 1939 and lives in oradea. she is an accounting expert and the owner and general manager of the second applicant, s.c. both applicants were members of the romanian institute of accounting experts and certified accountants (corpul experților contabili și contabililor autorizați din românia). on 30 july 2001 the criminal department of the bihor county police ordered a forensic accounting report in a criminal case it was dealing with. was also appointed to participate in producing the report. according to the first applicant, on 21 october 2005, while she was in the street, having just left her house, she was stopped by a police officer, who told her that he had a search warrant for her home. the prosecutor’s notes in the search report produced on that occasion at the place of residence of the first applicant state that the first applicant was asked to surrender the items used to commit the alleged offence of intellectual forgery, namely the computer, the printer, and the documents on which the second expert report was based (articles 96-99 of the rccp, see paragraph 45 below). several items and documents were found, the first applicant claiming that everything belonged to the second applicant. see paragraph 7 above – and an empty printer cartridge box. the applicants argued that, while the copy of the search report handed to them at that moment had made no mention of the manner in which the seized items had been sealed, the copy in the criminal file contained supplementary information on page 4, mentioning that the objects had been put in a sealed cardboard box labelled mai (the ministry of internal affairs) 15980. consequently, together with her lawyer, she decided to leave the police headquarters without attending the unsealing and search procedure. on 5 december 2005 the first applicant submitted the missing 497 pages from the first expert report (see paragraph 6 above) to the oradea district court, following payment of 60% of her fee. the seized items and documents belonged to the second applicant. the warrant had been issued in respect of her residence as stated on her identification documents. the prosecutor submitted that the investigating authorities had had no obligation to check whether that residence was also the registered office of various private companies. moreover, during the search, the first applicant had submitted a lease contract concluded between herself and the second applicant concerning one half of the immovable property, without specifying or determining which half belonged to which party. moreover, interested parties had at their disposal several opportunities and means to contest any measure taken during a criminal investigation or criminal trial. the first applicant filed several criminal complaints against the relevant prosecutors and police officers who had requested and carried out the search of 21 october 2005 with various domestic authorities (the romanian senate, the high council of the judiciary and the ministry of internal affairs), accusing them of abuse of office for carrying out the search in breach of articles 100-111 of the rccp (see paragraph 46 below). in the complaint, the first applicant claimed that the search report had been forged with regard to the manner in which the computer had been sealed (see paragraphs 16-17 above). in the absence of any registration number or reference to a domestic file number, it is unclear if and when that complaint was lodged with the domestic authorities; assuming that it was, it is equally unclear whether the first applicant received any response.
according to the latest information in the court’s possession, he was serving a sentence in the pravieniškės correctional home. on 30 may 2006 the applicant wrote to the ministry of education and science (švietimo ir mokslo ministerija, hereinafter “the ministry”), requesting information about the possibility of enrolling at university. the applicant mentioned that he was a prisoner and thus could not physically attend the place of study. the site also contains historical data regarding education ...aikos provides information to three groups of users: adults, children (up to fourteen years of age) and english speakers. the users may use more functions after they have registered on this site. on 1 july 2006 the pravieniškės correctional home governor replied that the prison authorities did not consider the ministry’s reply to be comprehensive. the applicant then lodged a complaint with the department of prisons (kalėjimų departamentas), arguing that none of the laws prohibited him from obtaining information from a state institution electronically. the applicant referred to the ministry’s reply and asked to be granted internet access. it was suggested that the applicant again ask the ministry to provide the information he sought. if the prisoners had the right to use internet, they could pursue criminal activities and could also coordinate the activities of criminal organisations. lastly, given that postal correspondence between prisoners was not permitted, providing prisoners with access to the internet would make that prohibition pointless. the prisons department also asked the court to dismiss the applicant’s complaint, arguing that although article 96 of the code of the execution of sentences permitted prisoners to use computers (see paragraph 29 below), this did not encompass the right to internet use. there was no right under lithuanian law for a prisoner to be provided with internet access. the secondary school graduation exams showed good results”. the court noted that, for its users, the internet provided very wide opportunities to use email, to obtain information, to download files, and to sell or buy things. however, the right to use the internet was not absolute and this right could be restricted to certain social groups. this stemmed from article 10 of the code of the execution of sentences (see paragraph 29 below). on 15 january 2007 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the claim by the applicant as unfounded. however, the court found that the conditions of the applicant’s detention had been satisfactory overall, except for a few minor details, and that the gravity of those violations was not such as would amount to inhuman or degrading treatment. however, the applicant later committed a disciplinary offence, and for that reason the extended visit was denied.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in valea călugărească. in 1993 the applicant was sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment for homicide. between 24 november 2004 and 12 november 2008 he was serving his sentence in arad prison. the applicant alleged that, between 24 november 2004 and 2 october 2008, while he had been under a closed prison regime in arad prison, he had been taking his daily three hours of exercise in outside yards which lacked access to toilets or running water. at certain times there were as many as fifty prisoners in one recreation yard. especially during the hot days of summer the situation could have been described as inhuman and humiliating, because he had been forced to satisfy his physiological needs together with other prisoners along the fences of the yard, in the same place where they were supposed to walk and breathe fresh air. the applicant alleged that he had on numerous occasions asked the arad prison administration to provide sanitary facilities and running water in the recreation yards. his requests had been consistently ignored or had received the reply that renovation works were planned for the future. the prison authorities noted on the applicant’s request that in fact he had been allowed to take water with him during his daily exercise and he had also been able to go to his cell in order to satisfy his physiological needs during this time. they further noted “at the moment renovation works are under way in the yards.” 276/2006 on the execution of sentences did not provide for the right to have access to sanitary facilities and water during the prisoners’ daily outside exercise. the arad prison administration maintained before the court that the law did not provide for an obligation to equip the recreation yards with sanitary facilities. the court based its decision on witness statements as well as on information submitted by the prison authorities. in view of the evidence before it, the court allowed the applicant’s complaint and ordered the arad prison authorities to ensure the applicant’s right to daily exercise in a yard provided with sanitary facilities and drinking water. in the meantime, on 23 october 2008 the post-sentencing judge in arad prison had studied another complaint lodged by the applicant in respect of another alleged breach of his rights. in this context the post-sentencing judge held that he was not competent in law to deal with the applicant’s request for compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 2 october 2008 the applicant was placed under a semi-open detention regime, because his prison term was approaching its end. he was moved to a different prison wing, where the recreation yard was provided with both toilets and drinking water. on 12 november 2008 the applicant was conditionally released from prison. at the time the letter was sent, running water had been made available in all yards.
lojistik tasimacilik ticaret limited sirketi has its registered office in istanbul. the customs officers informed the police accordingly. on 14 november 2008 the police inspected the lorry and its trailer and found 105 kg of heroin. the driver, a turkish citizen, was arrested and detained. the lorry was seized and the trailer and its goods became the object of a customs procedure. on an unspecified date the applicant company received documents enabling the goods contained in the trailer to be delivered to their destination. the trailer was returned to the applicant company. on 25 november 2008 the applicant company asked the ptuj district court to provide it with the case-file concerning the charges against the driver. on 8 december 2008 the court informed the applicant company of the charges against the driver. it further informed the applicant company that the lorry had been seized in accordance with section 220 of the criminal procedure act read in conjunction with section 186(5) of the criminal code and that no decision could be made on the return or confiscation of the lorry until a decision on the merits had been issued. on 29 december 2008 the ptuj district court found the driver guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. thus, according to the applicant company, the measure complained of constituted a punishment and an unjustified and disproportionate interference with its property and that it had not had the opportunity to participate in the criminal proceedings. in reviewing the contested legislation, the constitutional court confirmed the higher court’s view that section 186 of the criminal code provided for mandatory confiscation of vehicles used for the transportation and storage of drugs or illegal substances in sport, regardless of their ownership. the constitutional court stressed that the nature of the criminal offences in question, the manner in which they were committed and their consequences justified the interference with the ownership rights of all owners of the means of transport used for drug-trafficking, regardless of their potential involvement in the criminal activities at issue, adding that a different regulation governing the confiscation of goods would diminish considerably the possibilities for effectively preventing the criminal offences in question. in this connection, the constitutional court pointed out that legal certainty required that every instance of legally recognised damage be adequately protected. meanwhile, on 29 june 2009 the ptuj district court informed the applicant company that the lorry was to be sold at a public auction and that it could submit written comments in this respect. on 30 november 2011 the lorry was sold at public auction for 12,000 euros (“eur”). according to the government the lorry was sold to the applicant company. in this regard, they submitted a document stating that the lorry had been sold to “b.k.m. the government did not reply to this submission.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in tbilisi. she was raised mainly by her maternal grandmother in georgia while both parents, whose relationship soon ended, left to work abroad. applied to the tbilisi city court for her daughter to be officially registered as resident at her address. on 19 may 2008 a summons was sent to the applicant at his registered address, informing him of k.g. according to the courier, the summons could not be served as the house was closed up and no one was living there. on 24 june 2008 the tbilisi city court granted k.g. on 12 december 2008 the tbilisi city court, acting upon another application by k.g., no specific time-limit for that restriction of the applicant’s parental rights was given in the ruling. unlike the first set of default proceedings, the summons was sent twice to the applicant at the address he had registered at. the courier noted that the house was closed up. it appears from the case file that the custody and guardianship authority, which represented the interests of the child in the above proceedings, made its own attempts to contact the applicant. in conclusions submitted to the tbilisi city court, the authority noted that during its visit to the applicant’s registered address it had learnt from neighbours that he had sold the house in 2003 and left for moscow. on 6 june 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the tbilisi city court, seeking to have both default decisions set aside. he stated that he had learnt about the decisions only in may 2012. he also explained that he had not been living in georgia at the material time, which his former partner had well known. the default proceedings had been unfair as he had not been properly summoned to the hearings. the court ruled, with reference to articles 71 § 3 and 422 of the ccp (see paragraphs 15 and 17 below), that the applicant had been duly informed about the proceedings via public notifications in a newspaper and that there was therefore no legal basis to set the impugned decisions aside. it noted that the applicant had been registered at the address where the summonses had been sent and that for the purposes of the proceedings the courts had been justified in using that very address. that decision was upheld by the tbilisi court of appeal on 31 october 2012. it reasoned that the domestic courts had been right to send the summonses to the applicant’s only available registered address.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in kartsa, in the north ossetia-alania republic. a white lada car drove up to them and stopped. two persons in plain clothes got out, one of whom was a local police lieutenant, ts. seven or eight men in plain clothes got out of the cars. the individuals who had arrested the applicant took him to an office on the third floor of the police station, where they punched and kicked him and insulted him, shouting that “all ingush should be crushed”. from time to time they put a black plastic bag over his head to suffocate him. they took off his shoes and beat him on his heels. when the applicant lost consciousness, they poured cold water over him to revive him. they then took him to another office on the first floor. according to the government, on 10 january 2007 at around 10.15 p.m. the police officers asked the applicant to go with them to the police station. they made the decision to use force to arrest the applicant, and when he resisted they restrained him, using a combative technique. the police officers then took the applicant to the police station, where he was subjected to a medical examination due to his inebriated state. on 11 january 2011 the investigator questioned the police officers who had carried out the applicant’s arrest. on 11 january 2007 police captain r. instituted criminal proceedings against the applicant on the charge of illegally possessing a grenade. on the same date the applicant’s parents retained a lawyer to represent him. the lawyer filmed the applicant’s injuries using her mobile phone. on 12 january 2007 forensic medical expert tkh. they had kicked him, had beaten him with a stick and had throttled him. on 1 march 2007 the applicant was given victim status in respect of the crime and questioned as to the events of 10 january 2007. the decisions in this regard were taken on 19 april, 23 may and 20 november 2007, and 29 june 2012.
the applicants are all romanian nationals of roma origin and heirs of i.b., ’s heirs pursued the case before the domestic courts and lodged a complaint before the court both on his own and their behalf. went to clejani police and made a written statement before the chief police expressing her wish to live in her boyfriend’s home. if he was keeping a girl in his home against her will. came out of the house and reiterated that she was living there of her own free will. several other people were also present in the house at that time: i.b. one year and eight months; see paragraphs 37 and 64 (b) below). he fell to the ground and was helped up by two neighbours. the sixth applicant was taken to hospital in bolintin deal. shortly afterwards, police officers entered the office, but the mayor asked them to leave again as the situation was calm. relying on the findings of the domestic courts, the government made the following submissions as to the incident in question. and the fifth applicant had refused to accept the summonses, which had therefore been posted on their door. and the fifth applicant had informed the court officer that romano criss had taken on their defence case and that they would go to the prosecutor’s office if summonsed. they also recorded that the damage to the police van was being examined by a panel which would make a proposal regarding appropriate compensation. he provided the names of the eyewitnesses. ’s allegation that he had not been invited to testify before the prosecutor. appealed against that decision but died while the appeal proceedings were still pending. the seventh applicant, who had also expressed her wish to participate in the proceedings after i.b. she did not participate in the ensuing proceedings. the county court decision thus became final.
a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix. on 23 december 2011 the applicants, political activists, participated in a demonstration organised by the political party “politics can be different’” (lehet más a politika). the demonstrators blocked the entrance of a car park adjacent to the parliament building by chaining themselves to each other and to concrete columns situated next to the entrance. following the incident the budapest main police department opened criminal investigations against twenty-nine persons, including the applicants, on charges of violation of personal liberty under article 175(1) of act no. on 9 march 2012 parliament enacted act no. xii of 2012 (“the amnesty act”) (see paragraph 12 below), which entered into force on 10 march 2012. on 29 march 2012 the budapest main police department discontinued the criminal investigation against the twenty-nine suspects, pursuant to article 190 §§ 1 (e) and 2 of the code on criminal procedure on the grounds that they had been granted amnesty. the applicants did not appeal against that decision. on 6 september 2012 six of the applicants, ms bende, ms kalocsai, ms ámon, ms székelyné rákosi, mr moldován and mr gajárszki, lodged a constitutional complaint requesting the constitutional court to declare sections 1, 2 and 4 of the amnesty act unconstitutional as infringing the right to their reputation and the principle of presumption of innocence. the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it reasoned that the complaint did not raise any constitutional-law issues of “fundamental importance”, since it was based on an erroneous interpretation of the law. the constitutional court pointed out that the language employed by the act could not be interpreted as establishing that the applicants had indeed committed the offence. in any event, the complaint was time-barred since it had been lodged outside the statutory 180 days’ time-limit following the entry into force of the legislation.
the us nationals (“the us applicants”) started proceedings for the adoption of children from russia between 2010 and 2012. having completed the necessary steps for intercountry adoption within the united states, the us applicants were registered in the russian state databank as prospective adoptive parents on 6 august 2012. on 21 january 2013 the us applicants appeared before the court. on 14 may 2013 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 30 january 2013. on 1 october 2012 the us applicants obtained a referral to visit v.t. the us applicants initiated the adoption procedure in march 2012. on 31 january 2013 the moscow regional court rejected the request to postpone the hearing and discontinued the adoption procedure on the grounds that under law no. from the committee on social policy of the st petersburg administration. she visited her twice a day between 24 and 28 december 2012. has been adopted by a different adoptive family. they were assisted by the authorised adoption agency “international assistance group, inc.”. the adoption application was not submitted to a court. 23890/13 was lodged on 5 april 2013 by m.w., born on 17 march 1964, who live in woodstock, virginia, united states (the us applicants), and m.k., however, their attempts were unsuccessful as no adoption agency worked with the chelyabinsk region. who was born on 19 february 2012 and lives in vladivostok. each visit lasted between an hour and a half and two hours. petersburg city court returned the application without examination on the grounds that it had been submitted by a private person acting on the us applicants’ behalf, whereas pursuant to virtue of article 4 § 4 of the bilateral agreement on adoption it could only be submitted by an authorised agency. in december 2012, when the us applicants went to russia to finalise the adoption of x., they learned that the regional ban on adoption of children by us nationals had been lifted. on 25 april 2013 the us applicants were informed that they had been removed from the state databank as prospective adoptive parents.
the first and second applicants were born in 1984 and 1982 respectively and live in vienna. the applicants are all nationals of the philippines. one of them took possession of her passport. further, the first applicant was forbidden from speaking to any of the other workers from the philippines in their native language. when she became ill after sleeping on the cold floor, her employers prevented her from buying medicine or contacting a doctor; instead, she had to continue working the same hours. she also repeatedly threatened to let her husband hit the first applicant if she did not follow her orders or made any mistakes. the second applicant was married with three young children in the philippines. she was also forced to work from around 5 or 6 a.m. until midnight or 1 a.m. the following day. therefore, in 2009 she contacted an employment agency in the philippines and was offered work as a maid in dubai. she was told that these items would be returned to her when she finished her work in dubai. the third applicant was working for a family member of the first and second applicants’ employers. they secretly shared their experiences on these occasions. afterwards, she only received approximately aed 750 per month, less than what had been agreed. when the third applicant told her employer that she wished to return to the philippines, she was told that she would have to pay the cost of the flight and the agency fees, which her employer knew she could not afford at that point. by this stage, the third applicant had formed the impression that this employer, of whom she lived in a constant state of fear, was a dangerous person who might try to hurt her very badly. in july 2011 the applicants decided to turn to the austrian police and filed a criminal complaint (strafanzeige) against their employers. the applicants all expressed their willingness to actively cooperate with the authorities and to engage in criminal proceedings against their employers. on 14 november 2011 the public prosecutor gave a short written decision with reasons for the discontinuation of the proceedings. in the public prosecutor’s view, the offence had been committed abroad by non-nationals, and did not engage austrian interests within the meaning of article 64 § 1 (4) of the cc. 11 os 161/81, which affirmed that austrian interests had been damaged as a result of the import into austria of a large amount of narcotics for transport...”this decision was served on the applicants’ counsel on 23 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in toruń. he is a publicist and a professor of sociology. a journalist from rzeczpospolita, a national daily newspaper, on the subject of lustration of journalists which at that time was widely commented on in the media. the transcript of that interview was sent to the applicant by email. the applicant sent the text back with some minor corrections. on 14 march 2007 the newspaper published the applicant’s opinion. niektórzy z łatwością sięgają w niej po argumenty personalne. zybertowicz teraz zabiera glos, choć za komuny siedział cicho. a.m. wielokrotnie powtarzał: ja tyle lat siedziałem w więzieniu, to teraz mam racje. on 26 and 27 march 2007 a legal representative of a.m., an editor-in chief of gazeta wyborcza, one of the biggest daily newspapers, sent a legal letter to the applicant, offering to settle the issue amicably provided that the applicant published a relevant apology. a.m. repeatedly said: i spent so many years in prison, so now i am right” 10. it further determined the exact length of the apology (not smaller than 10 x 15 cm) and ordered the applicant to pay pln 10,000 (approximately eur 2,380) to a charity and pln 1,500 (approximately eur 357) in court fees. the court did not find any basis to appoint an expert of its own motion. according to the applicant, it was possible to summarise one’s way of thinking. the court considered that even though the phrase was not in quotation marks, it was a direct quote, since there was a colon, thus: “a.m. repeatedly said: ...”. this view was made with reference to general knowledge and did not need any special information. however, as no expert opinion on linguistics was obtained, further reflections on this issue were pointless. consequently, the court considered that the phrase used by the applicant had breached the plaintiff’s personal rights, in particular his credibility, reputation and good name, showing him as petty-minded. on 25 february 2010 the supreme court (sąd najwyższy) dismissed the applicant’s appeal. in the present case it had not been necessary to order an opinion from an expert on linguistics.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in ceske budejovice (czech republic). on 12 september 1998 the applicant was arrested in germany and extradited to austria on an unspecified date. he remained in detention on remand until 23 july 1999. on 14 january 1999 the wels public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft) filed a bill of indictment against the applicant. thereupon, the wels regional court held a first hearing on 25 march 2003. on 29 october 2003 the court decided to separate the proceedings against the applicant from those against the other accused. on 9 december 2003 the applicant requested that the trial against him be resumed. in march and july 2004 the applicant filed further requests under section 91 of the courts act. 127/05), complaining under article 6 of the convention about the length of the criminal proceedings against him. on 9 june 2008 the applicant and the government agreed on a friendly settlement of that case against a payment of 12,300 euros (eur) by the government. consequently, the court decided to strike application no. 127/05 out of its list of cases (see benes v. austria (dec.) on 4 september 2008, following the issuance of the above‑mentioned strike-out decision, the applicant requested the wels regional court to discontinue the proceedings against him, or in the alternative to set a new date for a hearing as soon as possible. on 15 april 2009 the wels regional court held another oral hearing. the applicant failed to attend because he had fallen ill. the following oral hearing was set for 21 october 2009, but was cancelled because the court-appointed expert had informed the court that he would need three to five more weeks to finalise his opinion. following an urgent reminder which the wels regional court had sent to the expert, it learned on 18 october 2010 that the expert had passed away. on 1 september 2011 a new expert was appointed. on 1 september 2011, 17 november 2011 and 13 december 2012, the applicant filed further requests under section 91 of the courts act, which were dismissed by the linz court of appeal on 7 november 2011, 1 february 2012 and 2 january 2013 respectively. in its last decision, the court of appeal observed that the expert opinion had been finalised and submitted to the trial court on 19 december 2012.
the applicants, mr ramaz tsartsidze, mr samvel bozoyani, mr mamuka gelashvili (applicants nos. 1); mr alexander mikirtumov, mr binali aliev (applicants nos. at the same time, the police authorised a coach containing extremist members of the orthodox church, led by mr v. mkalavishvili, also known as father basil (see members of the gldani congregation of jehovah’s witnesses and others v. georgia, no. the attackers destroyed objects for religious use and seized items belonging to others. on 18 june 2002 the applicants lodged an appeal with the tbilisi regional court complaining that the court of first instance had ignored the fact that the police had turned back the jehovah’s witnesses but had allowed father basil and his supporters to go through the same checkpoints. the applicants argued that their witness statements had been disregarded by the first-instance court in favour of unsubstantiated statements by the police officers. who ordered mr mikirtumov to leave marneuli and never to return, otherwise he would face serious problems. mr mikirtumov was then forced into a car and driven away from marneuli. on 17 june 2003 the proceedings brought by the applicants were dismissed as ill-founded. moreover, the statements made by the complainants had been completely rejected by the police officers. on 23 february 2005 the supreme court, ruling in written proceedings, dismissed an appeal by the applicants on points of law. the applicant was struck by several police officers, including e.ch., before leaving the police station, the applicant asked that his belongings be returned to him. mr gabunia described in detail the place where he had met the two police officers, and stated that they had been in uniform and wore badges. in addition, it noted the following:“the first two witnesses are jehovah’s witnesses and the applicants’ friends, and they have an interest in having the case decided in the applicants’ favour.” the governor of dviri, and about fifteen local residents. they submitted an audit report, dated 23 may 2001, in support of their claim. the officers had refused to accompany him. the police officers themselves did not attend the hearings on two consecutive dates. on 25 june 2004 the tbilisi regional court upheld the first-instance judgment, repeating the grounds used in it.
the first applicant was born in 1964 and lives in korsakov, sakhalin region. the second applicant was born in 1948 and lives in moscow. the applicants sued the trest zhilishchnogo hozyajstva municipal company (мп «трест жилищного хозяйства» – hereinafter “the municipal company”) in two unrelated sets of civil proceedings. on 22 january 2003 the korsakovskiy town court of the sakhalin region (hereinafter “town court”) granted the claim by the first applicant for salary arrears and ordered the municipal company to pay him 1,270 euros (eur). the judgment became final on the same date, but remained unenforced. on 1 march 2004 the town court granted the claim by the second applicant for compensation for the damage to her health sustained as a result of the acts of one of the municipal company’s employees. the court awarded the applicant eur 16,256. the judgment became final on 25 may 2004. it was partly enforced in 2004 and in 2006-07; the applicant received eur 11,888. on 7 may 2007, in the course of insolvency proceedings in respect of the municipal company, the commercial court of the sakhalin region (hereinafter “the commercial court”) granted the second applicant’s claim for compensation of lost income and dismissed the remainder of the applicant’s claims. on 18 july 2007 the commercial court discontinued the appeal proceedings on the grounds that the municipal company had been liquidated. the commercial court relied on articles 49 § 3 and 63 § 8 of the civil code of russia as interpreted by the plenary supreme commercial court in ruling no. 29 of 15 december 2004 (see paragraphs 13-14 below). the municipal company was incorporated as a municipal unitary company set up by a decision of the local authority and provided heating supply and maintenance services in respect of municipal housing. the municipal company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the local authority in order to carry out its statutory activities. according to the second applicant, on 27 april 2002 the local authority withdrew most of the assets from the municipal company’s economic control. the assets were subsequently transferred to a newly created company; the debts remained with the municipal company. on 27 september 2005 the municipal company was declared insolvent and it was put into liquidation. on 7 may 2007 the commercial court ended the liquidation proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in toruń. the applicant is a publicist and a professor of sociology. on 20 august 2008 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) quashed this decision. on 9 june 2009 the warsaw regional court gave judgment and partly allowed the plaintiff’s claim. it further determined the exact size and wording of the apology. the court also ordered the applicant to pay pln 1,000 (approximately eur 238) to a charity and pln 1,025 (approximately eur 244) in court fees. during the proceedings the court questioned the applicant and the plaintiff. the court also obtained an opinion from an expert on linguistics. the expert was asked in particular to reply to the question of whether the phrase “two agents and one their fierce defender”, in the context of the case, constituted a statement of fact or an opinion. the applicant also relied on an earlier warsaw court of appeal judgment confirming that z.s. the court further held that everyone, including those not following the news carefully, was aware that m.s. lastly, the court considered that from the published statements and quotes from a.m.’s public statements which the applicant had submitted during the proceedings it did not appear that a.m. had ever actually defended those two particular persons. the applicant was also ordered to publish an apology in rzeczpospolita. however, he had failed to prove that his statement had been true. the court referred to the ongoing public debate in poland about the necessity of lustration in order to explain and disclose the role of various special services after the world war ii. on the contrary, he had firmly condemned such activities. he had objected to lustration being understood as a tool to destroy people and being used as an argument in political games. in particular, he referred to article 10 of the convention. after the applicant failed to comply with that order, on 10 june 2011 the warsaw district court allowed a.m. to publish the apology in rzeczpospolita in the applicant’s name and ordered him to cover the fee for its publication in the amount of pln 23,124 (approximately eur 5,505). the applicant received a significant discount on that fee.
the first applicant was born in 1980 and the second applicant was born in 1981. she further stated that on the day her husband went to the forest she and her family were informed by a third party that her husband had met with an accident. with regard to the circumstances of the accident. on 15 january 2013 the timişoara forensic institute produced the forensic necropsy report (see paragraph 12 above). for involuntary manslaughter to be continued. that decision was communicated to the victim’s mother. by a report of 14 november 2013 police officer c.s. the owner and operator of the tractor, to collect dried wood. had testified that he did not know how many people had gone to the forest that day or any other details concerning the accident. on 27 january 2014 a superior prosecutor attached to the timiş prosecutor’s office allowed the victim’s mother’s challenge, quashed the decision of 26 november 2013 (see paragraph 27 above), and referred the case back to the lugoj prosecutor’s office. on 11 march 2014 the lugoj police department decided to open a criminal investigation against l.d. once he had realised what had happened he had stopped the tractor immediately and rushed to help the victim. had asked him to call the emergency services. the witness proposed by the victim’s mother, had stated that he had been at work at the time of the accident and had been informed about the victim’s death by telephone. if the victim had been positioned correctly, the accident would not have happened even if the tree had started rolling. the second applicant challenged the decision before a superior prosecutor. he argued, inter alia, that the decisions of the prosecutor’s office had been unfair and unlawful and had both protected and failed to investigate the state agents involved in the incident. and certain local police officers on 16 november 2012 and after that date. moreover, given the statements taken from the police officers and from the first applicant, there was no indication that i.d.d. also, the first applicant’s husband had been asked to take part in the logging operation by l.d.,
the first applicant divorced the second applicant’s father on 22 december 2008 by means of a court-approved divorce agreement. the child was to live with her mother, and her father could see her on the first and third weekend of every month, for thirty days during the summer, and for a week during the winter or spring. the agreement did not make reference to a specific address, or even a town or a city where the first applicant was supposed to live with the child. the parents also agreed that the father would collect the child from her mother’s home in kazanlak, bulgaria, and would take her back to the same location; the father could spend his time with the child at one of two specific addresses in bulgaria, located in koprivshtitsa and srednogorovo respectively. if the mother changed her address, she had to inform the father by registered mail within ten days of such a change. on 18 march 2009 the first applicant brought a claim under article 72 of the 1985 family code before the varna district court, seeking the court’s authorisation for the child to leave the country in the absence of her father’s agreement. she submitted that she was in a committed relationship with a bulgarian man who lived in the united kingdom, where he worked as a ship engineer. they intended to marry and she wished to settle in the united kingdom, and live with him and her daughter. the first applicant appealed against the refusal to the varna regional court. she claimed that the father showed no interest in the child and did not pay any child support. that had been decided at the time she had been granted custody of her daughter, and had not been either challenged or refuted subsequently. other courts considered that when a parental consensus was missing, granting permission for unlimited travel abroad was only going to cause further disturbance and resentment in the relationship between the parents, which was likely to result in additional disputes between them, and this was not in the interests of the child. also, if the parent took the child to a country which was not a member of the european union, or with which bulgaria had no reciprocal agreement regarding legal assistance, the authorities would not be able to ensure that the contact rights of the other parent were enforced. turning to the specific case, the court held that the first applicant had not presented any guarantees as to where the child would be taken or how the father’s contact rights would be exercised. importantly, the first applicant had not sought in court a change in the regime for contact between the child and the father with a view to her and the child moving their primary place of residence to the united kingdom. in any event, the first applicant had presented in the proceedings before the court only her personal assertions in respect of her future in the united kingdom, but no evidence to demonstrate the facts she claimed. she purported that she would get married; however, this was an uncertain future occurrence which did not depend solely on her will. the situation would have been entirely different, if she had been married and had settled in good material conditions in another country. on 18 december 2011, a little over a year after the final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on the issue of the child’s travel, the first applicant and her partner, who was still living in the uk, married in bulgaria. as a result, the applicants have been able to travel to, live and study in the united kingdom, where they were at the time of their last correspondence with the court.
the applicant, a former police officer, was born in 1962 and lives in zaporizhzhya. he did not want to be informed of his rights and stated that he would not give any evidence during the pre-trial investigation. on 18 november 2003 the applicant was again questioned in the presence of his lawyer. on 10 february 2004, upon his written consent, the applicant was questioned without a lawyer. on 25 january 2006 the applicant appealed to the ordzhonikidzevsky district court of zaporizhzhya against the prosecutor’s refusal of 31 july 2004 to institute criminal proceedings against the sbu officers. the court made no separate ruling in this connection. it had no cover and was emptied only once a day. the shower, which had lukewarm water, was available only once every ten days. outside walks were available only on a scarce and irregular basis. m (intended for four detainees);cell no. m, as provided for by the relevant domestic legislation. running water and mains drainage had been available. he underwent urine and blood tests which revealed no pathology. he was diagnosed with second-degree hypertension and nephropathy and was prescribed the relevant medical treatment. it was also recommended that the applicant consult an ophthalmologist and a neuropathologist. the medication prescribed following the examination was administered to the applicant by the sizo. from 15 december 2003 the applicant’s wife lodged a number of complaints with the sbu, prosecutors, courts and other state authorities alleging, inter alia, that the applicant had been unlawfully arrested and detained; that his health was in a critical condition; and that no relevant medical treatment could have been provided to him within the sizo. on 15 august 2004 the applicant’s wife asked the prosecutor’s office to provide truthful information about the applicant’s state of health and stated that adequate medical assistance could not be provided to the applicant in the sizo in view of the absence of the relevant medical specialists at the detention facility. on 24 november 2004 the prosecutor, having conducted an investigation into the matter and having studied the applicant’s medical file, replied to the applicant’s wife that her complaint appeared to be unfounded and that adequate medical assistance was being provided to the applicant in the sizo. on 2 and 23 february 2006, on the basis of the above conclusions, the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that no violations on the part of sizo medical staff had been established.
the applicant company is a german company based in auengrund. subsequently the open-cast quarrying of limestone began. in 1997 it received permission to use the quarry as a landfill (deponiezulassung) using waste soil from earthworks at other sites. meanwhile, the federal authorities began the planning of a new motorway with the preferred option being a route across the quarry. from 29 october until 6 december 1993 maps and documents were disclosed for public inspection in the municipality where the quarry was located. additionally, on 28 october 1993 information about the planning process was published in the municipality’s gazette. the applicant company claimed that it had not been aware of the planning process when it had bought the land in 1994. it requested the annulment of the planning decision; in the alternative that it be stipulated in the planning decision that the applicant company be compensated for the interference in its quarrying operation; or in the alternative that it be stipulated in the planning decision that the land of thuringia was obliged to take over the quarrying operation, the remaining land and the mining licence. on 2 february 2004, after the federal administrative court had stated that the relevant part of the planning decision was not sufficiently precise, the land modified it. subsequently, the applicant company and the land declared the matter resolved (erledigt) and the federal administrative court therefore decided in 2004 to discontinue the proceedings. on 26 march 2008 the administrative office of thuringia land (landesverwaltungsamt) expropriated the part of the applicant company’s land on which the motorway had been built and decided that the federal government should compensate the applicant company by a payment of some eur 865,000. there was no formal expropriation of the mining licence. both parties requested a judicial review. pursuant to section 124(3) of the federal mining act (bundesberggesetz, see “relevant domestic law”, paragraph 22), mining rights under the terms of that act were granted only on the statutory condition that they would have to yield to a public infrastructure project without compensation. consequently, the actual right to quarry and the linked costs and losses for relocation and the impeded landfill did not generate a compensation claim. it held that the construction of the motorway had not led to a loss of the applicant company’s mining rights but only to a factual impairment in the exercise of those rights which followed from the preference given to transport infrastructure projects. on 14 april 2011 the federal court of justice dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant company. the enterprise could not enjoy more extensive protection under the law than the economic basis it rested on: the mining right. under german mining law, both entitlements needed to be assessed separately. the federal court of justice further acknowledged that quarrying was de facto no longer possible.
the applicants were or are still detained in korydallos prison in athens. 30 was released on 5 july 2013, applicant no. 33 was released on 4 october 2013, applicant no. 34 was released on 10 may 2013 and applicant no. 35 was transferred to larissa prison on 20 june 2013. the applicants alleged that the prison had held 2,400 prisoners while it had been designed to accommodate 700. the applicants had been detained in wings a, b, d and e in various cells which all had measured 9 sq. access to natural light and ventilation had been inadequate. in addition, there had been insufficient heating and hot water. healthy prisoners had been held together with sick prisoners, resulting in their exposure to contagious diseases. there had been no adequate medical care, in particular as regards psychological and physical health. more specifically, inmates had been required to stay in their cells as follows: from 6.30 p.m. (on average) to 8.30 a.m. and from 11.30 a.m. to 2.45 p.m. every day. they had had to take their meals, which were of poor quality and nutritional value, inside their cells. on 21 june 2013 the applicants along with other prisoners lodged a complaint with the prison authorities, protesting about their conditions of detention, but did not receive any reply. every cell had been furnished with a washbasin, a toilet, wooden shelves, a table and chairs. the cells had been regularly disinfected and had been cleaned twice a day by cleaning crews consisting of detainees. as regards prisoners’ meals, the government submitted the menu of two random weeks to demonstrate that they had been comprised of a variety of food. meals had been served in the cells and prisoners had eaten at in-cell tables. prisoners had been able to play sport and each prisoner had had a personal television set with a headset. in cases of emergency, inmates had been transferred to the korydallos prison hospital or to an external hospital.
the first applicant is a professional photographer. electronic surveillance had showed that he had exchanged email messages with an alleged accomplice whose email account was hosted by a bulgarian internet service provider. they discussed the receipt of the photographs of two people. according to the available information, he had received assistance from the first applicant. the officers searched the house with restraint, specifically endeavouring not to frighten the two children. between 10.55 and 11.05 a.m. they searched his car, from which they did not seize anything. the officers then put the first applicant in a police car and drove to the photography studio, very close to the corner of a busy pedestrian street in the centre of plovdiv, which they searched between 11.35 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. they again refused to allow the first applicant to acquaint himself with the search warrant. according to the record of that search, the officers seized three desktop computers, two video cameras, two still cameras, several flash memory cards, flash memory drives, and cash. the officers then took the first applicant to a police station for a “conversation”. according to the first applicant, he was kept in handcuffs the whole time. she kept calling her daughters and trying to call her husband throughout the day. in his report, submitted the following day, 21 march 2014, the expert said that he had copied all the files from two of the cards and that the third card did not contain any files. on 6 june 2014 the investigator asked the same expert to copy the data from the laptop computer seized in the applicants’ house to an external hard drive and to inspect the three desktop computers seized in the photography studio for the presence of software or files which could be used for the forging of documents. the next day, 21 march 2014, those items were given back to the first applicant. the remainder of the seized items were given back to the first applicant a little more than three months after the seizure, on 18 june 2014, immediately after their contents had been inspected by the expert (see paragraph 21 above). on 9 july 2014 the police sent the case file to the plovdiv district prosecutor’s office, recommending that the proceedings be discontinued. on 2 september 2014 that office disagreed and instead decided to stay the proceedings on the grounds that the author of the presumed offence had not been identified. on 10 september 2014 it sent the case file back to the police for further investigation. it appears that the proceedings are still pending. neither the first nor the second applicant has been charged with an offence.
on 28 april 1993 the applicant rented a municipally-owned shop in the town of primorsko. the shop consisted of a metal structure built on a concrete foundation on a municipally-owned plot of land. the last-instance court then observed that the parties were in agreement that, at the time of her privatisation request, the applicant had had a valid rent contract for the shop with the municipal authorities. in the meantime, in march and april 1996, the municipal company managing the shop informed the applicant that she had no lease contract for 1996 and invited her to vacate the premises. on an unknown date in 1997, that company lodged a rei vindicatio claim against the applicant. on an unknown date in 1999, the municipal company sold the shop to a private company. following a complaint lodged by the applicant with the prosecutor, on 27 may 1999 the latter established that the buyer had acted in an abusive manner and ordered the police to assist the applicant in regaining possession of the shop. according to the applicant, after she had re-entered the property she discovered that the electricity supply had been cut off. in a final judgment of 14 october 2003, the supreme court of cassation dismissed that claim, confirming the reasoning in the lower court’s judgment. according to the government, they were listed and taken for safekeeping. on 18 october 2006 and 22 may 2008 respectively the applicant again requested primorsko municipal council to examine her privatisation proposal. the agency nonetheless held that the municipality was obliged to comply with court judgments. in february 2011, the applicant lodged a claim with the burgas administrative court for damages against the primorsko municipal authorities for their failure to implement the final judgments in her favour. in the first set of proceedings, in which she challenged the mayor’s order of 14 february 2006 that the shop be demolished (see paragraph 16 above), the applicant sought damages for loss of opportunity (пропуснати ползи). the court dismissed the applicant’s claim and terminated the proceedings. as to the merits, the court held that the claim for pecuniary damages was unjustified and also that there was no causal link between the municipal council’s refusal to privatise the shop and the applicant’s claims for loss of financial opportunity as a result of the impossibility of buying the land and building on it. as regards the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damages, the court accepted it as justified on the basis of the evidence submitted during the proceedings (see paragraph 24 above). importantly, the obligation on the municipal authorities to privatise property under the privatisation act existed only vis-à-vis individuals who met the conditions stipulated under that act. the applicant, however, was not among those persons. the applicant sought, alternatively, a reduction in those costs.
the applicants were domestic court judges. it decided to make submission to parliament to have the applicant dismissed from the post of judge for “breach of oath”. objections raised by the applicant were rejected as unsubstantiated. on 26 may 2010 the hcj established that the applicant had breached the judicial oath. on 17 june 2010 parliament voted for the dismissal of the applicant and adopted a resolution to that effect. the applicant instituted proceedings in the hac challenging the second resolution of parliament. the hcj noted that the applicant had wrongly applied an interim measure in a case where the ministry of justice had been the defendant. it concluded that the violation had cast doubt on the applicant’s objectivity and impartiality, and suggested that he had not duly performed his duties and had dishonoured the judicial profession. on 15 september 2010 the hac considered the case. on 23 december 2010 parliament once again voted for the dismissal of the applicant (on the basis of the hcj’s decision of 26 may 2010) and adopted a resolution to that effect. on 5 july 2011 the hac considered the case and rejected the claim as unsubstantiated. objections raised by the applicant were dismissed as unfounded. on 19 may 2011 the applicant applied to the hac challenging the hcj’s decision and the parliamentary resolution concerning his dismissal. having regard to those facts, the hcj found that the applicant had neglected his professional duties, dishonoured the judicial profession and had to be dismissed. on 12 april 2012 parliament voted for the applicant’s dismissal and adopted a resolution to that effect. by several decisions the hac refused to open proceedings, noting that the applicant had failed to prepare and submit his claim in accordance with the requirements of the caj. the applicant instituted proceedings before the hac, challenging the parliamentary resolution on his dismissal. on 27 june 2012 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim as unsubstantiated. the hcj found that the applicant had committed numerous procedural errors when reviewing, under newly discovered circumstances, a case involving local authorities. on 4 july 2012 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim against the hcj as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in lviv. between march 1995 and july 1996 the applicant underwent outpatient treatment for overactive thyroid at the state oncology centre in lviv. in july 1996 the applicant’s health deteriorated; she was examined at the state endocrinology centre in lviv and was diagnosed with hypothyroidism. from 13 november to 10 december 1996 the applicant underwent inpatient treatment for hypothyroidism at the endocrinology centre. eventually, the applicant lost her thyroid and was recognized as suffering from the second highest official degree of disability. on 10 october 1997, at the applicant’s request, dr s. issued her a certificate stating that throughout 1996 the applicant’s treatment included injections of a radiopharmaceutical, namely radioactive iodine j-131. dr s. did not specify the dosage or dates on which the applicant had received the injections. the department invited the applicant to undergo a medical examination at one of the hospitals in lviv, however she refused. that being the case, the treatment mentioned in the certificate of 10 october 1997 had been inadequate. the department recommended the oncology centre to dismiss dr s. for that reason. shortly afterwards dr s. retired from the oncology centre of her own motion. in july 1998 the applicant complained to the lviv prosecutor’s office that dr s. had treated her with j-131, that the treatment had been inadequate and that it had destroyed her thyroid. to support her complaint, the applicant submitted the certificate of 10 october 1997. in january 1999 an official investigation was launched into the applicant’s complaint which was carried out initially by the prosecutors and later by the police. in the course of the investigation the applicant, dr s. and a number of other persons were questioned. also, several forensic examinations were performed. a number of decisions were taken rejecting the applicant’s complaint principally for the reason that, according to the forensic reports, it was impossible to establish the cause of the destruction of the applicant’s thyroid. those decisions were eventually quashed for incomplete investigation. the most recent decision in that regard was taken by the frankivskyy district court in lviv on 18 january 2016, by which it instructed the police to carry out further investigation in the applicant’s case, finding inter alia that the police had failed to examine all pertinent evidence and that an additional forensic examination was necessary. the investigation has not been completed to date.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in kaunas. in march 2008 the applicant’s mother passed away. at the time of her death, her estate consisted of an apartment, a car, and cash savings of 6,360 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 1,842 euros (eur)). brought a claim against the applicant before the kaunas district court. submitted that the applicant owed her ltl 14,488 (approximately eur 4,196) in maintenance payments for their son which he had not paid because he had been insolvent. argued that by renouncing his part of the inheritance the applicant had violated her rights as a creditor because the inherited property could have been used to cover the applicant’s debt. in march 2009 the kaunas district court decided to examine v.l. it held that the applicant had acted in bad faith by renouncing the inheritance while being insolvent and owing money to the claimants. the applicant appealed against that judgment. was given ten days to correct the deficiencies in her appeal. on 28 january 2010 the kaunas district court held that d.l. had not submitted a corrected appeal within that time-limit so it considered that she had not appealed (see paragraph 25 below). ’s appeals had been referred to the kaunas regional court, and he was asked to submit a reply to d.l. the applicant sent a letter to the kaunas regional court requesting a copy of the appeal. he received it on 10 april 2010 and submitted a reply on 16 april 2010. the kaunas regional court also found that since his mother’s death the applicant had been using the car previously owned by her and on that basis the court concluded that the applicant had de facto accepted the inheritance (see paragraph 21 below). brought a new claim against the applicant and his sister. that judgment was not appealed against and became final. in march 2011 the applicant submitted a complaint to the commission on judicial ethics and discipline concerning the judge of the kaunas district court who had examined the civil case (see paragraph 10 above). ’s appeal to the kaunas regional court because that appeal had not been submitted in accordance with procedural rules (see paragraph 11 above).
the applicants, mr khamtokhu and mr aksenchik, were born in 1970 and 1985 respectively. they are currently serving life sentences in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia. on 14 december 2000 the supreme court of the adygea republic found the first applicant guilty of multiple offences, including escape from prison, attempted murder of police officers and state officials, and illegal possession of firearms, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 19 october 2001 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal. on 26 march 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the appeal judgment of 19 october 2001 by way of supervisory review and remitted the matter for fresh consideration. on 30 june 2008 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction on appeal. the court reclassified some of the charges against him but the life sentence remained unchanged. on 28 april 2010 the tomsk regional court found the second applicant guilty on three counts of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 12 august 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld that conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in skuodas. the applicant submitted that he did not remember hitting the children “because everything had happened very fast”. on the same day the website of lietuvos rytas carried an article headlined “after horrific accident in skuodas region [the minister of the interior] suggests [the police commissioner general] should resign”. especially as this was not the first time that police officers, who are supposed to stop traffic violations, have themselves caused terrible accidents. on 12 november 2007 the police commissioner general and the minister of the interior resigned. a crime committed by an officer cannot be a simple statistical fact. it must be thoroughly examined and especially strictly evaluated (kruopščiai ištirtas ir itin griežtai įvertintas). many more articles in the press reported on the accident, the suspicion that the applicant had driven while being drunk, the funerals of the three children, reactions within the village, public protests in front of skuodas police station, previous traffic accidents caused by police officers, and the resignations of the minister of the interior and the police commissioner general. however, he stated that he had not been drunk and had not exceeded the speed limit. he also argued that the accident had been caused by the weather and the reckless actions of some of the children. had stopped after lunch showed the applicant buying two more bottles of vodka. several witnesses – the waitress from the restaurant, some of the applicant’s colleagues, and people who had been present when the accident had happened – stated that the applicant had looked and sounded drunk. who had been driving in the car behind the applicant, testified that he himself had been going at around 100 km/h but had been unable to keep up with the applicant. by failing to do so, he had breached article 144 of the criminal code (see paragraphs 29-30 below). the court also took the applicant’s character and his behaviour during and after the accident into account: he had been under the influence of alcohol, three people had died as a result of his actions, he had fled from the scene of the accident, had not expressed any remorse, had attempted to mislead the court by providing contradictory testimony, and his actions had discredited the authority of the police. as a result, the klaipėda district court held that the applicant’s punishment should be close to the maximum provided by law (see paragraph 29 below). among other things, he argued that he had not received a fair trial because of a media campaign against him. on 5 december 2008 the klaipėda regional court partly amended the first-instance judgment. however, the klaipėda regional court accepted the applicant’s argument that the age of the victims should not have been considered as an aggravating circumstance because the criminal offence had not been premeditated. the prohibition on driving a vehicle for three years was upheld.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vilnius. on 5 march 2009 the applicant and his grandmother’s neighbour, 88‑year-old j.s., signed a contract on lifelong maintenance (išlaikymo iki gyvos galvos sutartis). transferred the rights to her apartment to the applicant, who undertook to take care of her until she died by providing her with food and medication, looking after her apartment, walking her dog, and providing any other necessary assistance. lodged an application with a court to terminate the contract on the grounds that the applicant had not fulfilled his obligations and had not been taking proper care of her. the applicant objected to the termination and argued that he had complied with the terms of the contract. relying on the testimony of several witnesses, on 29 january 2010 the vilnius regional court, in an oral hearing at which both the applicant and j.s. ’s application and annulled the contract. the applicant appealed, arguing that he had complied with the terms of the contract and that it should therefore not have been terminated. on 11 october 2010 the court of appeal held an oral hearing at which j.s. ’s lawyer was present but the applicant and his lawyer were not. according to the government, a notification letter was sent to the applicant on 21 september 2010. during the hearing the court noted that the applicant had been notified of the hearing (apie posėdį pranešta) and proceeded to examine the case in his absence. the court of appeal delivered its judgment on 22 october 2010, upholding the first-instance judgment in its entirety. the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court. he complained, inter alia, that he had not been duly notified of the hearing before the court of appeal and had thus been unable effectively to defend his interests. the applicant submitted that he had received the notification about the time and place of the hearing by standard (non-registered) post only on 14 october 2010, when he had found it in his letter box. however, on 4 november 2010 the supreme court refused to examine the applicant’s cassation appeal as raising no important legal questions. the applicant lodged two other cassation appeals, but on 6 december 2010 and 10 january 2011 the supreme court refused to examine them, citing the same grounds as previously.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in tržišče. his company runs a car repair shop which is also authorised to remodel cars intended to be used for competition. he was also suspected of the criminal offences of forgery, certifying false documents as genuine and smuggling. the applicant requested the return of the car several times because he needed it for future competitions from which he could not withdraw owing to contractual obligations towards his sponsors. on 19 march 2003 the novo mesto district court approved the request. on the same day he competed in a hill climb race with the leased car. on 27 may 2003 the customs office issued a seizure order in respect of the same car on suspicion that the applicant had in december 2002 avoided paying duties when importing the car into slovenia. the car’s number plates and the metallic plate with the chassis number had then been put on the fiat punto 1.6 kit car. on 4 july 2003 the decision on the amount of customs duties to be paid by the applicant was issued. on 7 july 2003 the applicant paid the customs duties and the car was returned to him. on 30 june 2004 the proceedings for customs offences were discontinued because prosecution had in the meantime become time-barred. he claimed eur 74,600, the amount he had paid to lease another car. at a hearing held on 23 april 2007 the district public prosecutor withdrew the charges against the applicant. on 21 august 2007 the ljubljana district court dismissed the applicant’s application to reopen the proceedings. such a process included obtaining new approval papers and the registration of the vehicle as a special vehicle. he pointed out that he had finished that process and obtained all the necessary documents once the car had been returned to him. the search warrant had been general and lacking in precision and therefore could not be subjected to any scrutiny. however, the court found that the causal link between the unlawful seizure and the damage incurred by the applicant had been broken because the applicant would in any event have been unable to use the car for several reasons. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija), challenging the conclusions of the court in respect of the break in the causal link and arguing that the loss had already been incurred before the issue of customs duties had arose. on 17 december 2009 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, confirming that the link in causality had been broken because the applicant had imported some of the car parts in violation of customs regulations.
in 1961 the applicants’ predecessors were deprived of certain land in favour of the state. on 26 january 2006 the niš municipal court ordered pik niš (the debtor), a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital, as the end user of that land, to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of the compensation for the land in question. on 25 october 2006 and 1 february 2007 respectively, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicants the enforcement costs. this judgment became both, final and enforceable by 16 august 2006. only one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, never lodged an enforcement request. on 3 june 2009 the niš commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor (st. only one applicant, ms milica nikolić jajčević, duly submitted her claims therein. these insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 2 march 2009, 31 august 2009 and 9 june 2010 respectively, all applicants lodged their constitutional appeals. on 17 march 2011, 4 april 2012 and 23 may 2012, respectively, the constitutional court found a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in respect of all applicants, except mr tomislav đorđević. however, the court did not award the applicants any damages, merely stating that the applicants “had not claimed non-pecuniary damages”. the constitutional court dismissed the appeal in respect of one applicant, mr tomislav đorđević, since he had failed to request enforcement of the judgment in question.
the applicants – a married couple – were born in 1967 and 1955 respectively and live in colletorto. on 16 february 2011 the russian clinic certified that the second applicant’s seminal fluid had been used for the embryos to be implanted in the surrogate mother’s womb. the second applicant, who had remained in italy, was able to communicate with her regularly via internet. on the same date the minors court appointed a guardian ad litem (curatore speciale) and opened proceedings to make the child available for adoption. on 16 may 2011 the minors court placed the child under guardianship at the request of the public prosecutor. the applicants challenged the measures in respect of the child. following a request of the minors court on 10 may 2011, the applicants were visited by a team of social workers on 12 may 2011. their report, dated 18 may 2011, indicated that the applicants were viewed positively and respected by their fellow citizens, and that they had a comfortable income and lived in a nice house. on 1 august 2011 the second applicant and the child underwent dna testing. the result of these tests showed that there was no genetic link between them. following the outcome of these tests, the applicants sought an explanation from the russian clinic. as part of the proceedings to make the child available for adoption which were then pending before the minors court (see paragraph 22 above), the applicants asked a psychologist, dr i., to prepare a report on the child’s well-being. by an immediately enforceable decision of 20 october 2011, the campobasso minors court ordered that the child be removed from the applicants, taken into the care of the social services and placed in a children’s home (casa famiglia). at the present time the only certainty is the identity of the woman who gave birth to the baby. the biological parents of the baby, that is, the man and the woman who provided the gametes, remain unknown. the applicants lodged an appeal (reclamo) before the campobasso court of appeal. no appeal to the court of cassation lay against that decision (see paragraph 68 below). in the public prosecutor’s view, there was therefore no other solution but to proceed with the adoption procedure for the child, and his temporary placement with a foster family had therefore been requested, in accordance with sections 8 and 10 of the adoption act. they were unable to obtain any news of him. it seems that those proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in donetsk, ukraine. at least three people witnessed the fight. the next morning d. was found dead in the vicinity of the applicant’s place of work. on the latter date the district court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on 11 december 2001 the district court took over the case and commenced the trial. eventually on 8 january 2003 the district court terminated the applicant’s study of the case file. the applicant appealed against the rulings of 8 and 27 january 2003, but the result is not clear. accordingly, the case was remitted for fresh consideration. on 13 june 2004 the applicant refused the assistance of his lawyer, alleging the latter’s collusion and incompetence, and on 21 july 2004 the applicant requested that the court appoint another specified lawyer to represent him. in another special ruling given on the same day, the court informed the head of police of its subordinates’ failure to bring the applicant to the courthouse for the hearings scheduled for 9 march, 28 and 29 july and 2 august 2004 notwithstanding the court’s requests; such a failure, according to the court, had delayed the examination of the applicant’s case. in support of his claim, the applicant submitted a copy of the district court’s letter of the same date requesting that the sizo administration provide them with a room in which to pronounce the judgment to the applicant. from 7 october 2004 to 28 february 2005 the applicant familiarised himself with the case file. the text of the appellate court’s decision states that the hearing was held in the presence of the applicant and the prosecutor; no indication of the applicant’s lawyer’s presence at the hearing can be found. on 25 october 2007 the supreme court of ukraine, sitting in camera, rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law. 2948 (акт судово‑медичного освідування) concluded that these injuries had been caused two or three days before the examination, during a fight or in self‑defence. the applicant denies that he had made that statement. subsequently the applicant repeatedly asked the prosecutor to institute criminal proceedings against certain specified policemen and the investigator, but to no avail. in fact, a copy of the decision of 20 june 2002 was not sent to him until 11 june 2008. on 7 february 2006 the district court remitted the case to the prosecutor in compliance with the appellate court’s instructions. according to the government, the prosecutor sent the copies of the earlier decisions of 13 april and 20 june 2002 to the court and the latter was satisfied with them.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in riga. on 19 july 2000 the cabinet of ministers issued order no. she requested the restoration of her property rights to the whole nationalised real estate. however, she had not completed the process owing to ill health. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 29 february 2001. at the time the judgment was adopted the ministry of finance had not been registered as the owner of the contested property (see paragraph 10 above). was registered in the land register as the owner of both plots of land. on 21 and 22 may 2001 she sold the contested property to the applicant for 39,000 latvian lati (lvl) (about 56,000 euros (eur)). the objection was based on the grounds that the jurmala city court had wrongly applied the land reform legislation, that it had not been competent to hear the case and that it had not taken into consideration the important evidence of order no. 349, by which the state had become entitled to the contested property. on 11 january 2002 the ministry of finance brought a property claim with riga regional court, acting as a first-instance court, against the applicant and v.p.e. 349 (see paragraph 41 below), the riga regional court recognised that the state had acquired the contested property in 2000. ’s claim to the land, but not the buildings. they had allegedly already been transferred to the state. the senate agreed that the appellate court had erred in considering that the contracts concluded between the applicant and v.p.e. on 12 november 2003 the supreme court again decided to annul the purchase contracts concluded between v.p.e. the senate noted, inter alia, that the appellate court had ignored the applicant’s argument that it was necessary to decide on a reversal of the execution of the judgment of the jurmala city court. on 1 december 2004 the supreme court adopted a new judgment following the remittal. the ministry of finance, being the lawful owner of the contested property, could file a property claim against any person who had taken possession of its property. on 25 august 2005 a land register judge rectified the data and entered the judgment of 23 march 2005 as the basis of the ministry of finance’s title to the contested property.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in simferopol. in 1990 the applicant graduated from the ukrainian printing and publishing institute with a diploma in technological engineering. in june 1997 the applicant asked n., the director of tavrida, to place him on the reserve list for promotion to an engineering position corresponding to his qualifications. on 6 march 2000 this application was refused. the defendant company further noted that as the applicant had not provided any subsequent information concerning his state of health, his appointment to an engineering position – which implied managerial responsibilities and supervision of other employees – was considered unwarranted. a copy of the certificate issued by the military enlistment office was provided to the court for examination during the public hearings. however, in his view he lacked the necessary personal skills to occupy a position with managerial responsibilities. all of them, when questioned by b., had suggested that they did not want to have the applicant as their supervisor. in august 2003 the applicant was appointed as a foreman and in april 2006 as an engineer-technologist. in october 2000 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against tavrida seeking damages and apologies from its management for his purported defamation resulting from the dissemination of information concerning the medical grounds for his dispensation from military service. on 23 january 2001 the central district court rejected the applicant’s claim as lacking legal basis. in may 2002 the applicant further amended his claim, alleging that the defendant company had processed his health data in breach of: article 32 of the constitution of ukraine; sections 23 and 46 of the information act; section 40 of the legislative guidelines concerning protection of health in ukraine (“the health protection guidelines”); and sections 3 and 6 of the psychiatric assistance act. on 23 july 2003 the central district court took a fresh decision rejecting the applicant’s claims, referring, again, to article 7 of the civil code and having found that there was nothing unlawful either in tavrida’s or its director’s personal conduct with respect to the processing of the disputed information. without referring to any legal provisions, the court noted that the director had been authorised to know the reasons for the applicant’s dispensation from military service, as this information had been a part of the personnel record compiled and kept by employers in the ordinary course of business. the applicant appealed against this decision. should his employer have had any doubts concerning his psychiatric health, it could have asked the applicant to provide a current medical certificate of fitness for work. in the applicant’s view, this information was not pertinent to his ability to perform engineering duties. on 1 december 2003 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal, upholding the final conclusions reached by the central district court, but having amended the reasoning. in any event, this processing had been lawful, as according to applicable law, the human resources departments were obliged to keep the military duty records of their staff on file and to synchronise them with the military enlistment offices. on 24 january 2007 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1962 and is detained in baku. on 9 june 2008 the assize court (ağır cinayətlər məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the assize court”), sitting as a court of first instance for serious offences, convicted the applicant and his wife of fraud. the applicant was sentenced to nine years’ imprisonment with confiscation of property, and his wife to seven years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years on probation. on 23 january 2009 the baku court of appeal (bakı apellyasiya məhkəməsi – hereinafter “the court of appeal”) overturned the judgment of 9 june 2008, reducing the applicant’s term of imprisonment to seven years and lifting the confiscation of property sanction. the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court (ali məhkəmə – hereinafter “the supreme court”). the prosecutor lodged a cassation protest in respect of the judgment of 23 january 2009 with the supreme court, requesting that it be set aside and the case remitted to the court of appeal. the supreme court scheduled the first hearing for 10 june 2009 but adjourned the proceedings until 24 june 2009 at the request of the applicant’s lawyer who pleaded that he had not enough time to familiarise himself with the case-file and collect further evidence. at the hearing of 24 june 2009 the applicant’s lawyer requested another adjournment referring to health problems and lack of time for familiarisation with the case-file. the supreme court scheduled the next hearing for 1 july 2009. according to the minutes of the hearing of 24 june 2009 provided by the government, the applicant’s lawyer was present when the court declared that his request had been granted and that the proceedings were adjourned until 1 july 2009. on 1 july 2009, having examined the case in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer but in the presence of the prosecutor, the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and accepted the prosecutor’s application for supervisory review in part. the prosecutor made oral submissions during the hearing, seeking the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal. the supreme court upheld the court of appeal’s judgment as regards the applicant’s conviction, but quashed his wife’s conviction, remitting that part of the case to the court of appeal for fresh examination. the supreme court found that proof of the applicant’s guilt had been duly established during the trial in the first-instance court and the court of appeal and that his actions had been properly classified under criminal law. citing article 419.4 of the code of criminal procedure, the supreme court’s decision stated that the examination of the case was possible in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer given that the lawyer had failed to appear despite having been duly notified and the applicant, who was serving his prison sentence, had made no request to attend.
the applicant, mr x, is a sri lankan national of tamil origin, who was born in 1979 and resides in switzerland. in late 2003 he was detained in colombo for about three months. he furthermore stated that he had been threatened and subjected to surveillance after his release. on 2 april 2007 the applicant left sri lanka for italy, where he lived until may 2009. his wife, who had remained in sri lanka, had allegedly been subjected to searches and questioning by the sri lankan police and security forces. she left sri lanka on 13 march 2009 and joined the applicant in italy. on 8 december 2009 the applicant’s wife gave birth to their first child. in a decision taken on 1 june 2011, the federal migration office (“the fmo” – now the state secretariat for migration) held that the applicant and his wife did not fulfil the criteria necessary to obtain refugee status because they had failed to present sufficient evidence in support of their claim. nevertheless, since the fmo had provided the parties with access to these documents at a later date, the federal administrative court concluded that the original violation had been remedied. on 2 november 2012 the applicant and his wife applied to the federal administrative court to have its judgment of 1 october 2012 reconsidered. the applicant claimed that the court had not adequately considered all the relevant evidence. he also submitted a letter from his sister dated 19 october 2012, as well as confirmation from the human rights commission of sri lanka that he had lodged a complaint with that institution on 5 october 2012. upon arrival at the airport in colombo, they were detained and questioned for thirteen hours. according to his wife, when she visited the applicant in prison she noted that his face appeared swollen and concluded that her husband had been beaten. on 21 april 2015 the fmo allowed the applicant to return to switzerland and he did so on 25 april 2015. on an unspecified date the applicant submitted a fresh asylum application to the swiss authorities and on 26 june 2015 his application was granted. furthermore, on 2 august 2013 y’s lawyer had written to the swiss minister of justice and to the director of the migration office asking that all deportations of tamils to sri lanka be suspended. the director of the fmo commissioned an external investigation into the expulsions of the applicant and y. the report delivered by prof. these consisted of, in particular, the prolonged lapse of time between the asylum application (may 2009) and the execution of the deportation order (august 2013); the fact that the situation in sri lanka had changed considerably after the end of the civil war in 2009; the involvement of several fmo employees in different phases of the decision-making process throughout an extended period of time; the fact that the applicant’s hearing had been partly held in a superficial manner and that the authorities had not conducted additional investigations. on 10 december 2013 the fmo adopted an internal report on the arrest of the applicant by the sri lankan authorities.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in uzbekistan. she took the child out of the taxi and the applicant waited in the car. (c)  information provided by the applicant’s mother 37. on 27 june 2014 the applicant’s mother had visited the investigator, k., who had said that the applicant had voluntarily returned to tashkent on 8 june 2014 and had gone to the police with a statement of surrender. that her son had been severely beaten while in detention. it appears that later the applicant withdrew the statement of appeal. the applicant remains imprisoned in uzbekistan. on 29 july 2014 the moscow fms lodged an appeal against the judgment of 12 may 2014. by a letter of 1 july 2014 in reply to the court’s request for information of 10 june 2014, made at the same time as the indication of the interim measures (see paragraph 4 above), the government informed the court that “the relevant state bodies have been informed about the disappearance of the applicant and the indication by the court of the interim measures under rule 39 of the rules of court”. lastly, they noted that the applicant’s representative’s letter of 25 june 2014 (see paragraph 24 above) had been forwarded to the investigative authority for consideration. the russian authorities had not been made aware and could not have known of any risk that the applicant might be kidnapped. (i)  documents issued by the russian authorities(α)  summary of events in chronological order 73. on 10 june 2014 mr t. reported the applicant’s kidnapping to the basmannyy police and made a statement. on 15 january 2015 an investigator with the investigative authority decided to suspend the investigation of case no. on 18 june 2014 the main investigation department of the ministry of the interior of uzbekistan informed the applicant’s father that his son, who had been wanted and “declared guilty in absentia”, had been arrested on 17 june 2014, placed in custody and had been participating in investigative measures. in the course of the interview the applicant stated that he had not been arrested by the russian authorities and that he had voluntarily left moscow to go to uzbekistan to visit his ailing mother. and the applicant, had received copies of documents pertaining to the applicant’s arrest, requested information concerning the border crossing and had identified two men allegedly connected with the applicant who as of november 2014 had been fighting on the side of isis in syria. 4, 7, 9, 10, 14, 18 and 19) ...deaths in custody 12. courts continued to rely heavily on confessions obtained under torture to hand down convictions. judges routinely ignored or dismissed as unfounded defendants’ allegations of torture or other ill-treatment, even when presented with credible evidence.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in syktyvkar, the komi republic. on 31 december 2007 the applicant published an article on his personal website about a local jazz festival and its president, mr y. the article contained a detailed description of the event and scathing criticism of mr y. using various derivatives of mr y.’s surname, the article mocked his professional qualities. the jazz festival was described as being “a shoddy piece of work” and mr y.’s delivery “crappy”. mr y. sued the applicant in defamation, arguing that the article was insulting and harmful to his reputation. on 14 august 2008 the syktyvkar town court found the applicant liable in defamation. the judgment consisted of the text of the article, a summary of the relevant domestic law, a two-page reproduction of the extracts from the article which had been mentioned in the statement of claim and two paragraphs of conclusions. they stated:“using a distorted form of the plaintiff’s patronymic and last name ... breaches the plaintiff’s right to a name and to a good name, which is unacceptable under the law. since the defendant committed a breach of the plaintiff’s intangible assets by way of distorting his patronymic and last name in a negative way, the latter shall have the right to compensation in accordance with article 152 of the civil code. [the contested extracts] undermine the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician because they contain negative information about the plaintiff presented in an affirmative form. pursuant to article 152 § 1 of the civil code, the burden to prove the truth of the allegations is on the defendant, who did not submit any evidence to the court showing that the impugned statements were true.” the town court awarded the plaintiff 5,000 russian roubles (rub) in damages and directed the applicant to publish a retraction on his website. on 23 october 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic dismissed an appeal by the applicant. it endorsed the findings of the lower court in a summary judgment. it held that article 10 of the convention had not been breached because “the defendant published statements on the internet which undermined the honour and dignity of the plaintiff as a person, pedagogue and musician and which contained negative information about him”.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in belgorod. he made his living as a registered private entrepreneur providing legal services. according to the applicant, one original was inserted in the file of a then pending case before a commercial court; the other one was used in submissions before the chief fire protection inspector. he notified the residence registration office about that change. on 13 july 2005 the applicant was informed of the decision to institute criminal proceedings against him. the applicant abruptly put an end to the conversations. on 21 october 2005 the chief officer of the investigating authority issued a decision, under article 210 of the ccrp (see paragraph 52 below), requiring that measures be taken to locate the applicant. thus, he was compelled to follow them to the police station to be taken before the investigator. following escorting to the competent official, it is necessary to draw up, within three hours, an arrest record. the applicant appealed, arguing as follows. thus, the police’s actions could not be declared unlawful ...[the applicant] was kept in the police station and before the investigator for less than three hours, which means that he was not ‘arrested’ [or] ‘detained’ within the meaning of article 92 of the ccrp.” it appears that the investigating officer issued summonses for further interviews to be held on 28 and 31 july 2006. it also appears that the applicant did not attend the interview on 31 july 2006. a further decision to bring the applicant in for interview was issued on 1 november 2006. on 25 december 2006 the police arrived at the applicant’s office at around 2.45 p.m. and compelled him to follow them to the police station instead of the investigations department, which was situated elsewhere. by a judgment of 15 january 2007, the district court rejected his claim. apparently, on an unspecified date this decision was quashed. according to the applicant, on 13 october 2006 several officers, including the investigator, arrived in the office. by a judgment of 23 october 2006 the sverdlovskiy district court of belgorod dismissed the claims. before the beginning of the search [the applicant] made no request for counsel while having had access to the search order ...under [articles 38 and 182 of the ccrp] it is within the investigator’s purview to decide whether a search is opportune and, if so, to issue the relevant order, except for a search of residential premises.
the applicants were born in 1977, 1972 and 1987 respectively and lived before their convictions in krasnoyarsk, cheboksary and vologda region. the facts of the applications, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 3 may 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed a crime. on 11 june and 11 november 2013, and 14 february 2014 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 30 november 2013, 28 february and 28 may 2014 respectively. on 4 april 2014 the district court convicted the applicant of robbery and sentenced him to three years and six months’ imprisonment. during the hearings before the district court on 11 june, 26 july, 1 october, and 11 november 2013, and 14 february, 14, 21 and 27 march, and 2, 3 and 4 april 2014 the applicant was held in a metal cage. on 23 june 2015 the krasnoyarsk regional court upheld the judgment of 4 april 2014 on appeal. on 30 june 2011 the novocheboksarsk town court of the chuvash republic convicted the applicant of embezzlement and the illegal acquisition, storage, transfer, transportation and possession of firearms and sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment. on 11 february 2013 the leninskiy district court of cheboksary (“the district court”) convicted the applicant of fraud committed through abuse of position and sentenced him to a fine. on 1 august 2013 the supreme court of the chuvash republic reduced the applicant’s fine. however, on 18 october 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the chuvash republic granted a cassation appeal lodged by the prosecutor of the chuvash republic and quashed the judgment of 11 february 2013 and the appeal decision of 1 august 2013. the case was remitted to the district court for fresh examination. on 29 april 2014 the district court convicted the applicant on nine counts of fraud, acquitted him of a further four counts of fraud and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment, taking into account the fact that the applicant had not fully served the sentence imposed on him on 30 june 2011. on 25 june 2014 the supreme court of the chuvash republic reclassified the nine counts of fraud on which the applicant had been convicted and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. as regards the four counts of fraud of which the applicant had been acquitted, the supreme court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination. during the proceedings before the district court and the supreme court of the chuvash republic the applicant was confined in a metal cage. on 17 september 2014 the cherepovets town court of the vologda region (“the town court”) remanded the applicant in custody. on 10 november 2014 the town court extended the applicant’s detention. on 12 december 2014 the town court convicted the applicant of inflicting grievous bodily harm and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the applicant was confined in a metal cage when the custodial measure was applied to him, when it was subsequently extended and during the trial.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in bar (montenegro). on 6 february and 4 march 2009 the applicant entered croatia from montenegro and deposited – on each occasion – the sum of eur 90,000 with a commercial bank in dubrovnik, without declaring these amounts to the custom authorities. the money laundering prevention office stated that the funds had originated from the two above-mentioned cash deposits of eur 90,000 each. on the same day, 2 june 2009, administrative offence proceedings (prekršajni postupak) were instituted against the applicant before the administrative offences council (vijeće za prekršajni postupak) of the ministry for his failure to declare the sum of eur 180,000 while entering croatia, an administrative offence as defined in section 40(1) of the foreign currency act and section 74 of the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism act (see paragraphs 16-17 below). on 1 july, 17 august and 17 september 2009 hearings were held before the administrative offences council. in his defence, the applicant explained that he had sold business premises in montenegro, and that he had intended to use the money gained from that sale to purchase a flat in podgorica (montenegro) from a croatian national, s.k., who had insisted that the money be paid to him from a croatian bank account. the applicant provided a written copy of the contract of sale in respect of his business premises dated 25 december 2007, and a preliminary agreement relating to the purchase of the flat in podgorica dated 18 march 2009. by a decision of 19 october 2009 the administrative offences council found the applicant guilty of the administrative offence in question and fined him 10,000 croatian kunas (hrk). the administrative offences council held that the evidence presented did not corroborate the applicant’s defence. the administrative offences council also held that its decision to apply the protective measure was influenced by the fact that the applicant had been unable to provide sufficient evidence to justify his earlier money transfers to accounts in tunisia and jordan belonging to s.k. ’s wife, totalling eur 882,900 in the period between 2005 and 2008, and the fact that he had stated that he had opened a non-resident’s account in his name in order to do a favour to s.k., namely in order to transfer money from the sale of s.k. ’s wife’s house, deposited on his account, to s.k. earlier transfers from [the applicant’s] account and the motives for opening that non-resident’s account also influenced the decision to impose the protective measure ...in determining the amount of the fine the [administrative offences] council took into account [the applicant’s] admission of guilt and the absence of a criminal record as mitigating circumstances, and the value of the object of the administrative offence as an aggravating circumstance. [ therefore] it imposed a fine which corresponds to the gravity of the offence.” the applicant appealed by arguing, inter alia, that the imposition of the protective measure of confiscation was disproportionate in the circumstances and therefore contrary to article 1 of protocol no. in so arguing, he referred to the court’s case-law, in particular to the case of gabrić v. croatia (no. by a decision of 23 december 2009 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the administrative offences council’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of his constitutionally protected right of ownership.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1986 and is detained in sterlitamak, perm region. on 2 february 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic quashed the applicant’s conviction and remitted the case for fresh examination. on 19 february 2010 the sovetskiy district court scheduled the first hearing for 4 march 2010. according to the applicant, they never received this letter. this letter was not received by the bailiffs until 20 march 2010. on 19 march 2010 the trial court noted that the applicant had again failed to appear and decided to remand him in custody in absentia. according to the applicant, he and his lawyer had not been notified about the hearing of 19 march 2010. he was placed in a temporary detention centre in tuymazynskiy district. later on the same day, he was transferred to ufa and the judge of the sovetskiy district court was informed accordingly. the applicant and his lawyer were neither notified of nor present at this hearing. on 10 may 2010 the applicant supplemented the appeal lodged against the decision of 19 march 2010. on 26 august 2010 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic confirmed the decision of 19 march 2010, finding that the applicant had been duly apprised of the hearings of 4 and 19 march 2010 at his place of residence. on 15 march 2011 the trial court found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to four years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in krasnokamensk, krasnoyarsk region. on 28 september 2010 the justice of the peace of judicial district no. he also held that, once arrested, the applicant should be remanded in custody. on 30 may 2013 the applicant’s name was placed on the international search list because he had fled from his place of residence. on 11 july 2013 the applicant was arrested. he also referred to article 6 § 2 of the convention, arguing that the wording used in the detention order ran counter to the presumption of innocence.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1957 respectively. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicants’ relatives drove to the side to let the ifvs pass. a number of residents of berkat-yurt witnessed the incident. it had then gone through the checkpoint in staraya sunzha. traces of blood and brain matter were found inside the damaged vehicle. the case file was given the number 56155. it also ordered a post-mortem examination of shamkhan abubakarov, badrudi abubakarov and mr a.el. on 1 october 2002 the investigators questioned mr b.s. they had immediately gone to the damaged vehicle and found three people dead inside. 20102 to be provided information on the provenance of ifv no. who stated, amongst other things, that he had learnt of the incident shortly after it had happened. the witness also stated that on 2 or 3 october 2002 mr a.e., the driver of the ifv had fled the scene. on an unspecified date prior to 5 june 2006 the investigation was resumed. on 25 october 2006 the deputy district prosecutor overruled the decision to suspend the proceedings as unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed and the investigators take a number of steps, including identifying the owners of ifv nos. on 30 october 2006 the applicants were granted victim status in the criminal proceedings. on various dates in october and november 2006 the investigators questioned a number of residents of berkat-yurt, all of whom stated that they had arrived at the scene shortly after the incident and that, according to eyewitnesses, the volga had been driven over by a military ifv. who stated that at about 4 p.m. on 30 september 2002 he had seen a military convoy on the road between staraya sunzha and berkat-yurt and a volga at the side of the road letting the convoy pass by. on 25 november 2006 the investigation was suspended again.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in yuzhnoukrayinsk. at the time of the events he was the director of a private joint stock company. in november 2003 the local court delivered a judgment ordering a debt recovery by a certain mr ts. on 9 march 2004 she revoked her power of attorney. the car, however, remained with the applicant. on 30 march 2004 the applicant was arrested in his office as a criminal suspect. he was placed in the arbuzynka temporary detention facility (“the arbuzynka itt”). on the same day the applicant was released subject to a commitment not to leave the town. on 3 june 2004 and 5 april 2005 the mykolayiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) and the supreme court, respectively, upheld that ruling. he claimed compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage in respect of the following four issues: his arbitrary criminal prosecution, his unlawful arrest, the allegedly unlawful search of the company’s premises, and the seizure of the car as having amounted to his deprivation of property. more specifically, the applicant complained that there had been no reasons to arrest him and that he had never been summoned to the police. the applicant therefore claimed that that car should be returned to him. as a result of the unlawfully instituted criminal proceedings (whereas mr ts. had indicated a lower amount, usd 1,700, in his receipt – see paragraph 8 above). by a letter of 6 july 2006 the court of appeal sent the applicant copies of the defendants’ appeals and informed him that he could comment on them by 14 july 2006. as indicated on the post stamp, it was dispatched on 14 july 2006. the applicant received that letter on 19 july 2006. the appellate court awarded the applicant uah 5,000 (around 750 euros at the time) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage and uah 1,000 in costs and expenses. he complained, in particular, that he had received the summons on the day of the hearing before the appellate court, which prevented him from participating in it. on 26 november 2007 the kherson regional court of appeal, acting as a court of cassation, rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law with broadly couched reasoning that it was unsubstantiated.
the applicants were born in 1970 and 1935 respectively and live in sofia and ruse. father of the second applicant and grandfather of the first applicant, and his son p.r., father of the first applicant, owned a plot of land and a house in popovo. by two decisions of the mayor of 9 may 1988 and 27 february 1989 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building. the decisions, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – hereinafter “the tupa”), provided that d.d. was to be compensated with a two-room flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct on the expropriated plot, and p.r. with the right to build a house on municipally owned land. in 1989 the expropriated house was pulled down and in 1994 construction work was started on the site. by a supplementary decision of 19 april 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor specified the exact location and size of the future flat to be offered to d.d. no supplementary decision was issued however with regard to the right to build a house on municipally owned land which was due to p.r. passed away in 1998 and 2002 respectively, and d.d. this left the two applicants as heirs of d.d., and the first applicant as sole heir of p.r. the mayor did not respond, which under domestic law was considered a tacit refusal. after the applicants applied for judicial review, the refusal was upheld by the courts, in judgments of the targovishte administrative court (“the targovishte court”) and the supreme administrative court of 9 march and 11 july 2006 respectively. following that, on two occasions (3 june 2009 and 15 june 2010) the mayor refused expressly to revoke the expropriation order in respect of the applicants’ property. after the applicants challenged these refusals, they were found to be null and void by the courts, the first one in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 21 may 2010, and the second one in a judgment of the varna administrative court of 25 march 2011. the courts, finding that the fresh refusals were in contradiction with the earlier court judgments in cases between the same parties, sent the case back to the mayor, instructing him once again to examine it under paragraph 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act. in april 2011 an expert commission of the municipality assessed the value of the expropriated property and set the amount of compensation to be provided to the applicants at 67,300 bulgarian levs (bgn). that sum was paid to the applicants in june 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and is currently serving a prison sentence in dnipro. the applicant was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment with confiscation of property. during the investigation and trial the applicant either refused to give any statements concerning the charges against him or denied that he had committed any crimes. the applicant provided no document in that regard. in this connection, the applicant underwent a medical examination, according to which he had no mental illness. the applicant’s appeal against his conviction 11. the applicant’s request was granted and he was given the file to study on many occasions between march 2006 and february 2007. allegedly that period was too short and sometimes the applicant had to study the case file together with several other convicts in one cell. consequently, he did not familiarize himself with the entire case file. on 17 march 2006 the applicant lodged his initial appeal with the supreme court, challenging the judgment of 20 december 2005. the applicant mainly argued that his conviction had been based on false evidence. in july 2006 the applicant asked the court of appeal to appoint a lawyer to assist him in the preparation of his appeal and in the proceedings before the supreme court, as he had no money to hire a lawyer. the applicant lodged a similar request with the odesa bar association. on 30 october 2007 the supreme court, having heard the applicant’s and his co-defendants’ appeals, found that the trial had been held in compliance with the procedure and that the first-instance court’s findings of fact had been based on sufficient evidence. in particular, on 22 november 2007 he was allegedly beaten by the sizo guards and sustained a head injury. between 22 november and 21 december 2007 the applicant allegedly could not sent letters to the court. subsequently, the guards took the applicant for medical examination, which did not reveal any serious health issue. in connection with this incident the applicant was disciplined and placed in an isolation cell for fifteen days. on 7 december 2011 the applicant was disciplined and placed in an isolation cell for fourteen days for having insulted and threatened prison guards. the government stated that the applicant’s letters had been duly dispatched by the sizo and prison authorities and that the prison authorities had joined to those letters copies of the documents from his prison file which the applicant had asked them to send.
the applicants were born in 1944, 1964 and 1966 respectively and live in razgrad. her husband and father of the other two applicants, owned a house with a yard and garage in razgrad. by a decision of the mayor of 28 june 1988 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a residential building. the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство – “the tupa”), provided that the first applicant and h.p. were to be compensated with a flat and a garage. by a supplementary decision of 24 july 1991, based on section 100 of the tupa, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the garage to be offered in compensation, which was to be located in a residential building which the municipality planned to construct. had to pay for the cost of the garage that was not covered by the value of their expropriated property 4,479 old bulgarian levs (bgl). it appears that at the time they did not pay that sum, which has since then devalued significantly. on unspecified dates the flat due to be given to first applicant and h.p. the expropriated house and garage were pulled down. in 1996 the mayor of razgrad offered the first applicant and h.p. the building where the garage offered to them was to be situated was never constructed. in 2006 the municipality authorised the construction of another building by a private investor in the same place, which did not include garages. in a letter dated 18 august 2006 the mayor advised the first applicant and h.p. that they could request financial compensation for their expropriated property in lieu of compensation with a garage. in reply, they stated that they did not want such compensation and insisted on receiving a garage. passed away and was succeeded by the three applicants. on an unspecified date in 2010 the applicants brought an action in tort, seeking pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages for the allegedly unlawful failure on the part of the razgrad municipality to build and provide them with a garage. the action was dismissed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment on 16 november 2011. it noted that the municipality had not acted unlawfully and had offered various solutions which the first applicant and her husband had rejected.
the applicant is a lawyer who also writes articles for various russian law journals and online legal information databases and networks. according to the applicant, his work usually requires extensive scientific research, including in the field of law enforcement in the khabarovsk region. he supported his assertion with copies of contracts with well-known russian publishing houses and owners of a number of legal magazines, including one supervised by the secretariat of the president of the russian federation. under the contracts he undertook the task of writing articles on specific topics of legal and social interest. having received an assignment to write an article on prostitution and the fight against it in the khabarovsk region, on 12 may 2009 the applicant wrote to the head of the khabarovsk region police department by registered letter, asking for statistical data for his research. ...[i] stress that i do not need any specific personal information about individuals found administratively or criminally liable; [i only need] general statistical information for writing a scientific article.” it appears from an acknowledgement of receipt that the letter reached the khabarovsk region police department on 25 may 2009. under russian law, state officials must provide a reply to letters from individuals within thirty days. in the absence of any response, on 26 june 2009 the applicant lodged a claim with the tsentralniy district court of khabarovsk (“the district court”), complaining that the police authorities had failed to provide him with the information he had requested and requesting for access. relying on the information act (see below) and article 10 of the convention, he argued that the officials’ implied refusal to provide him with the information had been unlawful as he had not asked for access to any confidential personal information, state secrets or information related to internal police working methods. he claimed that his request had related purely to statistical data of a general nature collected by the information centre of the khabarovsk region police department (hereinafter “the information centre”). the information centre did not collect such information at the request of private individuals. general statistical data summarised by the information centre was provided to the federal service of state statistics and in particular its regional office for the khabarovsk region, to whom the applicant could apply for the statistical data. the applicant filed copies of his letters from the information centre and statistics service with the district court. under domestic law, the statistics service was tasked with dissemination of official statistical data on a broad variety of subjects, including those falling within the applicant’s field of interest. it also noted that the applicant had failed to obtain the information sought from open sources, such as libraries, archives and the internet. the applicant appealed, arguing, among other things, that the police authorities had exclusive possession of the information sought by him and that he had no other means, including through assistance from the statistics service, of obtaining the necessary data. in addition, he submitted that the fact that his rights and legitimate interests were not affected by the requested information had no bearing on the case as under russian law, it was not only those directly concerned who were granted access to public information. on 16 september 2009 the khabarovsk regional court upheld the judgment of 4 august 2009. relying on section 8(2) of the information act, it concluded that the authorities were not obliged to provide the applicant with the information as it did not touch upon his rights and legitimate interests.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in moscow. on 15 march 1994 the russian ministry of railways (“the mps”) approved the construction of garages alongside the oktyabrskaya railway in moscow. on 14 april 1994 the main directorate for architecture and planning of the architecture and urban development committee of the government of moscow (главное архитектурно-планировочное управление комитета по архитектуре и градостроительству г. on 31 december 1996 the prefect of the local administration gave his approval. that lease agreement remained in force until 31 august 2004. under the agreement the lease was valid until 28 february 2004. the gsk continued to pay the rent due under the lease until 31 july 2007. clause 2.2.5 of the agreement proscribed the construction of permanent structures on the land and provided that temporary structures could be built only upon written approval by the oktyabrskaya railway of the mps. clause 2.2.10 stipulated that at the end of the lease, all temporary structures were to be removed. the district court held as follows:“it follows from the case-file material that on 3 march 2003 the federal state unitary enterprise “oktyabrskaya railway of the mps” and the gsk signed a lease agreement in respect of a plot of land situated within a railway right of way [полоса отвода железной дороги] for the purposes of reimbursement of its maintenance costs, valid until 28 february 2004, which was subsequently extended on the basis of additional agreements. the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 is intended for the operation and development of the railways, [it] is situated within a railway right of way ...before the lease agreement in respect of the railway right of way [between the rzd and the russian federation] was signed, the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 was classified as rail transport land in accordance with the transport land act approved by decision no. 3020-1 of the supreme soviet of the russian federation of 27 december 1991 on the division of state property in the russian federation; and federal law no. 153-fz of 25 march 1995 on the federal railway system. a garage for parking a car by an individual is not a rail transport facility, therefore a plot of land within a railway right of way cannot be considered to be intended for the construction of such a garage (garages). it therefore follows that the plot of land was not provided to the defendant by the owner, and therefore at the present time the defendant has no legal grounds to use federal property. 169 had it not been an unauthorised construction. 169 from the plot of land with cadastral number 77:02:21017:032 ...” 22. the city court held that the law did not provide for the possibility of claiming compensation for the demolition of an unauthorised construction. as the applicant refused to comply voluntarily with the judgment of 21 november 2011, as upheld on appeal on 10 february 2012, the rzd proceeded to demolish his garage. on 13 june 2012 the ostankinskiy district bailiffs’ service was informed accordingly.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in niš. from the applicant’s custody and, in so doing, assaulted the latter physically, knocking her unconscious. on 25 july 2005 the niš municipal court issued an interim custody order requiring that v.c. on 20 september 2005 a new attempt was made to enforce the interim order, this time in the presence of a psychologist from the doljevac social care centre, civilian police officers, the enforcement judge, a bailiff and the applicant. she wanted to take the child immediately, regardless of her behaviour. on 3 october 2005 the first meeting between mother and child was held on the premises of the centre, but the applicant later told the court that it had not been successful because the child was allegedly subjected to pressure by her father. the enforcement of the interim order was to be attempted on 20 march 2006 on the premises of the niš social care centre in the presence of the judge, a psychologist and a teacher from the centre, the applicant and the respondent’s representative. the respondent and the child did not appear. on 29 may 2006 the next enforcement attempt was made. according to his representative, he had not been properly summoned. on 25 december 2006 the court asked the niš mental care institute to prepare an opinion concerning the enforcement of the interim custody order because of the difficulties encountered in the proceedings. the report contained the opinions of a psychologist, a sociologist and a neuropsychiatrist, all of whom had conducted interviews with the child and both her parents. to remain with her father since a separation could prove psychologically detrimental. on 18 august 2008, acting upon the applicant’s initiative, the niš municipal public prosecutor requested the revocation of the respondent’s probation, but withdrew the request on 16 december 2008 because the respondent had in the meantime been granted custody of a.c. himself no longer had any objections to this arrangement. moved to the applicant’s flat shortly thereafter. for failure to make maintenance payments. however, it seems from the documents submitted by the government that the mother-daughter relationship was not well re-established. moved to her father’s home and it appears that she is still living with him by choice. and that those proceedings are still pending.
the applicants were convicted in russia of various crimes. the applicants and their lawyers, except for mr yakupov, whose lawyer was present, were refused leave to attend the appeal hearings on the ground that their presence was unnecessary or without addressing this issue at all. following communication of the cases, the supervisory-review courts quashed the appeal judgments at the prosecutor’s request and remitted the cases for fresh examinations before the appellate courts. in most of the cases the applicants and their lawyers were present at the new appeal hearings. mr trifonov and mr sidelnikov did not ask for leave to appear and did not attend the new hearings, but they were represented by lawyers. detailed information about the applicants’ attendance and dates of the hearings is set out in appendix ii. on 12 november 2002 criminal proceedings were initiated against mr zakhodyakin. since then the criminal proceedings were suspended and reopened several times. on 26 june 2007 the vuktyl town court of the komi republic found the applicant guilty of abuse of office and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. on 24 august 2007 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment on appeal. on 8 october 2008 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 24 august 2007 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 7 november 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007. on 3 october 2012 the presidium of the supreme court of the komi republic quashed the judgment of 7 november 2008 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 18 december 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the judgment of 26 june 2007.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in șopârlița. they handcuffed him with his hands behind his back, dragged him towards a police car, and banged his head against a metal gate owned by a neighbour, m.v. on 3 july 2013 the applicant’s father lodged a criminal complaint against police officers c.b. on the same date the olt prosecutor’s office interviewed both the applicant’s mother and n.b. on 31 october 2013 the olt county forensic medical service examined the applicant and the available medical documents. subsequently, he had been transferred to the hospital’s psychiatric unit and had been sedated. the following day he had started complaining of pain in his cervical spine area, and of paralysis of his right hand. he had been examined and had been diagnosed with a cervical spine injury. most probably, the injury had been caused by a forced rotation movement of the neck when the applicant had been immobilised and handcuffed. however, his statements that his son had not been aggressive and that he had been unaware of the identity of the person who had called the emergency services had not been confirmed by the rest of the evidence adduced in the file. moreover, in such a case, it would have been highly unlikely that an individual would call the emergency services for no reason. according to the prosecutor, those arguments were also supported by the fact that, in the medical report produced by the psychiatric unit of slatina emergency hospital, where the applicant had been taken after the incident, it was stated that the applicant was suffering from a polymorphic personality disorder, which was aggravated by alcohol consumption. the following day he had started complaining of a cervical spine injury, which had eventually required surgical treatment. also, the police officers had stated that they had not hurt the applicant, and had confirmed that he had been drunk, and that he had been transported and admitted to hospital. the applicant challenged the decision of 10 january 2014 before a more senior prosecutor. ’s testimonies, as those witnesses had confirmed the police violence, and the forensic report had acknowledged that his injury had most probably been caused as a result of the forced rotation of his neck. also, the available forensic report did not need to be complemented by an additional report or submitted for approval. they had occurred in circumstances where he had been drunk, violent and extremely agitated, and therefore the police officers could not have controlled their actions towards him. according to a medical report produced by the hospital, he was diagnosed with an organic personality disorder and received treatment for his condition. according to the report, inter alia, the applicant continued to experience movement difficulties.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in tryszczyn. on 2 december 2005 the parties reached a friendly settlement before the district court detailing when the applicant was able to visit the child. had been interfering with his contact visits. the applicant asked the court to order that he be able to see his son twice a month from 10 a.m. on friday to 7 p.m. on sunday; one day at christmas or easter from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. the next day; and three weeks in the summer holidays and one week in the winter holidays. moved to germany with the child without the applicant’s consent. had informed the applicant of their address in germany (the applicant submitted that she had not). had joint custody of j. under polish law. on 14 january 2008 the german central agency communicated the above decisions to the polish ministry of justice. to contact j. when the child was under his care and agreed that he would not see the child on 19 and 20 july 2008 as well as on 18 and 19 july 2009. the applicant contested the conclusions of the opinions. on 19 march 2011 the bydgoszcz district court dismissed the applicant’s application to order that j.’s place of residence be with him, leaving the child in m.k. the court noted that the parties had had strong disagreements, had stopped talking to each other and should both be held responsible for the situation. on 3 november 2011 the bydgoszcz regional court partly granted the appeal lodged by m.k. from 400 polish zlotys (pln) to pln 500 per month. applied to annul the settlement of 29 september 2009. it stated that the applicant would have the right to see j. every other weekend for two hours on saturday and two hours on sunday in a public place and in the presence of m.k. the rodk also proposed that j. should consult a psychologist. at a hearing on 24 june 2014 the applicant declared that he was no longer attending the meetings because of his son’s disruptive and aggressive behaviour. on 8 september 2014 the rodk issued another report which stated that the boy had been loyal to his mother and had turned away from the applicant. the court also noted that the applicant had the possibility to apply for imposing a fine on m.k.
the applicants were accredited journalists who were authorised to report from the national parliament. they pulled the speaker out of the chamber and started forcibly removing the opposition mps. the applicants denied that the reasons for their removal had been explained to them. in a letter of 26 december 2012 addressed to the media, the speaker stated, inter alia:“having regard to the announcements (најави) that the opposition would not allow the budget act to be adopted and that there would be protests and incidents, i requested, under section 43 of the parliament act, that the parliament security service ensure proper work at the session. as speaker, i regret that such a measure regarding the journalists was taken ...” 9. in a letter dated 6 january 2013, the dcps informed the applicants that a group of mps had surrounded the speaker during the incident of 24 december 2012, and had attempted to physically confront him. they had also insulted and threatened him, whilst at the same time damaging technical equipment. however, the disturbance in the chamber had continued. in the circumstances, the speaker had requested, under section 43 of the parliament act (“the act”, see paragraph 17 below), that the parliament’s security service restore order so that the discussions could continue. a smaller group of people in the gallery, including [the applicants], confronted the security officers, disregarded their orders and resisted actively and passively. it was composed of five national members, two of whom were mps. it further included two non-national observers appointed by the european union. they submitted that the parliamentary debate and the related events regarding the approval of the state budget had been of particular public interest. most of the journalists complied with that instruction. at the same time, in front of the parliament building, two opposing groups of people gathered. in the event of disorder, he or she can take several measures (warning, denial of the right to speak, exclusion of mps). ...the legal ground for the impugned measure was section 43 of the parliament act, which specified who was responsible for keeping order in the parliament building – a special security unit, and which authorised the speaker to decide and take measures in the event of disturbance of that order by mps and other external persons participating in the work of parliament. in such circumstances, the parliament security service considered that in order to protect the journalists in the gallery, they should be moved to a safer place where they would not be in danger. accordingly, there was no preconceived idea to prevent the journalists from reporting on the debate. after they left the gallery, [the applicants] and other media representatives were allowed to remain in the parliamentary press centre ... from where they could have followed the live broadcast on the parliament website and on the dedicated tv channel.
the applicant was born in 1940 in troschenreuth, in the former german democratic republic (gdr), and lives in bayreuth. the applicant is the natural and only daughter of mr a.w., she lived in the territory of the former gdr until 1984, while her father lived in the federal republic of germany (frg), having married. the father and the daughter corresponded regularly during that period. between 1954 and 1959, the applicant also visited her father and his wife once a year. thereafter the applicant visited her father on a regular basis until 2007. on 14 january 2009 the applicant applied to the memmingen district court for the right to administer her father’s estate, asserting the incapacity of her father’s wife to protect the applicant’s inheritance due to a grave illness, and notified the district court of her inheritance claims. furthermore, she asked to receive copies of all documents relating to the estate. she asserted that between 2002 and 2007 she had regularly visited her father at his retirement home and had talked to him on the telephone. subsequently, her own health had prevented her from visiting. telephone calls had been impossible because her father’s health had meant he had no longer been able to use a telephone. the retirement home had been in possession of her address and telephone number, and had phoned her on several occasions. in a decision of 28 january 2009 the memmingen district court dismissed the applicant’s application, as there were no indications that the applicant’s father’s wife could not protect the inheritance. in addition, being born before 1 july 1949 and thus not being a statutory heir, she had no right to receive copies of documents about the estate. furthermore, cultural and social changes within society had to be considered when interpreting the basic law. in the court of appeal’s view, the provision did not contravene the basic law, despite german reunification, as the federal constitutional court had held in a decision of 20 november 2003 (file no. on 17 july 2009 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, claiming discrimination as a result of the application of the aforementioned provision. according to her there were no apparent reasons why children born outside marriage should be treated differently from those born within marriage. that was particularly true in her case because she was her father’s only child. as the applicant doubted the validity of the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act, which had previously been declared valid by the federal constitutional court, she had been obliged to give further reasons, which she had failed to do.
the applicants were or still are detained in chios prison, either in pre-trial detention or serving prison sentences. the first to fifth applicants and the tenth and thirteenth applicants were placed in cell no. 5, and the fourteenth applicant was placed in cell no. the fifth applicant was transferred to korydallos prison on 10 september 2013, the seventh applicant was released on 29 october 2013 and the ninth applicant was released on 4 september 2013. the applicants submitted that chios prison was overcrowded, resulting in a situation where each inmate was allocated approximately 2 sq. the prison consisted of six cells which each had fifteen beds and five mattresses on the floor, and three cells which each had ten beds. as regards the cells in which the applicants were held, their measurements were as follows: cell no. m. and accommodated six detainees, cell no. the sixth, eighth and ninth applicants slept on the floor, which was standard practice for other inmates as well. filthiness of the cells, in addition to overcrowding, exposed the inmates to contagious diseases and created various psychological problems, in respect of which no medical treatment was provided. detainees lacked access to adequate dental care. meals, which were insufficient and of poor quality, were served in the cells and consumed on the beds. cells were sufficiently ventilated and heated and had adequate natural light. in respect of prison overcrowding, the government argued that the prison had accommodated 142 inmates at the time the applicants had lodged their application with the court, only slightly exceeding its capacity of 120 detainees. in case of emergency, or when a serious incident occurred, detainees were transferred to chios general hospital or korydallos prison hospital in athens. those suffering from contagious diseases were held separately or transferred to hospital. the government provided information showing that some of the applicants had had consultations with doctors in respect of various conditions. there were fifty available places for detainees who wished to work. most of the applicants participated in some of the educational courses. as regards prisoners’ meals, the government submitted a menu from a week selected at random to demonstrate that meals were varied.
at the time when the application was submitted, the applicant was serving a sentence of imprisonment in oslo, norway. throughout the ensuing criminal proceedings he claimed to be innocent. the prosecution sought an eight-year prison sentence. both the applicant and the prosecution appealed. further adjournments were ordered, on the same ground, on 18 january 2008 and 4 april 2008. the court of appeal held a scheduling hearing (regiezitting) on 23 september 2008. at the hearing of 24 february 2009 it was decided that the hearing on the merits of the case would be held on 18, 19 and 27 may 2009. since further witnesses were to be heard by the investigating judge at the request of the defence, a further adjournment was ordered until 27, 29 and 30 october 2009; the applicant and his counsel were cautioned to be present without further notice. the applicant’s counsel stated that the applicant was in pre-trial detention in norway. he asked for the applicant to be brought to the netherlands a few days before the following hearing so as to consult with him. on 10 may 2010 the applicant’s counsel sent an e-mail to the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the court of appeal, with a copy to the president of the criminal division, restating his request for the applicant to be brought to the netherlands in advance of the hearing of the court of appeal and announced his intention to oppose resumption of the hearing if this were not done. the applicant’s counsel asked for the hearing to be adjourned until the applicant could be present in person. the [applicant] was to remain in pre-trial detention until at least 4 november 2009. the hearing on the merits could therefore not be held on 27, 29 and 30 2009 october as planned and was moved to 1 and 4 june 2010. -  the [applicant] has indicated, following his arrest, that he wishes to attend the appeal hearing. the hearing was continued on 4 june 2010. this finding implies that the court of appeal has considered the question whether it was possible for the suspect to be placed at its disposal for the purposes of the appeal but has answered it in the negative. the sentence reflecting the decision that all parts of the request had been refused] was sufficient. contrary to the argument made by the drafter of the point of appeal, the court of appeal was under no obligation to consider the seriousness of the charges against the applicant in deciding on the request for an adjournment but it was at liberty to consider the presence of counsel authorised to conduct the defence and the length of the criminal proceedings. on 27 january 2011 the oslo district court convicted the applicant of drugs offences and sentenced the applicant to eleven years’ imprisonment.
the applicant company is a limited liability company with its seat in bad gleichenberg, producing building materials of concrete and using crushed stones (schotter) for this purpose. the owner of the sicheldorfer mineral water spring appealed against this decision, claiming that the dredging had a negative impact on the spring. on 8 september 2004 the ministry for agriculture, forestry, environment and water (bundesministerium für land- und forstwirtschaft, umwelt und wasserwirtschaft) (“the ministry”) ordered the applicant company to submit a plan of the projected dredging area and of all the springs and wells concerned. on 21 september 2004 the applicant company submitted some plans but stated that it had no knowledge about the location of the spring and h.p. refused to provide the necessary information. the applicant company was requested to comment hereon. on 19 april 2005 the ministry quashed the decision of the steiermark regional governor and remitted it back to the first instance authority on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to provide sufficient information in order to assess a possible negative impact on the spring. on 4 october 2005 the applicant company submitted a private expert opinion to the regional governor. on 21 november 2005 an oral hearing was held. on 13 february 2006 the steiermark regional governor again issued the requested licence for dredging and imposed certain conditions. on 27 september 2006 the administrative court ordered the ministry to decide within three months. on 26 february 2007 the administrative court prolonged the deadline for the ministry until 30 april 2007. on 13 march 2007 the applicant company submitted another private expert opinion to the ministry. on 17 april 2007 the ministry rejected the requested dredging licence on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to submit all the requested documents. on 26 april 2007 the administrative court closed the proceedings on the applicant company’s complaint about the administration’s failure to decide (see paragraph 19 above) and ordered the reimbursement of the costs related to this complaint. the bad radkersburg municipality and the bad radkersburg spring company submitted their written observations. in addition, it requested to appoint another expert. nonetheless, it submitted a supplementary expert opinion. on 10 august 2010 the ministry communicated a further expert opinion for the applicant company’s information. this decision, served on the applicant company on 27 october 2010, became final.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in piteşti. on 4 september 2014 a gynaecologist prescribed the medicine utrogestan to the applicant, to be taken twice a day for three months. stopping the treatment did not have any potential effects. that she might not be able to testify that day because of her health. on the same date a general practitioner issued a medical note and referred the applicant urgently to hospital. according to the applicant’s own statement before the court, the examination at the panait sârbu clinical hospital confirmed that she was pregnant and was experiencing some complications as a result of stress and her medication’s side effects. however, the scan could not confirm whether the foetus had stopped developing or not. that she was feeling ill and presented him with the medical documents. she became scared, gave in and fully complied with the investigating authorities’ demands. the applicant signed the report without objection. according to the medical report prepared that day, she was thirteen weeks pregnant. during that time she was forced to stand and had no access to food or water. she started feeling very unwell because of her treatment and its side effects. informed the applicant of her impending detention in the presence of one of her chosen legal representatives. on the same date the applicant signed a statement for the detention centre medical service. according to the statement, she informed them that she had been monitored for endometrial hyperplasia, that she agreed with the information recorded by the medical staff and that the information in respect of her health was complete and accurate. the food she received was unsavoury, and she was warned by her cellmates not to eat it. she was forced to sleep in a bed that had a mattress but no bed linen or duvet. a shower was fitted above the toilet which was also used for flushing it. at around 7.07 p.m. on 7 november 2014 the bucharest county court dismissed the dna’s request to detain the applicant pending trial for thirty days and ordered her release, on condition that she did not leave the country.
he is currently serving a sentence in a prison in panama. following an undercover operation set up by the police with the help of two undercover agents, the applicant and a dutch national, v.d.p., were arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking. the applicant’s counsel asked the court to hear evidence from the undercover agents. his request was refused on the ground that the anonymity of the undercover agents was protected. the applicant’s counsel claimed that his client had committed the drug offence only after being incited to do so by the undercover police agents. on 9 april 2003 the arad county court convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the court based his conviction on the report drafted by the undercover agents after the applicant had been caught red-handed, as well as a search report and the statements given by the applicant and his co-accused. by a decision delivered on 25 june 2003 the timişoara court of appeal increased his prison sentence to ten years’ imprisonment. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. in his grounds for appeal he did not complain about the unlawfulness of his conviction but only about the length of his sentence. the applicant was detained in jilava prison between 25 july 2003 and 6 january 2004. the applicant alleged that he had been kept in poor hygienic conditions in overcrowded cells. the water provided had been of very poor quality, being of a yellow colour, smelling and containing worms. sometimes, there had been no water – either for drinking or for the toilet. the food had also been of very poor quality. the government contended that the records held by the prison authorities concerning the cells’ size and their occupancy rate were no longer available as the archives for that period had been destroyed, pursuant to the domestic law. it had been possible to let in fresh air by opening the window to each cell. the prisoners had been allowed to take one hot shower per week in the communal bathrooms located in each section of the prison (between nineteen and twenty-three showers had been available). the applicant had been allowed to walk outside his cell for thirty minutes each day.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in botârlău. on 23 february 2007 x, a plain-clothes police officer from the buzău county police organised crime unit, approached the applicant in a nightclub. according to a report drafted on 1 march 2007, the meeting had been planned in order to verify information received by the police that the applicant might have been dealing drugs. a request to intercept his telephone conversations and make ambient voice recordings was authorised by a judge of the buzău county court. on the same date the prosecutor from the organised crime department authorised the use of x as undercover police agent in order to determine the facts of the case, identify the offenders and obtain evidence. in the early evening of 19 july 2007 the applicant called x and set up a meeting for later that evening. x was accompanied by y, a colleague in plain clothes. as the deal got underway in the car park of the petrol station, the case prosecutor and ten police officers suddenly intervened and arrested the applicant, c.a.o. and x because the latter had asked him whether he could get drugs for him. moreover, x had set the price for the drugs. stated that the drugs found on him had been for his own personal use and that he had had no intention of selling them. on 14 february 2008 the court heard evidence from x, g.c. and one of the witnesses proposed by the applicant who appeared in court. the buzău county court gave judgment on 22 february 2008. it convicted the applicant of drug trafficking and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. the conviction was based on the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 and the offence report of 19 july 2007 (see paragraphs 6 and 10 above), as well as on transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with x, ambient recordings of discussions between x and c.a.o. the applicant appealed against the judgment. he alleged that x had exceeded his authority and that y should have also been called to testify in court. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (recurs), reiterating his previous arguments. basing its findings on the reports of 1 march and 14 april 2007 (see paragraph 6 above), the court considered that there had been serious reason to suspect that the applicant would commit a criminal offence at the time of authorisation of the covert operation.
the applicant company is a joint-stock company incorporated under moldovan law. ms roșca was born in 1984 and lives in chișinău. on 23 february 2000 the economic district court ordered the applicant company to pay another company, e., 1,908,145 moldovan lei (mdl) (equivalent to 152,190 euros (eur)). on 2 may 2006 the economic court of appeal, by a final judgment, dismissed e.’s application as being ill-founded, noting that a duplicate of the writ had been issued in 2003. on 17 december 2008 the economic court of appeal upheld an application by e. for a revision of the judgment, quashed the decision of 2 may 2006 and allowed the statutory time-limit to run anew. the court did not reply to the applicant company’s contention that the application was time‑barred. after communication, e. initiated enforcement proceedings and the applicant company paid mdl 294,405.37 (equivalent to eur 18,400). on 28 february 2007 the ciocana district court acknowledged the applicant’s entitlement, as a young family, to a plot of land for construction purposes. the court ordered the tohatin local administration to grant the applicant ownership of such a plot of land. as there was no appeal, the judgment became final on 20 march 2007. the applicant sought enforcement of the judgment of 28 february 2007, but to no avail. on 11 february 2009 the tohatin local administration lodged an application for a revision of the judgment, arguing that the applicant had not qualified as a young family because her husband had died in 2006 and she had therefore lost her entitlement to any land. on 22 april 2009 the ciocana district court dismissed the application for revision, finding that the applicant had requested the plot of land in 2005. her husband’s death had not qualified as a new circumstance because the local administration had been aware of that matter at the time of the proceedings. it also quashed the ciocana district court’s judgment of 28 february 2007 and delivered a new judgment on the merits that dismissed her claims as unsubstantiated. she referred to the period of twenty-six months between 20 march 2007 and 24 june 2009, during which the judgment of 28 february 2007 had not been enforced. it said that it had used the reference size of 0.09 ha because the tohatin local administration had granted plots of that size when executing similar judgments in respect of young families. on 25 october 2012 the chișinău court of appeal, by a final judgment, found the length of the proceedings to have been excessive, which it attributed to the acts of the authorities. it awarded the applicant mdl 30,000 (equivalent to eur 1,895) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and mdl 5,000 (equivalent to eur 316) for costs and expenses. the court dismissed the remainder of the claim, noting that the applicant had failed to substantiate alleged costs for renting alternative accommodation and finding that no compensation for the land should be awarded because the judgment acknowledging her entitlement to that land had been quashed.
according to the last information received by the court on 6 october 2016, the applicant is detained in lisbon. on 2 june 2014 the public prosecutor issued a european arrest warrant (“eaw”) in respect of the applicant in order to secure his presence before a judicial authority to be questioned (primeiro interrogatório judicial). on 28 august 2014 the applicant was arrested in the united kingdom. under the eaw issued by the portuguese authorities, he was surrendered to the portuguese authorities on 27 february 2015. on 27 february 2015, the applicant was given the status of defendant in the criminal proceedings against him (constituição de arguido) and questioned by the investigating judge (primeiro interrogatório judicial). on the same day, the investigating judge remanded the applicant in custody. on 19 march 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal with the lisbon court of appeal, challenging the lawfulness of the decision remanding him in custody, pursuant to article 219 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure. on 27 april 2015 the public prosecutor submitted observations on the applicant’s appeal. on 29 april 2015 the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be notified of the public prosecutor’s observations and that the file be sent to the lisbon court of appeal. on 4 may 2015 the file was sent to the lisbon court of appeal. on 11 may 2015 it was received and distributed. on 13 may 2015 the public prosecutor issued an opinion on the appeal, pursuant to article 416 of the code of criminal procedure. on an unknown date, a judge rapporteur appointed to the case made a preliminary examination of the applicant’s appeal and prepared a draft decision which was presented to two other judges. he further argued that the time-limit of thirty days established under article 219 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure had not been complied with. therefore, his pre-trial detention had been unlawful. on 2 july 2015 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s habeas corpus application. examining the effects of the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders, it considered that the thirty-day time-limit on pre-trial detention orders simply constituted a guiding principle illustrating the urgency of such matters. it further noted that the lack of a speedy review of an order remanding a person in custody did not constitute a ground for a habeas corpus application under article 222 of the code and pointed out that article 219 § 1 did not, in any case, stipulate the maximum length of any pre-trial detention. in this regard, the non-compliance with the thirty-day time-limit did not mean that the applicant’s pre-trial detention had been unlawful. on 2 july 2015 the lisbon court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the investigating judge’s decision of 27 february 2015 to hold him in pre-trial detention.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in orenburg. the applicant’s husband died in 2010 while serving his prison sentence. after his arrest mr grabarchuk was taken to a remand prison in orenburg, where doctors carried out a general health check and noted that he had hiv and hepatitis c. a month later hiv antibody testing confirmed the diagnosis. he had regular complete blood count tests, a basic metabolic panel, simple urine tests and a chest x-ray. on 30 april 2009 he complained of fever and a cough. in the hospital mr grabarchuk received tuberculosis treatment. the doctor recommended an immunological assessment. on 27 november 2009 mr grabarchuk was discharged from the hospital on account of a “clinical recovery” from tuberculosis. on 12 february 2010, on the basis of a routine complete blood count, doctors at the prison medical unit diagnosed mr grabarchuk with acute pyelonephritis, or inflammation of the kidney. three days later an infectious diseases doctor repeated the recommendation for an immunological assessment. the board recommended treatment against the relapse. a week later, after new chest x-rays, the doctors confirmed that mr grabarchuk had tuberculosis and not pyelonephritis. the doctor prescribed a complete blood count and ordered him to continue the tuberculosis treatment. mr grabarchuk lost weight and the ability to walk. an autopsy showed that he had died from hiv and tuberculosis which had led to pulmonary and cardiac failure. the government did not submit the investigation file, stating that it had been destroyed in july 2014. documents submitted by the applicant show that on 1 july and 27 october 2011 the investigating authorities obtained the autopsy report and questioned two doctors who had attended to mr grabarchuk in the prison hospital. the investigator refused to open a criminal case. a month later the orenburg regional court upheld that decision on appeal. according to the applicant, no further investigation followed.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is currently serving a prison sentence in vaslui prison. he was detained in several detention facilities. however, in the present application he only complained about the conditions of his detention in iaşi prison and about the fact that he had not been assigned a personal care assistant in rahova and iaşi prisons between 2 april 2013 and 30 january 2014. moreover, he submitted that he had shared his cell with smokers despite the fact that he was a non‑smoker. the food had also been of very poor quality. m, containing twenty‑six beds (that is, 1.2 sq. m, containing three beds (that is, 5.8 sq. m per bed), occupied by one to three detainees;- and cell e 8.10, measuring 17.48 sq. m per bed) and occupied by four to eight detainees. the detainees were provided with cleaning materials and personal hygiene products and they were responsible for cleaning the cells. the medical commission granted the applicant the right to a personal care assistant. moreover, he contended that he had not been assigned a personal care assistant and had been permanently subjected to humiliating and degrading remarks from his cellmates, the same people to whom he had to appeal for assistance. he had only received assistance from inmates in the facility in exchange for cigarettes and money. the applicant submitted copies of several requests he had lodged with the prison authorities on 21 may, 21 november and 23 december 2013 and on 20 february 2014 respectively, by which he had asked to be assigned a personal assistant. the government contended that the medical certificate on his disability had been issued only on 29 october 2013 (see paragraph 13 above) because the applicant had failed to submit the documents requested by the special commission for disabled persons. the government did not provide any information about the co-detainee in question. after the applicant had returned to iaşi prison he had lodged a request to be assigned a personal care assistant. the applicant lodged several complaints on the basis of law no. it further noted that on 9 may 2013 the prison authorities had appointed a commission of specialists, which had examined the applicant. had been useless because the latter had refused to provide him with any help.
since february 2015 he has been kept in a detention centre for foreign nationals in the town of makhachkala, dagestan republic, russia. as submitted by the government, he was therefore expected to leave russia in early 2012. the applicant did not leave and started to live together with ms b., a russian national. in november 2013 they had a child together. in the meantime, on 15 and 19 february 2013 the applicant was found guilty of an offence under article 18.10 of the code of administrative offences (cao), which provided that a foreigner could be punished for unlawful employment activities in russia. lawyer d. lodged a statement of appeal on behalf of the applicant against the judgment of 26 february 2015. on 4 march 2015 the supreme court of the dagestan republic upheld the judgment. the penalty of administrative removal was not enforced. he referred to the ongoing intensive military actions in syria, in particular in his home town of aleppo. it appears that the applicant engaged lawyer k. to assist him in those proceedings and had a meeting with him in the detention centre. on the same day, the lawyer was refused access to the applicant in the detention centre, apparently because he should have obtained authorisation for the visit from the regional migration authority. on 4 june 2015 the lawyer made a further unsuccessful attempt to gain access to the applicant. on 6 august 2015 the local migration authority dismissed the applicant’s application for temporary asylum. the applicant sought review of this refusal before the federal migration service (“the fms”). thus, his declared aim did not correspond to the actual aim for arriving in russia. the applicant was unlawfully engaged in employment activities ...in february 2013 he was twice prosecuted for administrative offences. the applicant was required to remedy the above defects by 18 november 2015. the applicant received a copy of the judgment in february 2016 and lodged an appeal. his appeal was dismissed by the moscow city court on 8 june 2016. the appeal court held as follows:“the first-instance court considered that the applicant did not fall within the scope of the notion of “refugee” under the refugees act ... in view of the applicant’s failure to submit specific facts disclosing that in the event of his removal to syria he would be exposed to a real threat to his security ... or that he was persecuted in this country, the appeal court agrees with the first-instance court ... the appeal court also notes that the applicant arrived in russia in 2011 but only sought temporary asylum in 2015.”
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in ufa, the republic of bashkortostan. in february 1996 the applicant was severely injured in a traffic accident. on 24 april 1996 he lodged a civil action against the owner of the car, the state unitary subsidiary passenger transport company of ufa no. 3 (государственное унитарное дочернее уфимское пассажирское автотранспортное предприятие 3 – hereinafter “the transport company”), seeking compensation for damage. on 29 november 2005 the sovetskiy district court of ufa (hereinafter “the district court”) partly granted the applicant’s claims. on 15 february 2006 the transport company was declared insolvent and it was put into liquidation. therefore the transport company’s debt under this head amounted to eur 69,029. the judgment became final on 22 january 2009. on 3 march 2009 the commercial court once again granted the applicant’s application for payment as a lump sum of the amounts of the monthly allowance. on 15 july 2009 the commercial court accepted the applicant’s claim for transfer of the transport company’s debt to the russian federation, as provided for in section  135 § 3 of the insolvency act (see paragraph 21 below). on 3 december 2009 the commercial court of the uralskiy circuit upheld that judgment and it became final. furthermore, on 6 august 2010 the applicant started receiving a monthly allowance of eur 948. the transport company provided public transport services on a commercial basis. it was a subsidiary of another company, bashavtotrans state unitary company (гуп «башавтотранс» – hereinafter “the parent company”). the legal provisions on subsidiary companies are summarised in paragraph 22 below. the transport company had the right of “economic control” over the assets allocated to it by the parent company. on 14 october 2004 the government of the republic of bashkortostan issued decree no. 918-p, by which all the transport company’s assets were transferred to the parent company; the debts remained with the transport company. on 15 february 2006 the transport company was declared insolvent, and it was put into liquidation. the liquidation proceedings ended on 31 december 2013.
he has served sentences in several prisons. on 21 april 2015 he was released from târgu-jiu prison. the applicant alleged that while detained in cell no. 5 of târgu‑jiu prison for eight days, between 1 october and 9 october 2013, he had not had an individual bed and had therefore been forced to sleep on the cold floor on two blankets. as a consequence, the renal disease from which he suffered had been re-activated and he had experienced intense pain. on 3 october 2013 he had been examined by a prison doctor and had been prescribed medical treatment. however, he had been unable to submit any evidence in this connection as the prison authorities had rejected his requests for a copy of his medical records. he submitted instead an old medical certificate stating that on 23 september 2012 he had been hospitalised in the nephrology department of slatina hospital suffering from renal colic. the applicant lodged a complaint with the post‑sentencing judge asking for an individual bed. his complaint was examined on 15 october 2013. the applicant informed the judge that he had eventually been given a bed, but only after nine days. the post-sentencing judge took note that the applicant had obtained an individual bed; he did not draft an interlocutory judgment, but merely noted that the complaint had been withdrawn. the applicant lodged a complaint with the gorj district court seeking compensation in connection with the lack of an individual bed for eight days in cell no. on 12 november 2013 the târgu-jiu district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as inadmissible without examining its merits on account of the fact that the applicant had not submitted an interlocutory judgment by the post-sentencing judge in connection with his complaint.
the first applicant was born in 1980 and lives in sharya, the kostroma region. the applicant was held in remand prison iz-44/1 in kostroma in the following cells:cell no. the parties disagreed on the design capacity of the cells and the actual number of inmates. the first applicant, relying on three hand-written statements from his co-detainees, submitted that cell 49 had contained three two-tier bunk beds with metal sheets welded to beds on the upper and lower levels to create additional sleeping places. cell 49 was used to accommodate between ten and twenty prisoners. cell 43 contained two two-tier bunk beds and accommodated four prisoners. the government submitted that the number of prisoners in the cells had not exceeded the occupancy limit. cell 29 had three sleeping places, cell 49 four places and cell 43 two places. they submitted selected pages from the prison registration log. all of these pages, except one dated 24 july 2009, indicate that cell 49 was designed for four persons and accommodated as many prisoners. the number “4” appears to be written over a different number that was erased. the entry of 24 july 2009 indicated that cell 49 was designed for ten persons and accommodated eight prisoners. similarly, the entries in respect of cell 29 show traces of erasures and alterations. its design capacity is listed as two or three places and the actual population is always three prisoners. the second applicant was born in 1958 and has been serving his term of imprisonment in ivdel, the sverdlovskiy region. between 14 july 2009 and 4 july 2010 the second applicant was held in remand prison iz-59/1 in the perm region. according to him, the facility was overcrowded. according to the government, the second applicant was held in cells 80, 90, 92, 98 and 103. the actual number of inmates detained in the cells did not exceed their designed capacity. on some pages the listed total number of inmates is ten less than the number produced by adding up the population of individual cells.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in baku. the opposition planned to hold demonstrations on 17 november 2012 and 26 january 2013 in baku. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly was not in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. according to the applicant, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse them. in both cases the applicant was arrested during the dispersal operation and was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. in the first case the report stated that by deliberately failing to comply with a lawful order from the police, the applicant had committed an administrative offence under article 310.1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”). according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents from his case files. in neither case was he given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. in both cases the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on the day of his arrest, 17 november 2012 and 26 january 2013 respectively. members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. according to the applicant, in neither case was he given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. at the court hearing in the second case a state-funded lawyer was appointed to assist the applicant. at the hearing in the first case the court did not question any witnesses. in the second case the court questioned two police officers. the police officers testified that they had arrested the applicant because he had staged an unauthorised demonstration. he also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in the second case he was not represented by a lawyer.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. at the material time some of them held positions in opposition political parties or groups. demonstrations were planned to be held on 31 july 2010, 2 april 2011 and 17 april 2011 in baku. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. according to the applicant in application no. 67351/11, he was arrested by people in plain clothes. the applicants were questioned at the respective police stations. on the day of the applicants’ arrests, “administrative offence reports” (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) were issued in respect of them. some of the applicants refused to sign the respective administrative offence reports. 57737/11, 67351/11, 67977/11, 69411/11 and 69421/11). 57737/11, he obtained a copy of the administrative offence report several months after the administrative proceedings against him had ended. none of the applicants was given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. state-funded lawyers were appointed to represent most of the applicants. the record of the hearing in the case of the applicant in application no. 69411/11 shows that in his oral submissions, the state-funded lawyer briefly asked the court to be merciful and adopt a lenient decision. in the case of the applicant in application no. 67977/11, a police officer who had issued the administrative offence report was also questioned as a witness. all those police officers testified that the applicants had staged unauthorised demonstrations. 57737/11 was not represented by a lawyer. 57737/11, on 28 february 2011, following his complaints about the authorities’ failure to serve him with the relevant documents, the sabail district court sent him a copy of the administrative offence report issued in respect of him, the first‑instance court’s decision of 31 july 2010 and the baku court of appeal’s decision of 20 august 2010.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in baku. at the material time he was a member of an opposition party, musavat. the applicant attempted to participate in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku. according to the applicant, the demonstration was intended to be peaceful and was conducted in a peaceful manner. the applicant had intended to attend the demonstration. however, shortly after that attempt he was arrested and taken to a police station. according to the applicant, he was arrested by people in plain clothes. on 6 may 2014 the applicant also participated in another assembly, which took place near the baku court of serious crimes in support of members of an opposition group, nida, who were being tried on that day. when the court announced its judgment, those who had gathered outside began to protest against the judgment, which they considered unfair. the protest was brief, spontaneous and peaceful. in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the cao. according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents in his case files. in both cases he was not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. in the second case he was brought before the nasimi district court on 7 may 2014, the day following his arrest. according to the applicant, in neither case was he given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. according to the records of the court hearings in both cases, in their oral submissions the state-funded lawyers briefly stated that the applicant was not guilty and asked the respective court to discontinue the case. by a decision of 20 october 2012 the first-instance court in the first case convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to ten days’ “administrative” detention. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in both cases, on 29 october 2012 and 16 may 2014 respectively, the baku court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in baku. on 17 april 2011 and 26 january 2013 the applicant participated in demonstrations organised by the opposition in baku. it appears that no prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 26 january 2013. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. as a result, the muscles in her neck, arms, back and other parts of her body hurt. at the police station she was kept handcuffed. in a photograph, submitted to the court by the applicant and allegedly taken at the time of her arrest, the applicant is shown with both arms twisted behind her back by two police officers and with her body bent as a result of that restraint. according to the applicant, she was never served with copies of the administrative offence reports or with other documents from her case files. in neither case was she given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while in police custody. in the first case the applicant was brought before the nasimi district court on 18 april 2011, the day following her arrest. according to the applicant, in neither case was she given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of her own choice. state-funded lawyers were appointed to assist the applicant. the police officers testified that the applicant had attempted to stage an unauthorised demonstration, and, in the second case, had also incited others to participate in such an assembly. in the second case the court found that the applicant had incited people to participate in an unlawful assembly and, by doing so, had violated the rules on organising and holding assemblies. by a decision of 26 january 2013 the court in the second case convicted the applicant under article 298.1 of the cao and sentenced her to a fine of 2,000 manats (azn). she also complained that her arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in the first case the applicant was assisted before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of her own choice. by a letter of 25 may 2011 the general prosecutor’s office informed the applicant’s lawyer that the complaint had been forwarded to the baku city prosecutor’s office for examination. the applicant did not lodge a complaint with a court against the decision of 16 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in baku. at the material time he was a member of an opposition party – the popular front party of azerbaijan. information about that assembly was disseminated through facebook or the press. the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration of 17 november 2012, stating in general terms that that assembly would not be in accordance with the law on freedom of assembly. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. the participants of the demonstration of 17 november 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and protesting against impediments to freedom of assembly. in the second case the applicant was charged with an administrative offence under article 298.2 (participation in a public assembly that had not been organised in accordance with the law) of the cao. according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents in his case files. in the first case the applicant was brought before the sabail district court on 17 november 2012, the day of his arrest. according to the applicant, the hearing before the court in both cases was very brief. members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. made any oral or written submissions before the first-instance court. stated in general terms that the applicant was not guilty. at the hearing in the first case the court did not question any witnesses. the police officers testified that they had arrested the applicant because he had staged an unauthorised demonstration. testified that he and the applicant had attempted to participate in the demonstration but had been arrested even before they had entered the area where the assembly had been held. by a decision of 17 november 2012 the first-instance court in the first case convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ “administrative” detention. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair. in the first case the applicant was assisted before the baku court of appeal by a lawyer of his own choice. in the first case the baku court of appeal found that the applicant had failed to stop participating in an unauthorised demonstration.
between 1993 and 1999 the applicant, p., lu., on the same day the police arrived at the crime scene and found the bullet which the applicant had fired. on 15 june 2001 the police detained the applicant and brought him to a police station. after the applicant had run away from the crime scene, la. had taken the gun away from the applicant. copies of the minutes were not made available to the court. minutes of this confrontation were made available to the court. despite that request, on 9 october 2001 the applicant was questioned without a lawyer and made an oral statement saying that he had committed the attack with the help of lu. but those two persons had threatened him and for that reason during the confrontations with them he had said that he had committed the attack alone. in july 2002 the applicant complained to the court of appeal that on 15 and 16 june 2001 the police had tortured him with the aim of extracting statements incriminating la. on the same date that request was granted. on 14 august 2003 the applicant was questioned in the presence of lawyer k. and stated that he had actually committed the attack alone and had not had any accomplices. when questioned in court, the applicant stated that in august 2000 he had been living in la. on 7 september 2001, during his confrontation with la., and another individual brought the applicant to a forest, threatened him and suggested he repay the debt by robbing mr and mrs i.by the same judgment the court convicted p., lu. the applicant’s statement that in august 2000 he had been living in la. on 31 october 2005 the applicant lodged his first letter with the court. on 29 august 2005 the applicant was moved to prison no. on the date of the applicant’s release he still suffered from tb. he did not provide any further details concerning his detention conditions and did not submit any evidence in this respect.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kyiv. in 1995-2002 the applicant was convicted of and served a sentence for aggravated theft and burglary. on 27 december 2005 and 6 january 2006 the police found the applicant in possession of illegal drugs. on 20 january 2006 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of drug manufacturing and possession. on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant and a certain mr i. for armed robbery committed in a group. on 23 january 2006 the kyiv podilsky district court (“the district court”) ordered the applicant’s detention on remand until 20 march 2006 on the grounds that he had previous convictions and there was a risk that he would abscond, continue his criminal activities or obstruct the investigation. on 16 march 2006 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 20 april 2006, stating that there was no reason to change it and there was a need to carry out investigative actions. on 27 june 2006 the district court held a preliminary hearing in the case and upheld the preventive measure imposed on the applicant without giving any reasons or setting a time-limit for it. on 17 march and 14 july 2008, and 19 january and 23 april 2009 the district court refused the applicant’s requests for release. on 17 july 2009 the district court convicted the applicant of drug possession and armed robbery committed in a group and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 27 july 2010 the kyiv city court of appeal quashed that judgment and remitted the case to the district court for fresh consideration. on the same day the applicant was released against his undertaking not to abscond. on 30 september 2013 the district court sent the case against the applicant to the prosecutor for further investigation. on 25 april 2014 the charges concerning the armed robbery were separated into a second set of criminal proceedings. on 29 april 2014 the bill of indictment for robbery was approved and on 3 june 2014 the district court committed the applicant for trial on that charge. as at the date of the last communication from the parties to the court, 5 march 2015, proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the district court.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in baku. demonstrations were planned to be held on 31 july 2010 and 10 march 2013 in baku. it appears that no prior notice was given to the bcea by the organisers of the demonstration of 10 march 2013. information about that demonstration was disseminated via facebook or the press. the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations in the centre of baku. according to the applicant, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the participants of the demonstration of 31 july 2010 were demanding free and fair elections and democratic reforms in the country. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse those who had gathered. in both cases the applicant was arrested during the dispersal operation and was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative offence reports or with other material from his case files. in both cases he was not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while he was in police custody. in the second case he was held in police custody overnight and brought before the sabail district court on 11 march 2013, the day after his arrest. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. at the court hearing in the first case the applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to the material submitted to the court by the parties, he refused legal assistance. made any oral or written submissions to the first-instance court. at the hearings in both cases the court did not question any witnesses. by a decision of 31 july 2010 the first-instance court convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention. by a decision of 11 march 2013 the same court convicted the applicant under article 298.2 of the cao and sentenced him to seven days’ administrative detention. the applicant also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the first-instance court had not been fair.
the applicant, a retired military officer, was born in 1947 and lives in the city of simferopol, ukraine. in december 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the simferopol garrison military court against a local military enlistment office seeking an order to recalculate his pension. on 20 may 2005 the court found against the applicant. on 11 august 2005, following his appeal, the navy court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court. on 30 august 2005 the applicant appealed on points of law. on 17 october 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine allowed the applicant a time-limit until 1 november 2005 to rectify the procedural shortcomings of his appeal on points of law. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“the [present] appeal on points of law does not comply with the requirements laid down in article 213 of the code of administrative justice, as the applicant failed to pay the court fee and to provide a number of copies of the appeal on points of law corresponding to the number of persons involved in the proceedings ...[the court decides to] set for gavrilov v.v. a deadline of 1 november 2005 for rectifying the shortcomings of the appeal on points of law submitted by him. [the court brings to] the attention of gavrilov v.v. that if he fails to rectify the above shortcomings, in accordance with article 108 of the code of administrative justice, the appeal on points of law will be returned to the applicant and considered not submitted.” the applicant dispatched his rectified appeal on points of law by registered post on 24 october 2005. it appears that the applicant resubmitted several copies of the appeal dated 30 august 2005 accompanied, in accordance with the instructions of the higher administrative court of ukraine, with proof of payment of the court fee. according to the acknowledgment of receipt form, the letter was received by the court registry on 27 october 2005. on 7 november 2005 the higher administrative court of ukraine adopted a decision which stated, inter alia, as follows:“gavrilov v.v. failed to rectify the shortcomings indicated in the ruling [of 17 october 2005] within the time-limit granted by the court, the appeal on points of law should, therefore, be considered as not submitted and be returned to the applicant.”
the applicant, mr volodymyr oleksandrovych kryvenkyy, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1934 and lives in velyki gadomtsi. at the same time, according to him, he was allocated a specific plot measuring 3.61 ha, which, he had farmed and paid land tax on since that time. a neighbouring collective farming company, which was designated as its successor. subsequently the two farms separated again. was obliged, in particular, to compensate the local council for the damage suffered by the agricultural producers in connection with the expropriation of the land. had to obtain and register a relevant state land-use certificate. according to the applicant, until 2004 u.c.c. took no action to register its land-use rights and the plot designated for expropriation by parliament’s decision of 18 march 1999 remained in the hands of the members of the v.g. meanwhile, on 17 january 2003 the berdychiv district administration approved a draft certificate determining the boundaries of the plots of land to be designated to individual farmers from the lands allocated to v.g. on the basis of this decision, on 4 june 2003 the applicant was issued with the land-ownership certificate for the aforementioned 0.6021-ha plot. the issuance had therefore been devoid of legal basis. on 17 august 2006 the berdychiv court allowed the aforementioned claim. and it became impossible for the applicant to access it or use it for farming. on 12 december 2006 the zhytomyr regional court of appeal upheld the above judgment. he noted, in particular, that he had obtained the disputed land lawfully and in good faith. he could therefore not be deprived of it unless fair compensation was paid. on 4 april 2007 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal in cassation. instituted administrative proceedings against the berdychiv district administration. ’s land, while the land, whose boundaries had been in dispute, had belonged to v.g., after several rounds of proceedings, on 14 september 2011 the berdychiv court found that the decision of 22 july 2005 had been unlawful in so far as it had related to the plots of land of the individuals who had instituted the proceedings.
in december 1996 the first applicant concluded a three-year military service contract with the ministry of defence. in march 1999 its housing commission allocated him a studio in a residence hall for students and employees of the national defence academy of ukraine (“the defence academy”), located on z. street in kyiv, and the applicants moved into this accommodation. in december 1999 the first applicant concluded another three-year military service contract. on an unspecified date in 2001 the applicants’ daughter was born. in december 2001 the first applicant rescinded his contract with the ministry of defence and resigned from military service, citing family circumstances. on 4 april 2002 he was employed as a salesman by g., a private company. on an unspecified date and for unknown reasons the first applicant registered himself as a temporary resident at an address on p. street in kyiv. however, according to the applicants’ submissions, the family continued to live in and pay charges for the z. street studio, which they had renovated and modernised at their own expense. relying on article 132 paragraph 1 of the housing code (see paragraph 35 below), the plaintiffs argued that because the first applicant had resigned from military service, he and his family were obliged to vacate the accommodation, which had been provided to them on a temporary basis in connection with the first applicant’s military service. they also noted that the first applicant had a dependent wife and young child, and that the family had no other accommodation in kyiv. on 11 november 2003, after hearing oral submissions of all interested parties and having examined the written evidence presented, the court ruled for the plaintiffs. article 132 paragraph 1 of the housing code was therefore applicable and the applicants’ family was legally obliged to vacate the z. street accommodation. the court held, in particular, that his service contract had contained no clauses obliging the ministry to provide him with housing during his service. the fact that he had been provided with temporary accommodation at the ministry’s discretion did not mean that the state had a duty to accommodate him or his family after termination of the contract. according to the applicants, on 28 april 2004 they were evicted from the z. street accommodation. on 7 may 2004 the official gazette of ukraine (офіційний вісник україни) published the new code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the 2004 code”), which was adopted on 18 march 2004 and entered into force on 1 september 2005. on 3 october 2005 the deputy president of the court of appeal informed him that his case had already been decided and that the judgment of 11 november 2003 had been upheld. on 16 and 24 november 2005 the first applicant wrote to the court of appeal with a request to be provided with a copy of the decision taken on 29 january 2004. on 29 november 2005 the applicants received a copy of that decision. they also argued that the lower courts had erred in their assessment of the facts and application of the law in their case.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in kharkiv. this treatment continued for one hour and the applicant was then placed in a cell. the next morning, the applicant experienced severe abdominal pain and requested medical assistance (see paragraph 8 below). the government denied all allegations of ill-treatment. on the same date the applicant complained to the duty officer that he was experiencing acute abdominal pain. his state of health had been classified as being of medium gravity. he was discharged from hospital in a satisfactory condition, after being given the relevant recommendations as to further medical treatment. on the same date the applicant, having waived his right to legal assistance, confessed to the crime in question and was arrested. he was taken for a forensic medical examination, which was conducted in the presence of a police officer. he was diagnosed with a twisted sigmoid colon and acute intestinal obstruction requiring surgery. from 16 may 2005 to 19 june 2009 the applicant was detained in the kharkiv sizo. the applicant’s medical file suggests that in 2003, while serving a prison sentence for another conviction, the applicant was recognised as falling into the second category of disability because of his intestinal problems and the need for appropriate surgery was stressed by physicians. on 3 june 2005 the sizo generalist doctor advised that the previously prescribed treatment should be continued. on 17 august 2006 a generalist confirmed that the applicant was suffering from peritoneal adhesions and prescribed him the relevant treatment. the relevant treatment was prescribed to him. on 26 february 2007 the applicant was diagnosed with bronchitis. no signs of active tuberculosis were found. on 20 february 2006 the applicant complained to a prosecutor about his ill-treatment by the police on 3 may 2005. on 1 june 2007 the prosecutor’s office again refused to institute criminal proceedings in response to the applicant’s complaint as there was no medical or other evidence to support the applicant’s allegations. he stated, in particular, that this evidence of his ill-treatment had been completely disregarded by the trial court.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in kaunas. in november 1995 the applicant wrote to the authorities to ask why the buildings and the land had been sold to other persons in 1992. on 22 october 1996, upon their own initiative, the authorities suggested to the applicant that she submit a request to be paid monetary compensation for the buildings, if she did not have any objections to such a form of restitution. on 27 april 1999 the applicant lodged a claim with the kaunas district court, asking it to establish as a legal fact that before the 1940 nationalisation her father had owned the buildings and a plot of land. on 18 august 1999 the kaunas district court stated that there was a dispute about the applicable law and left the applicant’s claim unexamined. the court therefore dismissed the applicant’s complaint. the applicant appealed raising the same complaints as she did before the kaunas district court (see paragraph 14 above), and on 13 june 2005 the kaunas regional court held that the assessment of value of the buildings had been based on several methods of calculation and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law. it therefore dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 23 march 2006, during the hearing before the kaunas regional administrative court, the applicant asked for the examination of the case to be postponed that she might have time to eliminate deficiencies in her claim. in april 2007 the expert stated that on 14 july 2003 the market value of the buildings had been ltl 56,850 (approximately eur 16,465) and that the market value of the buildings at the time that the examination of the case had started had been ltl 164,900 (approximately eur 47,758). subsequently the court proceedings were resumed, and on 21 september 2007 the kaunas regional administrative court held that the new assessment of value of the buildings was more accurate and decided to annul the assessment of value of 14 july 2003 by the centre of registers and that part of the decision of 9 october 2003 to restore the applicant’s property rights in which the value of the buildings was set at ltl 36,000 (approximately eur 10,426) (see paragraphs 10 and 11 above). the applicant did not appeal and the decision became final on 5 october 2007. on 18 may 2009 the kaunas regional administrative court examined and then rejected a claim by the applicant seeking for the kaunas municipality to be obliged to pay her ltl 82,450 (approximately eur 23,879) for the buildings and to award her ltl 96,370 (approximately eur 27,911) in damages. the applicant appealed, but on 26 july 2010 the supreme administrative court dismissed her appeal. the applicant requested that the proceedings be reopened. on 17 december 2010 the supreme administrative court refused her request. in october 2007 the relevant authorities were informed that an additional assessment of the value of the buildings had to be made and then the kaunas municipality administration asked the centre of registers to urgently assess their value. this valuation was officially approved by the authorities on 5 june 2009, when they amended the annulled part of the decision of 9 october 2003 to restore the applicant’s and her sister’s property rights. the transfer of the securities was finalised on 1 february 2011. however, the applicant failed to do so in an acceptable manner and on 25 october 2010 the kaunas regional administrative court declined to examine her claim.
the applicants are:1)  ms marzhan kushtova, who was born in 1925,2)  mr magomet (in the documents submitted also spelt as magomed and magomed-bashir) kushtov, who was born in 1950,3)   ms minovsi (also spelt as minuosi) tsitskiyeva, who was born in 1954,4)  ms madina kushtova, who was born in 1960,5)  mr musa kushtov, who was born in 1961,6)  ms fatima kushtova, who was born in 1966 and7)  ms khulimat kushtova, who was born in 1968. the applicants are russian nationals who live in the republic of ingushetia, russia. they were wearing camouflage uniforms and masks ... some of them were not wearing masks. the people who got out of the blue niva were wearing dark uniforms. all the men assaulted the [young man] and started beating him. 066000005 in connection with the abduction. on 10 april 2006 the ingushetia fss informed the investigators that they had not conducted any special operations in troitskaya on 31 december 2005. she was informed in reply that the whereabouts of her son had not been established but that search measures were being taken. on an unspecified date in june or july 2006 the first applicant again complained to the prosecutor general, the head of the federal security service and the minister of the interior, stating that her family was being threatened by law-enforcement agents, who had harassed her and her relatives and that her son mr ibragim kushtov had been abducted in order to make him confess to crimes he had not committed. on 28 december 2006 the first applicant requested that the investigators question the many people who had witnessed the abduction. of the traffic police who stated that at about 5.30 p.m. on 25 january 2006 he and two of his colleagues, b.g. on 25 january 2006 she and her colleague ms s.s. she further stated that her other son, mr isa kushtov, was wanted by the authorities and that their family had not kept in contact with him. on 6 february 2006 the investigators questioned ms m.a. had told the applicant that the fss was not involved in the abduction and that mr ibragim kushtov might have been detained on the premises of the police’s department for the fight against organised crime in khankala in chechnya. on 19 april 2006 the investigators questioned the applicants’ relative mr i.k. all of them either denied having spoken with him, stated that no conversation had taken place or that the telephone number used to call him had not been registered to them. during his second visit the man had told the applicant that mr ibragim kushtov had been transferred from the remand prison, in khankala, to “kadyrov’s prison” in tsentaroy, chechnya. on 20 november 2006 the investigators questioned the fss officer s.g., on 28 august 2006 the investigation of the criminal case was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators of the crime.
the applicant is a non-governmental organisation that publishes orlovskaya iskra, a newspaper in the orel region. apart from the publications mentioned above, on 7 and 14 november 2007 the applicant organisation’s newspaper also published, in the same weekly issues, two articles written by its staff correspondent, ms o. both articles were critical of mr stroyev, the then governor of the orel region and the former chairman of the federation council (the upper chamber of the russian parliament). governor stroyev was a candidate at those elections: he was no. the second deputy was a history professor. the article suggested that his decision to leave the communist party was also forced. the article cited the example of mr stroyev’s nephew, a businessman suspected of abuse of public funds and fraud. his case was still pending; the article suggested that regional law-enforcement agencies being discouraged from pursuing the investigation actively. that case concerned a defamation claim lodged by a governor of another russian region against a journalist of a local newspaper. the article alleged that the reform of the forest authorities was initiated by governor stroyev in breach of federal legislation. sued the regional authorities, and at the relevant time the proceedings were pending. however, in the opinion of the journalist, there was little hope for impartiality on the part of the regional courts. according to the journalist, the proceedings in the case of mr g. were adjourned, probably because governor stroyev wanted to avoid a scandal before the date of elections. on 17 november 2007 the working group on informational disputes of the regional electoral committee examined both articles. the official of the electoral committee compiled an administrative offence record against the applicant organisation, referring to the legislative provisions defining “campaigning” (see paragraph 40 below):“[the applicant organisation] has committed an administrative offence: publications on 7 and 14 november 2007 containing elements of election campaigning as defined in sections 10 and 55 § 1(6) of the state duma deputies elections act” ...liability for this offence is prescribed under: article 5.5 § 1 of the cao.” the case was then submitted to a justice of the peace. no such mention had been made in the articles. the applicant organisation appealed to the zheleznodorozhny district court of orel. the scope of that application remains unclear. on an unspecified date the applicant organisation received a copy of this decision. on an unspecified date the applicant organisation introduced an individual application before the constitutional court of russia, arguing that the impugned provisions of the electoral rights act and the state duma deputies election act ran counter to freedom of the press.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lived in yoshkar-ola before his conviction. on the same day his car was found on the outskirts of yoshkar-ola. ’s whereabouts and the circumstances of his disappearance. a lawyer provided by the state at the applicant’s request. they called investigator a., who arrived with other members of the investigative team, carried out an examination of the place and seized the body. the applicant provided a different version of his arrest and the events which followed. (d)  injuries recorded at the temporary detention facility 14. at 2.35 p.m. on 8 september 2007 the applicant was taken from the ivs to investigator g. to take part in two confrontations, which were carried out between 3.30 p.m. and 5.25 p.m. the applicant, who was represented by lawyer v.k., in a “statement of surrender and confession” (явка с повинной) drawn up by investigator g. at 7 p.m. in the absence of a lawyer, the applicant confessed to participating in a conspiracy to murder a.k. after being taken back to the ivs, the applicant signed a statement of surrender and confession, as requested by the investigator. ’s murder had been written by the applicant, but that it was impossible to determine whether he had also signed that record. in a report dated 19 december 2007 the forensic medical expert concluded that the injuries could have been caused by hard blunt objects. the town court’s decision of 31 july 2008 was initially set aside after an appeal by the prosecutor before the mariy el supreme court on 22 september 2008 for the reasons that on 15 august 2008 the criminal case against the applicant had been transferred for trial to the mariy el supreme court, that those proceedings were pending, and that it was open for the applicant to raise in the course of his trial complaints concerning his ill‑treatment. 369-o of 18 november 2004, 156‑o of 25 march 2004, 500-o of 20 december 2005, 576-o-p of 19 may 2009, 1107-o-o of 13 october 2009 and 79-o of 16 march 2006. on 7 october 2011 the yoshkar-ola town court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the investigator’s decision of 9 march 2011. the mariy el supreme court noted that the town court had examined the material gathered during the course of the inquiry and established that the applicant’s arguments had been examined by the investigator. according to the trial records of 23 october 2008, in the course of the trial the applicant lodged a new request for the exclusion of some evidence as inadmissible, which he again withdrew. who had also been in the car, stated that he had seen the applicant beating a.k. ’s body, and that this constituted a mitigating circumstance. on 5 february 2009 the russian supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the mariy el supreme court.
the applicant, mr angelo de tommaso, is an italian national who was born in 1963 and lives in casamassima. 1423/1956, and impose a compulsory residence order on him during that time. the public prosecutor submitted that the applicant’s previous convictions for drug trafficking, absconding and unlawful possession of weapons showed that he associated with criminals and was a dangerous individual. in submissions of 6 march 2008 the applicant challenged the prosecutor’s recommendation. he further submitted that no criminal charges had been brought against him since a conviction dating back to 2002. he argued that there was no need to place him under special supervision. in a decision of 11 april 2008, served on 4 july 2008, the bari district court placed the applicant under special supervision for two years. the court observed, in particular:“the subject was issued with a ‘verbal warning for public safety’ on 18 september 2006, but this did nothing to improve his conduct; he continued to associate regularly with key figures in the local underworld (malavita locale) and carried on committing offences (see statement of charges pending: breach of supervision order on 25 april 2007; breach of supervision order on 29 april 2007).” on 14 july 2008 the applicant appealed to the bari court of appeal. in a decision of 28 january 2009, served on the applicant on 4 february 2009, the court of appeal allowed his appeal and quashed the preventive measure ex tunc. it then observed that in several final judgments delivered between september 1995 and august 1999 the applicant had been convicted of tobacco smuggling. he had subsequently changed his sphere of activity and until 18 july 2002 had been involved in drug trafficking and handling illegal weapons, offences for which he had been sentenced to four years’ imprisonment in a judgment of 15 march 2003, which had become final on 10 march 2004; he had served his sentence from 18 july 2002 to 4 december 2005. the court of appeal accordingly noted that the applicant’s most recent illegal activities relating to drugs dated back to more than five years before the preventive measure had been imposed. all that the court could hold against him was an offence of absconding, committed on 14 december 2004 (while he had been subject to a compulsory residence order). it observed in particular:“while it is true that the application of special supervision is compatible with the status of detention, which relates solely to the time of the execution of the sentence, the assessment of dangerousness is inevitably even more significant in the case of an individual who has fully served his sentence and has committed no further offences after his release, as is the case for mr de tommaso. the note of 26 january 2008 in which the carabinieri mentioned that mr de tommaso associated with convicted offenders (to whom he had been caught speaking) does not appear sufficient to establish his dangerousness, bearing in mind that mr de tommaso has not been the subject of any further judicial proceedings since the decision to impose the preventive measure. on 7 april 2015 the government submitted a letter containing a friendly-settlement proposal in respect of the part of the application concerning the complaint of a lack of a public hearing in the bari district court and court of appeal (article 6 § 1 of the convention), as well as a unilateral declaration under rule 62a of the rules of court in relation to that complaint. in their declaration the government, referring to the court’s well‑established case-law (bocellari and rizza v. italy, no. 399/02, 13 november 2007; perre and others v. italy, no. 1905/05, 8 july 2008; and bongiorno and others v. italy, no.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in poltava. the window was covered by a metal shield and metal bars, preventing daylight and fresh air from reaching the cell. in the summer it was extremely hot, and this forced everyone to wear very little clothing, and during the winter it was very cold. the light in the cell was very poor, with only an electric bulb of 25-40w positioned above the front door. the toilet was not separated from the living area, had no flush, and emitted a foul smell that lingered in the air. the food was of poor quality, often made from products which had spoiled, and was unvaried. only one pair of scissors was available for cutting their nails, and these were also not disinfected. they argued that the applicant had been held in seventeen cells of the same type during his detention in the sizo, and it was unclear which of them he was referring to in his complaint to the court. from 2 october 2007 to 22 september 2009 the applicant was serving his sentence in kremenchuk correctional colony no. upon his arrival, the applicant was put in the admission ward (карантин) for fourteen days. m and accommodated ten to twelve prisoners. the cell was dirty and infested with parasitic insects. no disinfection products were available, and all cellmates shared water containers, scissors and a needle. four artificial ventilation channels were also available. according to the applicant, from january 2006 onwards he started experiencing severe pain in his back and legs, and he sought assistance from the medical unit at the sizo. on 22 february 2006 the applicant was examined by a neurologist from poltava hospital no. he was expected to remain in this category for one year. on 21 august 2008 the applicant was examined by an infectious disease specialist. on 27 february 2009 he was further diagnosed with hiv, chronic compensated hepatitis, a chronic duodenal ulcer in remission, chronic cholecystitis and pancreatitis in remission, and the after-effects of closed head injuries. on 3 april 2009 the applicant was examined by a neurologist, who confirmed the earlier diagnosis.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in boscana. at the time of the events the applicant was a police officer. in december 2006 he and another police officer, v.g., on the street and took them to a police station. at the police station by kicking him in the chest. therefore, on 10 august 2007 the charges against the applicant were dropped. however, on 24 september 2007 that decision was annulled and the applicant was again charged with ill-treating one of the victims during the arrest. during the court proceedings, the two victims submitted that they had been approached by the two police officers on the street and had been asked to accompany them to the police station. the police officers had handcuffed him and had had to punch him in the stomach to make him bend over and enter the vehicle. at the police station, the personal items were returned to the victims. made two different and contradictory statements during the court proceedings. he at first submitted that both the applicant and v.g. had kicked him at the police station after he had asked where his wallet and documents were, but later submitted that only v.g. had hit him, using a machine gun for that purpose. moreover, he submitted that he had not lodged a formal criminal complaint about the alleged ill-treatment and was only involved as a witness in the proceedings. in a judgment of 21 may 2009 the buiucani district court found that the police officers had used force during the arrest but that the force had not been disproportionate in the circumstances. the applicant was convicted as charged and given a three-year suspended prison sentence. the rest of his statement was not mentioned. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. in his submissions to the supreme court of justice the applicant’s lawyer argued, inter alia, that the applicant’s conviction had been contrary to article 6 § 1 of the convention because the court of appeal had neither examined the case file nor heard him, the victims or witnesses in person.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in traun. the applicant was employed as a civil servant of the traun municipality (stadtgemeinde traun). on 5 august 2002 the applicant declared to resign from his civil service employment as of 31 august 2002. however, on 29 august 2002 he revoked his declaration. on 30 december 2003 the applicant appealed. on 15 january 2004 he requested that suspensive effect be granted in respect of his appeal. on 18 may 2004 he requested that the city council declare him entitled to (retroactive) payment of his salary as from 1 september 2002. on 18 june 2004 the traun municipal council (gemeinderat) dismissed the appeal, holding that the applicant was not entitled to his salary after 31 august 2002 and rejected his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 as having been filed out of time. on 24 june 2005 the upper austria regional government (hereinafter, “the regional government”) quashed the municipal council’s decision in the part rejecting the applicant’s request for suspensive effect of 15 june 2004 (see paragraph 9 above) and referred it back to the lower instance for a new decision. the remainder of the applicant’s objection was dismissed. on 5 august 2005 the applicant complained to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) against the regional government’s decision of 24 june 2005. on 25 september 2006 the constitutional court declined to examine the complaint and on 15 november 2006, at the applicant’s request, transferred the complaint to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof). on 31 january 2007 the administrative court rejected the complaint because the municipal council had not been competent to decide on this issue. on 4 january 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the municipal council’s failure to decide on his request for suspensive effect. on 27 june 2008 the municipal council dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the city council’s decision of 11 december 2003 (see paragraph 8 above) and his request for suspensive effect of 15 january 2004 (see paragraph 9 above). consequently, on 5 september 2008 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 4 january 2008 about the municipal council’s failure to decide (see paragraph 17 above) and awarded costs to the applicant. on 9 february 2009 the regional government dismissed the objection. therefore, on 13 march 2009 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the regional government’s failure to decide and awarded costs to the applicant. on 25 march 2009 the applicant complained to the constitutional court against the regional government’s decision of 9 february 2009 (see paragraph 20 above). the decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 9 february 2012.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in london. from 1997 to 1998, the applicant was the ceo of the central wechsel- und creditbank ag (“cwag”), a sub-company of the hungarian national bank (“unb”). it further issued an order for the applicant’s house to be searched and pursuant to section 412 code of criminal procedure (hereinafter, the “ccp”) the criminal proceedings were interrupted until the submission of the final report. on 28 november 2001 the applicant’s house was searched and the applicant was informed about the investigations against him for the first time. on 22 april 2003 the vienna local tax authority informed the vienna regional criminal court that they had completed the investigations and had sent their findings to another vienna local tax authority which would assess the facts and prepare the final report. on 5 march 2004 the applicant lodged a request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings with the vienna regional criminal court. on 14 april 2004 the vienna regional criminal court rejected the applicant’s request as it could not determine the case without having first obtained a final report from the tax authority. on 8 june 2004 the tax authority issued a decision, in which it assessed the applicant’s income tax for the years 1997 and 1998 anew. on 7 april 2009 the applicant lodged a further request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings against him. on 27 july 2009 the vienna regional criminal court dismissed the applicant’s second request for the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings stating that the persecution of the applicant did not seem inadmissible. on 27 november 2009 that decision was confirmed by the vienna court of appeal. the court noted however that the tax authority had still not submitted its final report even though it had concluded the investigations in 2003 and had already issued new tax assessment orders in 2004. it therefore ordered the public prosecutor to obtain the final report without further delay and thereupon to close the investigative phase as soon as possible. on 23 june 2010 the tax authority submitted the final report, covering three pages. on 15 december 2010 the applicant’s appeal lodged with the administrative court was dismissed. on 21 december 2010 the applicant filed an official liability action against the republic of austria, claiming compensation for, inter alia the unreasonable length of the criminal proceedings and the caused loss of earnings. on 30 june 2011 the vienna regional civil court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen wien), upon the applicant’s request, suspended the official liability proceedings pending the outcome of the criminal proceedings. on 15 april 2011 the vienna court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s objection to the bill of indictment. on 8 march 2012 the supreme court quashed the judgment and referred the case back to the vienna regional criminal court. on 31 august 2012 the vienna regional criminal court held a hearing and acquitted the applicant of all charges.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in remanzaccio. he was found in the street in a state of intoxication, with scratches on the left side of his face. hoping that she would be able to seek help once outside, she resigned herself to following him. began harassing the applicant by telephoning her and sending her insulting messages. was placed under judicial investigation on charges of ill-treating family members, inflicting grievous bodily harm and making threats. the police sent the criminal complaint to the prosecution on 9 october 2012. on 18 march 2013 the prosecution, finding that no investigative measure had been carried out, again asked the police to investigate the applicant’s allegations rapidly. regarding the episode of june 2012 she stated that a.t. had unsuccessfully attempted to hit her and her daughter. had, however, pretended to turn the knife on himself. had not forced her to have sex with other people and that she had returned to live at the family home. on 30 may 2013 the udine public prosecutor’s office, after noting, firstly, that the applicant, who had been interviewed in april, had mitigated her allegations against her husband saying that he had not threatened her with a knife and that she had been misunderstood by an employee from the shelter where she had taken refuge and, secondly, that no other violent episode had occurred, asked the investigating judge to close the complaint lodged against a.t. with regard to the offence of causing bodily harm, the proceedings were continued before the magistrate. was committed for trial on 28 october 2013. the applicant had stated that her husband was under the influence of alcohol and that she had decided to call for help because she thought he needed a doctor. the applicant’s son attempted to stop him and was stabbed three times. criminal proceedings instituted against a.t. with regard to the ill-treatment, the preliminary hearings judge, after hearing witnesses and the applicant’s daughter, considered that the applicant and her children had been living in a climate of violence. at his trial, had confessed to experiencing feelings of hatred towards his wife. however, neither of the parties annexed the judgment to their observations.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in london. the applicant left somalia with his family for the netherlands in 1992 when he was fifteen years old. after claiming asylum, it would appear that the family were given a period of leave to remain in the netherlands. although the asylum application was unsuccessful the applicant was granted exceptional leave to remain until 2004. the applicant received ten criminal convictions over the period from 16 november 2001 to 4 august 2005. in december 2007 he was convicted of a public order offence and of failing to surrender. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision to deport him on 1 february 2008. on 2 june 2009 removal directions were set for 17 june 2009. however, they were cancelled on 16 june 2009 when the applicant made an application to this court (application no. the form from july 2009 includes the following statement in reference to the rule 39 measure: “whilst this means that enforced removal is not possible, [the applicant] could reduce the length of time he spends in detention by withdrawing voluntarily”. a similar point features in some, if not all, of the later forms. applications for bail were refused on 9 november 2009, 21 april 2010 and 14 july 2010 as the immigration judges were not satisfied that the applicant would answer to any conditions set. however, following an appeal by the applicant, the secretary of state withdrew the refusal decision on 12 july 2011. permission was granted on 17 june 2011 but a further application for bail was refused. however, the fact remained that while he was free he was committing offences of such seriousness as to require him to be imprisoned, including robbery and public order offences. the court also considered whether alternatives to detention could be used such as electronic tagging, monitoring by telephone and regular reporting. at the time the administrative court noted that the interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court, was awaiting a lead judgment on returns to mogadishu (sufi and elmi, cited above) and it was clear that there would be no resolution of the applicant’s claim - and the interim measure would therefore not be lifted - before that judgment was handed down. consequently, the administrative court did not accept that there was not, at the time the interim measure was indicated, a realistic prospect of removing the applicant within a reasonable time. it therefore did not consider his continued detention up to 13 july 2011 to be unlawful. with regard to the second ground of appeal, the court accepted that if the applicant were able to show that the decisions to maintain his detention were vitiated by public law he would succeed in establishing that the detention was unlawful and would have a claim of false imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1954 and is currently residing in kostyantynivka. a. concluded a contract with e., a russian company, undertaking to export a certain amount of ferromanganese to russia. on a number of occasions between march 2000 and april 2001 a. exported ferromanganese to russia, delivered it to e. and received payment for it. in 2002 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant. the applicant stated that the contracts had not been fictitious and the certificates had not been forged. a. had legally bought ferromanganese from the private companies, exported it to russia and received tax refunds. they made certain statements the domestic courts subsequently found to be incriminating. some of the managers repeated those statements in the course of confrontations with the applicant conducted in the course of the pre-trial investigation. detailed information about the statements of the witnesses and confrontations can be found in the table set out in paragraph 17 below. on an unspecified date the investigation was completed and the case was referred to the kostyantynivka court for trial. the defence did not object and the statements were read out. the court then proceeded to examine the documents in the file. on 29 september 2004 the applicant’s lawyer requested the court to summon s., k. and r. again (see elements 1-3 in the table below), because the examination of documents had revealed inconsistencies in their pre-trial statements and because the reasons for their failure to appear had not been established. the final sentence was thus seven years and six months of imprisonment with a ban on holding managerial positions for two years. had been wound up and its documentation destroyed confrontation conducted. r., director: contract was fictitiousthe modus operandi used with company m. was the same as that for other companies. operations with company f. n., deputy director: contract was fictitiousthe company which was supposed to supply the goods to company f. was deemed by the tax authorities to be fictitiousconfrontation conducted. did not insist on examination p., director: confirmed n.’s statementno confrontation conducted. on 6 september 2005 the supreme court heard the case in the presence of the prosecutor but in the absence of the applicant and his lawyer, who were not informed of the date and time of the hearing. on 15 may 2009 the applicant was released from detention following a presidential pardon.
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently serving his prison sentence. he asked for the police and an ambulance to be called and, once the police arrived, stated that an accident had happened. on the same date the applicant’s arrest report was drawn up which stated that the applicant had been arrested for the murder of o. at 10 p.m. at the police station. he pleaded not guilty and repeated his statements made earlier. having heard that, the applicant insisted on such a meeting. on 3 june 2005 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was ordered by a court. they made no observations in this connection. on 17 november 2005 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant for illegal production, possession and storage of firearms. on 19 may 2006 the court of appeal, acting as a first-instance court, found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. the applicant had also been found guilty of modifying the shotgun in question prior to the incident. according to the applicant, the facility was often overcrowded with the number of detainees exceeding the number of beds. the quality and quantity of food was unsatisfactory. there was only one pair of scissors and one hair clippers for the whole sizo and they were not disinfected prior to or after use. on 7 september, 7 and 21 november 2006 the applicant requested that the investigator allow visits from his family but to no avail; the investigator attempted to extort money from him for granting permission to see the relatives. during his stay at the sizo the applicant was held in twelve different cells (including cells nos. scissors and other hairdressing implements had been disinfected after each use in accordance with the relevant regulations. that fact had been confirmed by the results of an investigation conducted by the ministry of health and the prosecutor’s office following the applicant’s complaints. all his requests were rejected for security reasons. this request was rejected; so was another request for a special diet in view of his possible hepatitis infection. on 11 august 2007 he was diagnosed with hepatitis b. thereafter he lodged a number of complaints with different state bodies alleging that he had contracted hepatitis in the sizo owing to the failure to disinfect hairdressing implements, and demanding investigation of this matter.
the case originated in application against ukraine lodged with the court under article 34 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”) on the date indicated in the appended table. the applicants complained of the excessive length of civil proceedings and of the lack of any effective remedy in domestic law. the court received friendly-settlement declarations under which the first applicant agreed to waive any further claims against ukraine in respect of the facts giving rise to the part of the application concerning her complaints, subject to an undertaking by the government to pay her the amount detailed in the appended table. the payment will constitute the final resolution of this part of the application.
the applicant was born in 1960 and until his conviction lived in the town of slantsy in the leningrad region. in 1991 the applicant sustained a penetrating head injury, which involved the crushing of brain tissue. this trauma caused paralysis of the entire right side of his body, light speech impairment and post-traumatic epilepsy. to reduce the frequency of epileptic seizures the applicant was obliged to take benzonal. in 2005 the applicant committed a homicide. on 16 april 2007 the slantsy town court found him guilty of murder and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment in a highly secure correctional colony. on 15 august 2007 the leningrad region court upheld the sentence on appeal. on 16 april 2007 the applicant was taken to a police ward in the town of slantsy. on admission to that facility the resident prison doctor conducted a general medical check-up of the applicant and noted his disability. on 26 september 2007, when the sentence became final, he was transferred to correctional colony no. in the hospital he was subjected to various medical tests which showed that his health was stable. on 10 october 2008 the deputy head of the correctional colony ordered the applicant’s transfer to a special unit for disabled prisoners. it accommodated only disabled inmates, who were detained in a prison wing located close to the medical unit. the applicant submitted that even after his transfer to the special unit he had not been provided with nursing assistance. in the meantime the detention authorities applied for his early release on medical grounds. the decision was upheld on appeal by the st petersburg city court on 17 november 2009. between 1 february and 18 march 2010, at his own request, the applicant was admitted to the prison hospital for treatment, and on 16 march 2010 he was re-examined by a medical board, which confirmed his right to early release on medical grounds. he was accommodated in a special unit for disabled prisoners. the applicant continued to receive benzonal from his wife and refused to take any substitutes. on 10 june 2010 the tosnenskiy town court dismissed the application for early release on medical grounds, referring to the gravity of the applicant’s offence, the fact that his health status had already been taken into account by the court which sentenced him, and, lastly, to the fact that the applicant’s medical condition had not worsened in detention.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in nagykozár. the applicant had been working as a tax inspector. in 1996 he applied for early retirement on account of disability. as of 1 april 1996, he was declared to have lost 67% of his capacity to work and was granted a disability pension of 114,880 hungarian forints (huf) per month (approximately 370 euros (eur) at the rate of january 2017). that disability assessment was maintained in 1999, 2003 and 2006. the relevant assessment methodology changed as of 1 january 2008. the applicant’s case was reviewed under the new rules in 2009. without any significant change in his state of health having occurred, he was then found to have lost 50% of his working capacity. under the relevant statute, the benefit could only be granted for a limited period, namely until 31 october 2011 in the applicant’s case. the monthly amount payable evolved in the period preceding the deadline. on expiry, it was huf 173,980 (approximately eur 570) per month, minus huf 17,398 in payroll deductions, resulting in a net sum of huf 156,585 (approximately eur 510). cxci of 2011 on the benefits granted to persons with reduced work capacity was enacted. it came into effect on 1 january 2012 and introduced a new system of allowances. on 28 march 2012 the applicant applied for a disability allowance under the new law. on 8 may 2012 he was medically examined before an expert panel of the national rehabilitation and social welfare authority. the applicant’s state of health was rated at 46% and he was classified as being suitable for rehabilitation within a time-frame of thirty-six months. the monthly disability allowance corresponding to his situation was eventually set at huf 55,800 (approximately eur 180). the applicant sought a judicial review before the pécs administrative and labour court, but in vain. on 26 may 2014 the kúria rejected his petition for review on the grounds that he had not relied on any particular breach of the law, as required by the code of civil procedure. following a further legislative amendment of 1 april 2014, the applicant became entitled to a disability allowance of huf 159,100 (approximately eur 520) per month retroactively as of 1 january 2014.
the first applicant was born in 1962 and lives in bizeljsko. the second applicant was born in 1946 and lives in artiče. they were tried by a professional judge, a.k., however, stated that he believed that he had only cut down marked trees on the first applicant’s land. the court also appointed an expert, who estimated that the value of the allegedly stolen wood amounted to 2,028 euros (eur). in the course of the proceedings against him, judge a.k. in respect of the first charge, the second applicant maintained that he had mistakenly thought that he had been cutting down trees on his own land, whose borders had been shown to him by the former owners, f.h. who also appeared as witnesses in the proceedings. stated that he had helped the second applicant transport the wood and that he had been told by him that the land belonged to him, which i.t. that he could cut down trees in exchange for wine. later retired on an unspecified date and the case files in both applicants’ cases got lost. in 2010, the local court reconstituted the files. based on the documents contained in the restored case file, judge d.k.m. see paragraph 9 above), which were served on the first applicant’s counsel on 17 august 2010. she also found his testimony to be in contradiction with some of the other witness statements. other evidence, such as the expert’s opinion and photographs, confirmed that f.b. they further alleged that the judgments should have been set aside and remitted to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. as regards the first applicant, the higher court reassessed the evidence, including the witness statements, and came to the same conclusion as the first-instance court. on 6 january and 1 september 2011 respectively, the supreme court dismissed the applicants’ applications for the protection of legality, holding that only the operative part of the judgment, namely the verdict, could have interfered with the rights of the parties, while the purpose of written grounds was to enable a decision to be reviewed by higher instances. however, in certain situations, such as when a judge was absent for a long time or died, the law had to be interpreted as permitting another judge to give the written grounds.
the applicants in each case were affected by decisions of the russian federal penal authority («федеральная служба исполнения наказаний», “the fsin”) on prisoners’ allocation to post-conviction penal facilities. the applicants’ individual circumstances are detailed below. the application was lodged on 13 june 2009 by ms elvira vasilyevna polyakova, who was born in 1976 and lives in vladivostok, primorskiy region. she was represented before the court by ms l. ovchinnikova, a lawyer practising in vladivostok. on 22 may 2008 mr r. was convicted of drug-related crimes and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment in a strict-regime penal facility. in september 2008 the head of the primorskiy regional department of the fsin decided to transfer mr r. to the krasnoyarsk region, some 5,000 kilometres from vladivostok. on 30 december 2008 the fsin of russia dismissed the applicant’s request for mr r. to be transferred from the penal facility in the krasnoyarsk region to one in the primorskiy region, stating that under article 81 of the ces prisoners should, as a rule, serve the entirety of their sentence in the same penal facility, and that there were no reasons for mr r.’s transfer. on 13 january 2009 the primorskiy regional court summarily dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the couple are the parents of linda and iman kibalo. guilty of kidnapping, illegal possession of arms, and attempted murder of a law-enforcement officer. ms natalya kibalo asked the fsin to transfer mr kh. on 21 august 2009 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow refused to examine ms natalya kibalo’s complaint on the merits, stating that she had no standing to bring a complaint on behalf of her husband. on 7 december 2010 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 17 june 2010 on appeal. ’s transfer to another penal facility, and that “the appeal statement contain[ed] no references to circumstances that would refute the [first-instance] court’s findings and demonstrate that there were grounds for mr kh. she visited her husband once in 2011 and once in 2012 but could not afford to travel at all in 2013 or 2014. the application was lodged on 13 july 2013 by mr ivan dhzimsherovich yeliashvili, who was born in 1979 and lives in noginsk, the moscow region. he is currently serving his sentence in ik-8 in labytnangi, the yamalo-nenetskiy region. on 11 april 2012 the fsin submitted their objections to the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow, which read, in particular, as follows:“the claimant’s arguments that he is unable to receive visits from his relatives cannot be taken into account, because the possibility of receiving visits from next of kin and relatives is governed by the norms of the russian code on the execution of sentences and is unrelated to the location of any penal facility.” the applicant, who had been granted legal aid. the conviction was upheld on appeal and became final.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in zhangala, kazakhstan. in june 2000 the applicant moved from kazakhstan to russia, where he married ms g.k., a russian citizen, with whom he had two daughters who were born in 2000 and 2002. the applicant and his family lived in the settlement of slantseviy rudnik in the saratov region. the applicant regularly visited his relatives in kazakhstan. 32469 granting the applicant yet another three-year residence permit, valid until 20 august 2016. according to the notice handed to the applicant at the border crossing, he was subject to exclusion from russia. on 13 may 2014 the applicant, through his representative, lodged an appeal against the exclusion order with the frunzenskiy district court of saratov (hereinafter “the district court”). the applicant stated, in particular, that since 2000 he had been married to a russian national and had two children who were also russian nationals. on 25 july 2014 the regional court examined the applicant’s complaint. on the same date, 25 july 2014, the regional court upheld the applicant’s exclusion until 2030. the court neither specified the nature of that data nor provided any details regarding its origins or the circumstances of its collection. as regards any overruling of that decision, such competence lies with the executive body that took it”. therefore, the public interest prevailed over the private interest of the applicant”. the applicant’s representative lodged an appeal against the above decision with the administrative cases chamber of the supreme court of the russian federation (hereinafter “the supreme court”) stating, among other things, that in spite of the fact that he had submitted a signed undertaking of confidentiality to the regional court, he had not been given the chance to familiarise himself with the contents of the fss report of 14 january 2014 and the other documents which had served as the basis for the exclusion and that the actual reasons for that measure remained unknown to the applicant. he stressed that the applicant had never committed criminal or administrative violations and that the exclusion and the re-entry ban had disrupted the applicant’s family life. on 24 december 2014 the supreme court upheld the decision of 25 july 2014 stating that the regional court had duly examined the necessary legal basis for the exclusion and that its decision had been lawful and reasonable. as for the applicant’s complaint concerning the interference order with his right to respect for family life caused by the sixteen-year exclusion, the supreme court left this unexamined. in addition, the government submitted copies of the decisions of the regional court taken between 2011 and 2015 in respect of the following decisions taken by the domestic authorities: eight decisions granting appeals against expulsion orders imposed on account of criminal convictions and violations of immigration regulations, and three decisions granting appeals against exclusion orders and re-entry bans imposed on account of violations of immigration regulations. none of the documents furnished by the government concerned an appeal against an exclusion order and/or a re-entry ban imposed on the grounds of national security.
the first applicant was born in tanzania. she moved to denmark in 2001 after marrying the second applicant. on 29 november 2008, the applicants requested that both paternity cases be reopened in order to establish formally e.’s fatherhood of l. and s. the first applicant submitted, in english, that e. was the children’s biological father and that he “had warned me not to tell the truth about the fatherhood of the children”. they had married in december 2001 and she had moved to denmark in 2002. in 2008 she had told e. that he would have to take care of the children soon and that she would report to the authorities that he was the biological father. he had replied that he did not want any responsibility for the children and ended their relationship. she wanted the boys to know their true identity while she was alive. e. had stated that he did not want to take financial responsibility for the boys. the second applicant still saw the boys regularly and would continue to do so after the case had been settled. their relationship had continued until 2008. he and another man had had sexual relations with her at the same time, but he could not recall when. in 2006 they had had sexual relations regularly, including in a swinger club once or twice. in respect of s. new information and circumstances in the case gave reason to believe that a mistake might have been made when registering paternity and that there might be a different outcome. he had become a sort of uncle for the children. he could not rule out that he was the father of the children but he would not voluntarily submit to a dna test, since he would never be able take on the role of being their father. when l. had turned two years old, he had received a birthday card with the text: “dear l., happy birthday, love daddy”. the children were still in contact with the second applicant. by decision of 26 november 2010 the high court refused to reopen the paternity cases. the majority (two judges) noted that it was not until the proceedings on paternity that the applicants had informed the authorities that they had not had sexual contact in the fertile period as regards s. moreover, despite giving the children the impression that e. was their biological father, the second applicant had continued to treat the children as his own, at least until the end of 2008. in addition he pointed out that the second applicant had not been aware until autumn 2008 that the first applicant and e. had had a long relationship, and that he was probably not l.’s father.
details of the applicants are set out in the appendix. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 3 december 2004 the third and fourth applicants filed a request with the restitution and compensation commission (hereinafter “the commission”), seeking compensation for land expropriated from their legal predecessor in 1946. between 17 july and 12 august 2005 the first and second applicants made statements waiving their rights in respect of the property belonging to the same legal predecessor in favour of the third and fourth applicants. on 28 august 2005 the commission ruled in favour of the third and fourth applicants. on 14 october 2005 the ministry of finance quashed that decision upon an appeal filed on 19 september 2005 by the supreme state prosecutor (vrhovni državni tužilac) in his capacity as legal representative of the respondent state. on 17 april 2006 the commission issued a new decision, awarding compensation to all the applicants as they were all heirs of the legal predecessor. in so doing, it also examined the waiver statements of the first and second applicants made in 2005, but considered that, pursuant to section 40 of the restitution of expropriated property rights and compensation act, such waiver statements could only be validly made in non-contentious proceedings before a competent court (see paragraph 20 below). between 12 june 2006 and 27 march 2014 the competent second‑instance administrative body (firstly the ministry of finance and later the appeals commission) and the administrative court, before which the case was first brought on an unspecified date in 2006, issued sixteen decisions in total (eight decisions each). the second-instance body ruled upon a series of appeals and gave decisions within 55 days, 65 days, 30 days, 53 days, 14 days, 78 days, 94 days, and 132 days. the administrative court gave rulings within 1 year 8 months and 17 days, 7 months and 22 days, 7 months and 27 days, 3 months and 23 days, 5 months, 5 months and 19 days, 4 months and 16 days, and 4 months and 23 days. the administrative court never ruled on the merits of the initial compensation request, but instead quashed or upheld the quashing of the first-instance decision of the commission. the supreme court’s decision was served on the applicants on 8 july 2014. on 25 july 2014 the applicants each lodged a constitutional appeal against the decision of the supreme court, relying on, inter alia, articles 6 and 13 of the convention. the government submitted that, on the same day, in addition to those constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision, the applicants had also each lodged a second constitutional appeal against the decision of the administrative court of 27 march 2014. no copies of those second constitutional appeals were provided by either party. on 28 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeals against the supreme court’s decision as premature, given that the commission was still considering their compensation request. the decision stated that the applicants’ constitutional appeals had been filed against the judgments of the administrative court and the supreme court. in its ruling, the constitutional court constantly referred to the “impugned judgments”. there is no information in the case file as to when that decision was served on the applicants.
at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, the applicants lived in istanbul and their children attended different public elementary schools. on unspecified dates in december 2001 the applicants (save for mr yılmaz yavuz) each sent petitions to the bağcılar, esenler and kadıköy education directorates with a request for their children to be provided with education in kurdish in their respective elementary schools. the istanbul state security court granted the public prosecutor’s request that day. on 9 january 2002 the public prosecutor instructed the anti‑terrorism branch of the istanbul security directorate to conduct the searches with a view to finding evidence that could link the relevant persons to the pkk as aiders and abettors. the applicants were arrested and taken into police custody following the searches on 13 january 2002. the applicants’ signed statements suggest that interpretation services were provided to three of them (ayşe döner, fatma yılmaz and güli akyol) on request. on the same day he applied to the istanbul state security court to have the same twelve applicants released, arguing that they were being held in custody unlawfully. on 16 january 2002 the istanbul state security court rejected a request by the lawyer to have the decision rendered by the judge set aside. it appears that shortly after that decision, still on 14 january 2002, the public prosecutor authorised the applicants’ detention in police custody for four days between 13 and 17 january 2002. they denied any involvement with the pkk. according to the information provided by the government, seven of the applicants (ayşe döner, hasibe yılmaz, fatma yılmaz, tenzile akyol, güli akyol, meliha can and kudret dağ) were assisted by an interpreter during questioning by the public prosecutor. on the same day the public prosecutor filed an objection concerning the decision to release the applicants, claiming that it was evident from the statements made by them following their arrest that they had submitted the petitions in an organised manner with the aim of assisting the pkk’s “politicisation” process. on 18 january 2002 the istanbul state security court upheld the public prosecutor’s objection in respect of the applicants esma döner, hanım gülün, hasibe yılmaz, meliha can, şükrüye temüroğlu, halime günana and zübeyde yavuz, and issued a warrant for their arrest. the court did not provide any reasons for its decision. the next day they were remanded in custody. on 21 january 2002 the applicants esma döner and zübeyde yavuz filed objections concerning their detention on remand. on the same day the public prosecutor issued an indictment against thirty-eight suspects, including the remaining applicants, accusing them of aiding and abetting an armed organisation under article 169 of the criminal code and section 5 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. in the indictment the public prosecutor stated that following the arrest and conviction of their leader abdullah öcalan, the pkk had set out to pursue new policies. when viewed against this background, the petitions in question – which had been submitted to certain authorities on predetermined dates and times – could not be considered to be individual acts. they had actually been part of an organised movement which had aimed to implement the decisions adopted by the pkk and thereby undermine the authority of the state.
the applicant was born in 2001 and lives in st petersburg. 42 had been disciplined for breaching sanitary standards. they had been threatened that if they complained to their parents about the teachers they would be punished. had attempted to convince her and other staff members to falsely accuse the applicant’s father of assaulting ms k. and ms pt. ms k. had used physical force against those children who had resisted. on 11 june 2008, in reply to a complaint by the applicant’s mother, the st petersburg prosecutor’s office again criticised the kirovskiy district prosecutor’s office for delays in the conduct of the pre-investigation inquiry and for its ineffectiveness. on 1 december 2008 the investigator questioned the mother of another child who had attended the nursery school with the applicant. he also showed the investigator a closet in which he had been locked in the dark. however, when questioned on 24 october 2011 and 24 july 2012 ms pt. on 12 december 2011 and 16 july 2012 the investigator questioned the then director of nursery school no. she gave positive references for ms p. and ms k. she stated that she had never seen them mistreating the children or received any complaints from the parents in respect of her. on 9 october 2009 a panel of medical experts examined the applicant’s medical records and issued an expert opinion. the experts found that before november 2005 the applicant had not suffered from any psychiatric disorder. in her opinion, the applicant had suffered severe damage (rather than damage of medium severity) to his health. on 11 march 2009 the psychologist treating the applicant stated to the investigator that the applicant had been suffering from a neurological disorder since november 2005. on 17 july 2009 the applicant’s mother submitted to the investigator a copy of a medical certificate showing that the applicant did not have any anomalies in the brain. there were therefore no reasons to consider that the applicant could not remember the relevant events accurately and was psychologically incapable of testifying within the framework of the criminal proceedings. the decisions to suspend the investigation were taken by the investigator on the basis of medical certificates showing that ms k. was on maternity leave and could not therefore participate in investigative measures. they could not therefore be considered reliable either. on 16 october 2012 the st petersburg city court quashed that decision on appeal for procedural defects.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in chernigiv. on 25 january 2007 the desnyanskiy district court in chernigiv (“the district court”) issued a warrant to search the applicant’s flat for a mobile telephone, which had been reported stolen. the relevant part of the ruling read:“acting investigator has applied to the court with a request to authorize search of the dwelling of [the applicant] ... with a view to locating a mobile telephone “nokia‑7270” stolen from private entrepreneur [k.] ... [theft] having taken place on 2 december 2006 at night. during the hearing, the acting investigator and the prosecutor have supported their request ...having heard the acting investigator [and] the opinion of the prosecutor, and having examined the material of the criminal case, the court concludes that ... [it] has been provided with sufficient data indicating a possibility that the nokia 7270 mobile telephone may be at the [applicant’s] place of residence.” on 30 january 2007 the police searched the applicant’s flat in his presence and seized three mobile telephones, which, according to the applicant, belonged to him and his family members. as appears from a poorly legible copy of the list of the seized items prepared by the police, two of these telephones were apparently of samsung and one – of nokia make. according to the applicant, on an unspecified date the seized telephones were returned, and neither he nor any of his family members were ever indicted or involved in any other way in the criminal proceedings giving rise to the search warrant. on 3 march 2007 the applicant lodged an administrative complaint with the district court, alleging that his home had been searched arbitrarily and seeking moral damages for breaching inviolability of his home. on 5 march 2007 the district court refused to examine the above complaint, citing a lack of jurisdiction. it noted that all complaints regarding the unlawfulness of procedural actions by law-enforcement authorities taken in connection with a criminal investigation had to be lodged within the framework of relevant criminal proceedings based on articles 234 and 236 of the code of criminal procedure of ukraine (“the ccp”), then in force. the applicant appealed against that decision. he alleged that there was no meaningful opportunity for him to obtain redress on the basis of the ccp provisions, since a criminal court could only examine complaints concerning the actions of investigation authorities in the context of its examination of a criminal case. in the applicant’s situation, such a remedy would not be effective, since he had no procedural status in the criminal proceedings at issue, and had never been informed of the progress of those proceedings. moreover, it was not certain whether or when the case would reach trial stage. however, as the applicant considered himself to have been a victim of an arbitrary search, regardless of the outcome of the relevant criminal investigation, he also considered that he had standing to bring an administrative complaint under articles 2 and 4 of the code of administrative justice of ukraine (“the caj”). on 15 may 2007 the kyiv administrative court of appeal rejected the appeal by the applicant, having essentially endorsed the findings of the first-instance court. he reiterated the arguments raised in his ordinary appeal and additionally submitted that his claim against the police for non-pecuniary damages could not be examined and resolved within the framework of criminal proceedings against a third party. on 13 may 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in staryy oskol, belgorod region. on 6 may 2005 the applicant concluded a preliminary sale agreement with mr n. regarding a plot of land with a small house under construction situated in the belgorod region. on 10 october 2008 the son of the deceased, mr n. junior, sold the plot of land to another person, who registered her property right. later, the applicant sought to register her property right over the plot of land and found that it already had another registered owner. she then sued mr n. junior before courts. on 9 april 2009 the starooskolskiy town court of the belgorod region declared the sale contract of 10 october 2008 null and void. mr n. junior was declared the owner of the plot of land and of the house. on 4 august 2009 the belgorod regional court partly modified this judgment. it decreased the amount of damages to rub 246,569, notably quashing the part relating to unjust enrichment. on unspecified date the applicant lodged a supervisory review application. on 19 january 2010 the belgorod regional court restored the judgment of 17 june 2009. on 11 may 2010 mr n.’s son lodged a supervisory review application. it however quashed the judgment of 19 january 2010 and restored the judgment of 4 august 2009 on its own motion, considering that:“in the interest of lawfulness and taking into account the principle of legal certainty recognised by the russian federation the presidium considers it possible and necessary to go beyond the arguments developed in the supervisory review application. as repeatedly indicated the european court (ryabykh v. russia, no. 52854/99, §§ 51‑53, echr 2003‑ix, khotuleva v. russia, no. 27114/04, 30 july 2009) in order to preserve the aforementioned principle final judgments shall remain unchanged. legal certainty presupposes that it is not permissible to have a second examination of the once decided case in the absence of fundamental errors. taking into account the aforementioned principle, the final decision in the present case should be the judgment of the belgorod regional court of 4 august 2009 which granted certain damages to the claimant and rejected her claims for the rest, including as regards unjust enrichment. in the course of the new examination by the cassation court the principles above have not been taken into account, this omission resulted in a violation of the principle of legal certainty provided by article 6 § 1 of the convention and undermined the stability of a binding judicial act. on 3 november 2010 a single judge at the supreme court refused the applicant’s supervisory review application.
on 25 march 2004 the applicant company concluded a contract with univerzal banka ad (hereinafter “the bank”), a private institution based in belgrade. under the terms of this contract, the applicant company acquired a debt belonging to the bank resulting from a final court judgment of 28 december 1999. that judgment was rendered against a socially-owned company called mehanizacija (hereinafter “the debtor company”) with its seat in vladičin han. on 29 august 2000, upon the bank’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and the debtor company subsequently paid a part of the judgment debt. on 14 april 2005, upon the applicant company’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court again ordered the full enforcement of the judgment in question. on 26 july 2005 the applicant company concluded a settlement with the debtor company, which was later annulled following an application by the debtor company by a decision of the leskovac commercial court of 22 january 2009. that decision became final on 3 march 2010. on 24 december 2001 the leskovac commercial court ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant company specified amounts. on 2 february 2005, upon the applicant company’s application to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment. on 1 march 2010 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company. as a result, all of the other ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor company were stayed. the applicant company duly reported its claims based on the above-mentioned judgments. on 15 october 2010 the leskovac commercial court recognised a part of the applicant company’s claims and instructed the applicant company to initiate civil proceedings in respect of the remainder. on 29 may 2012 the leskovac commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant company and dismissed the remainder of its claims. that decision was upheld by the commercial appeals court on 25 october 2013. the domestic courts found that the contract which the applicant company had concluded with the bank (see paragraph 5 above) entitled it only to the recovery of the amount paid for the transfer of the debt owed to the bank in question, not the judgment debt itself. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing.
the applicants were born in 1972, 1980, 1937 and 1925 respectively and live in vilnius. submitted the necessary documents to the kaunas city municipality. the kaunas city council held that 22.42 sq. m of the house would be returned to l.n., m would be returned in natura to the third applicant. the decision also indicated that the remaining part of the house would be returned in natura when the tenants of the house had been provided with other premises, or compensation would be paid if the premises were not returned. and the fourth applicant asked the authorities to pay them compensation for the part of the house that had not been returned in natura. on the same day, the kaunas city board amended the decision of 11 april 1995, establishing that the remaining part of the house would not be returned, compensation of ltl 79,730 (approximately eur 23,091) would be paid to l.n., the third and the fourth applicants were paid compensation on 17 october 1996 and 18 october 1996. the third and the fourth applicants lodged a claim with the domestic courts in order to have the part of the decision of the authorities of 11 april 1995 by which the premises of 22.42 sq. the value of the property was calculated on 14 april 2008. on 1 june 2009, in accordance with an application by l.n., the third and the fourth applicants to receive compensation for 22.42 sq. m of the house, ltl 30,000 (approximately eur 8,689) in total were paid to them. in january 2008 the centre of registers assessed the market value of the house in 1996 at ltl 855,000 (approximately eur 247,625) and established that the remaining compensation to be paid was ltl 615,809 (approximately eur 178,350) in total. the third and the fourth applicants were asked to fill in a form in order to receive their compensation; they did so on 1, 20 and 4 april 2008 respectively. the compensation was adjusted in line with the inflation index and amounted to ltl 818,458 (approximately eur 237,042) and was paid on 17 july 2008. each person received ltl 272,819 (approximately eur 79,014). died, and the first, the second applicants, who became her heirs, the third and the fourth applicants lodged a claim with the kaunas regional administrative court, asking for the annulation of one part of the order of the authorities of 19 march 2008 (see paragraph 20 above), and to oblige the authorities to calculate the remaining compensation as well as the compensation that had already been paid in accordance with the market price of the house in 2008. the applicants appealed, and on 29 march 2010 the supreme administrative court partly overturned the decision of the court of first instance.
the applicant was born in 1977 (in some of the documents submitted his year of birth was also stated as 1979). his relatives learned about his arrest and extradition from the news report. on the same date, 23 february 2006, the applicant was taken to remand prison iz-77/4 in moscow. on 25 february 2006 the applicant was told that his aunt, ms kh. he again had to memorise the details regarding the crimes allegedly perpetrated by him; the police officers instructed him regarding places, methods and other details concerning the crimes he was accused of perpetrating. a statement dated 13 september 2007); and mr m. ga. ( he does not complain about the state of his health. the applicant was not provided with a copy of that decision. on 6 september the chechnya deputy prosecutor overruled the decision of 25 may 2006 and returned the case to the investigators for further inquiries. on 20 october 2006 the investigator, mr i.kh. refused to investigate the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, stating, inter alia:“... according to the record of the initial medical examination carried out by the ivs of the orb-2, the examinations conducted on 7 march, 17 march, 29 march, 10 april, 24 may, 13 june and 11 july 2006 did not reveal any bodily injuries ...according to the documents received from sizo 20/1 dated 14 march 2006 and 5 june 2006 concerning bodily injuries allegedly sustained by a. mukayev, the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings. he stated that the guards had not used physical force against him ...when questioned about the origins of the injuries, including the haemorrhage of the upper-right arm and the haematoma on his left hip found on [the applicant] when he was brought to sizo 20/1 on 1 june 2006, a. mukayev explained that he had been taken for interrogation. the escort guards had behaved normally towards him ...”the applicant was not provided with a copy of this decision. on an unspecified date between december 2007 and february 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal with the zavodskoy district court against the decision of 9 december 2007 by the investigator of the leninskiy district investigative committee not to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers (see paragraph 38 above). as his lawyer, but the investigators did not allow him access to the applicant. ... under the law, a lawyer must obtain the approval of the head of the bar association for him to represent a client in criminal proceedings. on the basis of the complaints received by the bar association against the lawyer g. ber., his complaints were dismissed as unsubstantiated. he pleaded not guilty in respect of the murders and admitted his guilt only in respect of the unlawful acquisition of a gun and of being in possession of false identity documents. in respect of the applicant’s allegations of torture, the trial court stated that there were“... no grounds for distrusting the statement given by the operational search officer mr as.vak.
the applicants are:1) mr oleg petrovich orlov, who was born in 1953,2) mr artem dmitrievich vysotskiy, who was born in 1974,3) mr stanislav valeryevich goryachikh, who was born in 1986, and4) mr karen edvardovich sakhinov, who was born in 1982. the second applicant was a reporter for ren tv, a russian television company. one of the intruders told him in unaccented russian that they were from the ministry of the interior. they then pulled a black plastic bag over his head and, continuing to beat him, took him out of the room and down to the minibus. one of the abductors told the driver that the hotel had been “mopped-up” and ordered him to drive off. (a)  main witness statements taken during the investigation 17. who stated that their hotel was usually guarded by police security officers, but they had been called off duty at about 9 p.m. on 23 november 2007 when a deputy minister of the interior of ingushetia had telephoned the hotel and ordered them to leave the premises. the witness had asked the second deputy minister whether he had been aware that his security had been called off, and he had confirmed that he had been aware of it. on 24 november 2007 the investigators again questioned the third applicant, whose statement was similar to the account before the court. he also stated that the abductors, who had acted as a well-organised professional group, had beaten him and the other applicants severely, and that he had lost consciousness at least once. on 26 november 2007 the investigators questioned police sergeant i.s., the intruders had guarded all the exits and entrances to the hotel, the stairs and the elevator. he had not known that on that date the applicants had been staying at the hotel and learnt of their abduction and beating only the following morning when he read the police service incidents report. on 18 january 2008 the investigators questioned first deputy minister of the interior of ingushetia mr s. seliverstov, whose statement was similar to that given by mr v. selivanov (see the paragraph above). the persons questioned were primarily teachers or administrators. on 29 november 2007 the medical forensic examiner issued report no. he was discharged from hospital on 4 december 2007. on 26 november 2007 the investigators seized and examined the registration log of the hotel guests. telephoned the hotel at about 9 p.m. and recalled the police security officers; [...]9) to identify the police officers who had manned the checkpoints on motorway “kavkaz” on 23 november 2007 and question them about the passage of the gazel minibus and examine the passing vehicles’ registration logs; [...]15) to identify persons who had been staying at the hotel at the material time and question them about the events; [...]17) to establish whether there were cctv cameras inside and outside the hotel and examine their contents; [...]” 51. had they been members of illegal armed groups, they would have targeted the officials and not the applicants;-  the perpetrators identified themselves to the hotel receptionists as members of an anti-terrorism unit.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in tambov. on 8 august 2003 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region ordered municipal unitary enterprise of housing maintenance no. 1 («умпжх №1», hereinafter “debtor company”) to pay 348 euros (eur) to ms lisova aleksandra semenovna. the judgment became final on 19 august 2003. on 11 september 2003 the bailiffs’ service initiated enforcement proceedings. following ms lisova’s death, on 08 july 2005 the justice of the peace of the 1st court circuit of the leninskiy district of the tambov region replaced the initial applicant, mrs lisova, by her successor, mrs karpesh, in the enforcement proceedings. the award was subsequently index-linked in the course of the enforcement proceedings by the decisions of 02 march 2006 (final on 14 march 2006), 09 april 2007 (final on 20 april 2007), 09 january 2008 (final on 22 january 2008), and 27 march 2008 (final on 08 april 2008). each decision replaced and cancelled the previous one. the award has not been paid to the applicant to date. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration and provided housing maintenance services. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out their statutory activities. on 30 may 2008 the debtor company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started. as a result, the company was liquidated on 27 may 2009.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in vila nova de famalicão. on 17 september 2003 he instituted inventory proceedings (processo de inventário) before the vila nova de famalicão court in order to obtain the division of the property of his great-uncle, j.c., on 13 february and 13 june 2004 two additional groups of heirs sought to intervene in the proceedings as parties. the applicant was notified of these requests on 23 may 2005. between that date and 3 september 2007 contact information with regard to some of the heirs was submitted by the administrator of the estate, the heirs who had sought to intervene in the proceedings were granted leave to do so (see paragraph 7 above), and land registry certificates were requested and added to the case-file. lodged a request to be allowed to intervene in the proceedings. on 24 june 2009 the administrator of the estate requested permission to step down from his post for health reasons. on 15 october 2009 the court granted her request and appointed a new administrator of the estate. on 24 march 2010 a meeting of the parties (conferência de interessados) took place. as a party to the proceedings and appointed an expert to value the immovable property left by j.c. the meeting was postponed pending the expert’s report. on 7 june 2010, after requesting an extension of the initial thirty-day time-limit, the expert submitted his report. criticised the expert’s report, on 9 march 2011 the expert submitted a second report. on 21 march 2012 the expert was asked by the court to give information about the value of the properties, which he did on 9 may 2012. between 7 january 2008 and 18 april 2013, a meeting of the parties was scheduled, re-scheduled or postponed twelve times, the last of them for an unknown date. between 11 february 2008 and 18 april 2013 the court was informed four times of the deaths of parties to the proceedings. procedural steps were taken to identify their heirs in order to continue the proceedings with those heirs as parties. as the letters summoning some of the newly identified heirs had been returned to the court, between 10 september 2013 and 17 december 2013 more steps were taken in order to try to summon them. on 6 february 2014 the administrator of the estate informed the court that she was unable to obtain information about the missing addresses of some of the heirs of a deceased party. according to the latest information received by the court on 10 january 2016, on that date the proceedings were still pending at first instance.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in kaliningrad. until 1999 the applicant was married to z. and was living with her in a state-owned flat which had been provided to z.’s parents. the applicant was registered as living in that flat. in 1999 the applicant and z. divorced and the applicant moved in with his new partner, b. at that time he did not apply for deregistration from the flat which he had occupied with his former wife. later z. privatised that flat, and the applicant lost occupational right to it. b. occupied a room in a three-room communal flat under a social tenancy agreement. the other two rooms were occupied by her neighbours. they never married and the applicant was not registered as living in the room. he submitted that he and b. had been living in the room as husband and wife since 1988, but that after her death her neighbours had locked him out of the room. the local administration submitted that the applicant had not been registered as living in b.’s room, he was not a member of b.’s family and, therefore, he had not acquired any right to occupy her room. they confirmed that between 1999 and 2009 the applicant had lived in the room with b. and had provided her with financial support. the local administration did not appeal against the judgment of 6 may 2010. the third parties appealed against that judgment to the kaliningrad regional court (“the regional court”). they submitted that b. had on several occasions chased the applicant away. the applicant had not paid any utility charges for the room and had been registered as living elsewhere until b.’s death. on 22 september 2010 the regional court quashed the judgment of 6 may 2010 and dismissed the applicant’s claims. n. [the applicant], the court [the district court] proceeded from the premise that there existed exceptional circumstances allowing it to recognise him as a member of ms brazhnikova’s [b.’s] family in accordance with article 69 § 1 of the housing code. throughout the period in which he lived together with ms brazhnikova l.p., as well as acknowledging his right to occupy the flat in question. on 3 march 2011 a judge of the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) refused to refer the applicant’s application for supervisory review of the decision of 22 september 2010 to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination, finding no grounds for such review and relying on the principle of legal certainty.
on 26 june 2006 the leskovac commercial court ordered ad perper-agrar, a socially-owned company based in bošnjace (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of damages. that judgment became final on 14 july 2006. on 31 october 2006, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the leskovac commercial court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 27 may 2011 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 3 february 2012 the applicant’s claim was formally recognised. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 22 april 2003, the debtor had been privatised and changed its name to ad perper-agrar. on 5 may 2005 the privatisation contract had been annulled and on 8 september 2006 the debtor’s name was changed to agrar fruit. according to the serbian ministry of economy, the debtor is still a company predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital (see http://www.priv.rs/ministarstvo-privrede/90/agrar-fruit--u-stecaju.shtml/companyid=1238, accessed on 6 december 2016). in their additional observations of 19 april 2016 the government informed the court that the applicant had transferred its judgment claims to a third person on 28 october 2015. on 9 november 2016, as a response to the government’s additional observations, the applicant submitted that the contract regarding the transfer of the claims in question had been terminated by 11 december 2015.
the applicant was born in 1968 and her two sons in 2001 (d.b.) in the period between 2002 and march 2009 the family lived together in their home in s., a small town located on the central dalmatian coast, north-west of the town of split. she was diagnosed as suffering from severe anxiety and depression caused by her current family situation. the child is very anxious and upset when the issue of going to the father is mentioned, [as evidenced by his] emotional reaction. the experts recommended that custody be awarded to the applicant because that would be less painful for the children. on 19 october 2009 the split social welfare centre submitted its report and recommendation, stating that reconciliation between the spouses was not possible because their relationship was deeply strained. if the court were nevertheless to decide to obtain such an opinion they suggested that the task be assigned to an expert institution in zagreb. the applicant did not attend the hearing on 5 november 2010 at which the court decided to hear as witnesses at the next hearing scheduled for 1 february 2011 the older son’s school teacher and school pedagogue, the younger son’s kindergarten teacher, and the psychiatrist, dr j.š. and- granted the applicant contact rights, to be exercised every second weekend in i., from friday evening until sunday afternoon so that the father could bring the children to her in i. and she could return them to him in s. 51. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. at the same hearing the court ordered the split social welfare centre to conduct a thorough examination of both parents and the children. ... [t]he mother has so far done everything she can, that is to say she has been calling, asking about the children. the older son cried, refused to see the applicant and stated that he wanted her to leave. ...it is to be noted that any involvement of children in conflict between parents ... inevitably has harmful consequences for their development. see paragraph 63 above) stated that during the first two therapy sessions she could not gain the children’s trust, and that they perceived any contact with their mother as a threat to the current state of affairs and as bringing a change they could not accept. in her report of 19 september 2013 the psychiatrist dr d.b., meanwhile, at a hearing held on 11 november 2013 the split municipal court heard the parties and the representative of the split social welfare centre and decided to obtain a combined opinion from forensic experts in psychology and psychiatry with a view to determining the causes of the children’s refusal to have contact with their mother. and other doctors so that the children might adjust [their behaviour to accommodate] judicial decisions ... it also follows that the suspect is in constant contact with the [split] social welfare centre and that the supervising officer visits his home and checks the situation of the children, who, on the other hand, when pressured to see the mother, threaten to call the police, run away from home or do something else inappropriate.” at a hearing held on 31 august 2015 the applicant, relying on the above expert opinion, requested that i.b. to be deprived of custody would be examined within the present proceedings, together with her initial request for a change in contact arrangements;- ordered the split social welfare centre to appoint a special guardian (ad litem) for the children, pursuant to section 167(6) of the family act (see paragraph 101 below) and to submit a report and recommendations regarding the applicant’s request for i.b.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in bacău. in may 2015 the applicant was transferred to focşani prison from where he was conditionally released in 2016. m, which he shared with eleven prisoners; a second measuring 39.36 sq. m, shared with seventeen other prisoners. toiletries were provided within the limits of the prison budget. the food prepared was always tested by the prison doctor and a representative of the prisoners and the results were marked in a register. in vaslui prison the applicant was assigned to a semi-open detention regime. m, including a storage closet of 0.75 sq. after deducting the surface of the in-cell sanitary facility and the storage closet from the overall surface of the cells, the applicant had personal space of 2.03 sq. m available for several non-consecutive periods totalling ten months. according to the government, the cells in which the applicant was accommodated were put in use on 1 may 2012 when new mattresses and bed clothes were distributed. the cells were provided with natural light and ventilation through windows measuring 116 x 115 cm. artificial lighting was also provided as well as the necessary furniture. hot water was provided for two hours twice per week while cold water was provided without interruption. between april 2013 and august 2014, washing powder, chlorine, soap and toilet paper were distributed to prisoners on a monthly basis. he was released with the prescription of hepatoprotective and anti-inflammatory drugs and a special diet. arteriopathy obliterans of the lower limbs was added to his previous diagnosis. he was diagnosed with lateral, latero-frontal maxillary edentation and latero-terminal mandibulary edentation. on 28 august 2013 he was treated for an abscess and was prescribed antibiotics. on 18 december 2013 in reply to the applicant’s request the national prisons administration confirmed that he needed dental prostheses for which the price should be calculated by the prison dentist.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in kharkiv. who tried to obtain false confessions from her concerning her and other persons’ involvement in drug dealing. however, the applicant was neither arrested, nor detained by the police at that time. on 17 april 2009 this complaint was rejected as unsubstantiated. on 31 march 2010 kyivskyy district court in kharkiv, which examined the criminal case against the applicant, ordered the prosecutor’s office to inquire into her ill-treatment complaint lodged again during the trial. on 26 june 2009 a new set of criminal proceedings was instituted against the applicant on suspicion of selling opium to three men on 24 june 2009 and of storing a jar of opium in her house (“the second set of criminal proceedings”). on the same date the applicant complained to the kharkiv regional department of the interior that she had been ill-treated by the police. as the applicant had protested, he had threatened and punched her on various parts of her body. on 27 july 2009 another medical expert, after examining the applicant and various medical records, concluded that the applicant’s cerebral trauma could be classified as a moderately serious injury. on an unspecified date the prosecutor’s office began a preliminary investigation into the applicant’s complaints, in the course of which a number of people were questioned as potential witnesses, including the police officers implicated by the applicant in her ill-treatment, the lay witnesses, who had signed the police report concerning seizure of opium from the applicant on 24 june 2009, the three men implicated in buying opium from the applicant, the applicant’s partner, brother, guests, and the applicant herself. two men identified as the lay witnesses gave statements largely consistent with the police officers’ submissions. later on, they had been arbitrarily caught by the police and made to write false confessions, admitting that they had bought opium from the applicant, on pain of criminal sanctions. her brother), and two persons identified by the applicant as the guests present during the purported forced entry, gave statements similar to the ones the applicant had provided to the department of the interior on 26 june 2009. on 22 september 2009 the applicant joined those proceedings as an aggrieved party. on 21 january 2011 a further medical report was obtained. it was also noted that, as regards the bruises which had been documented in july 2009, they could have been inflicted on the dates and in the manner reported by the applicant. as his accomplice, he had been given witness status only, which had restricted his procedural rights, including the right to defence. the applicant’s former partner) and a.b. ( based on the case file, the second guest (the fourth person, who had earlier contended that he had witnessed the forced entry), was not questioned. it appears that the applicant was not informed of the above decision in due time, as in 2012 the applicant’s lawyers unsuccessfully contacted the law-enforcement authorities to obtain information on whether there had been any progress in the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in strausberg. before the reunification of germany he lived in the former gdr, serving in the police force from 1952 to 1954. he was sentenced to one year and eight months’ imprisonment and served 14 months in prison. on 13 february 1995 the president of the frankfurt (oder) regional court, acting as the competent authority, awarded him compensation of 8,250 german marks, equivalent to about 4,218 euros (eur), pursuant to section 17 in conjunction with section 16 §§ 1 and 3 of the criminal rehabilitation act. on 18 february 2009 the president of the regional court, relying on section 48 §§ 1 and 2, third sentence, no. the president considered that the decisions had been unlawful from the beginning as the prerequisites for either entitlement had never been met and that the applicant could not legitimately rely on these decisions being maintained, as he had obtained them by giving information that was substantially incorrect. on 9 march 2009 the applicant applied for judicial review of that decision and asked to be heard in person. his father had returned, incapacitated for work, from soviet captivity only in 1947 or 1948. while serving in the police forces he had not been aware of working for other government agencies. in any case, he ruled out that the wording was his own and that he had known that the reports were to be used by the state security service. on 16 february 2010 the frankfurt (oder) regional court, sitting as a chamber of three judges, dismissed the applicant’s request for judicial review, finding that his work as a secret informant for the ministry of state security was of such nature, scope and duration that it was reprehensible enough to justify ruling out the applicant’s eligibility for compensation payments pursuant to section 16 § 2 of the criminal rehabilitation act. acknowledging that in a dictatorship which lasted for decades, minor involvement with the regime was frequent, it considered that the applicant’s position as a secret informant of the state security service did not itself suffice to trigger the application of that provision. this could be assumed when a secret informant voluntarily reported on others and the reports could potentially cause persecution by the state security service. in that case compensation payments were ruled out, no matter how great the offender’s own suffering had been. the courts were not to compare the extent of suffering involved. the regional court observed that the applicant had penned a handwritten commitment to serve the state security service after he had already reported twice on others. the applicant mainly reported on their contacts with west germany and west berlin. an intention to leave the former gdr without permission, in particular, could have led to severe criminal persecution of the persons involved. the reports were not meaningless but contained valuable information for the state security service. he had reported twice on others, even before being recruited by the state security service.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s father co-owned a plot of land and a house in sofia. by a decision of the mayor of 15 july 1981 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing residential buildings. the decision, based on section 98 (1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973 (закон за териториалното и селищно устройство), provided that the applicant’s father and the applicant were to receive a three-room flat in compensation. it was to have a surface of 109 square metres and was identified as flat no. 17 on the fifth floor of a residential building which was to be constructed by a state-owned enterprise. lastly, it was decided that the flat would be given directly to the applicant. in 1989 the applicant paid to the authorities the part of the value of the future flat which had not been covered by the value of the expropriated property. in 1990 the sofia municipality settled him temporarily in a flat which was property of the state-owned enterprise b. 9. on an unspecified date the construction of the building where the flat was to be located was commenced. in 1996 the sofia municipality concluded a contract with the company b., successor of the state-owned enterprise, delegating to it the construction works. the company was under an obligation to build, at its own expense, and deliver to the municipality, within twenty-four months, the flats earmarked for compensation of the expropriated owners; in exchange of that it was to become the owner of the remainder of the building. however, the construction was not completed within the deadline set. in 2005, in the context of the winding-up of the company b., the building, still unfinished, was sold to another company. the latter apparently resold the property to a third company, which in 2006 obtained a notary deed declaring it the owner of the building and the flats in it, including one half of flat no. 17 on the fifth floor; however, unlike what was indicated in the decision of 25 march 1987 (see paragraph 7 above), that flat was described as having a surface of 91, and not 109, square metres. the applicant submitted a certificate of occupancy of the building at issue, dated 5 october 2007, but claimed that it only concerned “certain construction activities” and that the building was not in use. in the meantime, the applicant filed several requests with the municipal authorities in sofia asking them to complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to him. in a letter of 25 july 2000 the municipality informed him that the company b. had reassured the authorities that it was making effort to fulfill its obligations. lastly, in a letter of 8 november 2011 the sofia municipality informed the applicant that he should have raised his claims in the winding-up procedure of the company b., or should contact the current owner of the building to claim the flat due to him.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in athens. the applicant is a businessman and chairman of a public limited company. on 23 september 2010 the public prosecutor at the athens court of appeal ordered the attica police department to carry out searches at fifteen residential and business premises in various locations in athens and the attica region, including the applicant’s address, in the context of a preliminary police investigation being conducted in respect of s.g. the applicant was not referred to by name as being suspected of involvement in the offences in question. the prosecutor’s warrant was worded as follows:“on the basis of decision no. and by other persons connected with them and acting in collaboration with them. in view of the material gathered to date and in order to avoid the loss of decisive evidence, we hereby order searches, in application of articles 253-259 of the code of criminal procedure, at the residential and professional premises located in the following streets:28-30 rue meletopoulou, palaio psychiko;...in addition, should you consider it necessary, carry out body searches of the persons present in these homes and offices. on 24 september 2010 a police officer, accompanied by a deputy prosecutor, went to the applicant’s home. in the presence of a witness (a neighbour, a national of the netherlands), they conducted a search and seized numerous items (two computers and hundreds of documents). the search lasted for twelve and a half hours. a 41-page list of items and documents was drawn up. on 8 november 2012 the applicant applied to the indictment division at the athens court of appeal to have the search declared null and void, the seizure order lifted and the seized items returned. on 13 february 2013 the indictment division dismissed his application. the main issue examined by it was whether a search and seizure operation could be carried out in the course of a preliminary police investigation. it noted that the preliminary police investigation (προκαταρκτική εξέταση) and the subsequent pre-trial investigation (προανάκριση) pursued a common goal, that of establishing the truth. it held that this difference was not such as to deprive the bodies responsible for investigating a case of an important tool for uncovering decisive items of evidence, otherwise there would be a serious risk of a finding that there was no case to answer without the authorities having been able to exhaust all the investigatory options available to them. referring to a legal opinion by professors d. tsatsos, a. papadima and k. chrysogonos (published in the poiniki dikaiosyni magazine, no. the indictment division held that the preliminary police investigation was judicial and not administrative in nature and that it was one stage in the criminal procedure. it pointed out that any subsequent proceedings would have been impossible if this evidence had not been gathered, and that, given that these items were particularly decisive and crucial for the investigation of the case, they ought to remain in the case file. on 13 march 2013 the prosecutor dismissed that request.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in reykjavik. for some unknown reason, the police had not instigated an investigation. on 8 november 2010 pressan published an article about comments made by a to a newspaper where he rejected all the allegations and threatened pressan with a lawsuit for being the first to publish the allegations. the article was based on an interview with the sisters and statements on their website. pictures of the sisters were published with all the articles. other media also published articles and interviews with the sisters. a argued that responsibility for the statements lay with the applicant as the editor of pressan by virtue of section 15 of the printing act, applied by analogy, since the author of the articles was not identified. he gave a statement before the district court, but was not involved further in the proceedings. he also stated that he had tried to establish the sisters’ credibility and the truthfulness of the allegations by interviewing the sisters, a’s son, the police, one of the sisters’ employers, another alleged victim and other people mentioned by the sisters in their writings, who could confirm that the allegations were not appearing for the first time because of a’s candidacy, but had been known to the family and the police for years. b had also tried to contact the child protection services, without success. by judgment of 22 february 2012 the district court found in favour of the applicant. there would be general elections, where the same rules about eligibility and the right to vote applied as in the parliamentary election”...when the statements in sections a-c are compared to the sisters’ writings on their website on 2 november 2010, the court has to agree with [the applicant] that both the headline in section a and the statements in sections b and c are verbatim from their letter. [...] therefore, he will not be held accountable for the statements which are directly quoted from the sisters, which the latter have confirmed before the court to be theirs. the statement in section d that appeared as a headline on [pressan] quotes the sisters’ replies but is partly rephrased. on 1 august 2012 a appealed to the supreme court against the district court’s judgment. it does not change anything that the journalist discussed the matter with [a] and others, who claimed they could testify about the incident, while working on the story and [a] rejected the allegations. everyone shall be free to express his thoughts, but shall also be liable to answer for them in court. a person who is found guilty of a defamatory allegation may be ordered to pay to the injured person, on the latter’s demand, a reasonable amount to cover the cost of the publication of a judgment, its main contents or reasoning, as circumstances may warrant in one or more public newspapers or publications.” section 26(1) of the tort liability act no. by judgment of 24 november 2011 (case no 100/2011), which concerned defamation proceedings against editors and a journalist of a newspaper and newspaper website, the supreme court of iceland found that before the media act entered into force, there had been no applicable legal rule about the responsibility of an editor of web-based media which published material solely online.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in lublin. from 8 may 2009 the applicant was detained on remand on suspicion of having committed several armed robberies. he was charged with several counts of armed robbery. on 24 february 2011 the lublin district court gave a judgment in the applicant’s case (ix k 79/11). the incident of 21 february 2011 was notified to a prosecutor who investigated whether an offence had been committed. the applicant appealed against the decision of 24 february 2011, but on 27 april 2011 the lublin regional court upheld it. the applicant appealed against that decision. the applicant, as noted by the prison officers and a psychologist, was calm, disciplined, and following the internal regulations. on 5 december 2011 the applicant was transferred to opole lubelskie prison. on 3 january 2012 the governor of opole lubelskie prison applied to the prison commission to impose the “dangerous detainee” regime on the applicant. he submitted that since the applicant’s arrival at the prison he had been aggressive towards the prison officers and had been trying to gain prominence in the prison community by plotting to assault a senior officer of the service. there exists a real risk to the security of the prison. his negative attitude is a destructive influence on the atmosphere and order in the wing and in the prison. in his second request of 28 june 2012 the governor of rzeszow prison pointed out that another disciplinary sanction had been imposed on the applicant for disobeying an order to leave his cell. the prison authorities acknowledged that the applicant had also received rewards for good behaviour and had started to take his daily walks with another inmate in order to see how he would function in a group. the governor considered that the applicant remained interested in belonging to the prison community and that his behaviour continued to pose a risk to the security of the prison. on 27 september and 27 december 2012 the governor of rzeszow prison made further requests to extend the measure imposed on the applicant. the governor noted that the applicant had received some punishments and three rewards, but that it could still not be guaranteed that he would function correctly in the prison. the applicant’s behaviour had improved, he complied with internal regulations and was no longer aggressive towards the prison officers. between 17 june 2009 and 9 december 2011 the applicant accumulated 372 polish zlotys (pln) in his release savings fund.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sarbice pierwsze. in june 1999 the applicant moved to new zealand and the proceedings against him were stayed. on 13 march 2010 the kielce district court (sąd rejonowy) decided to detain him on remand for a period of three months, until 9 june 2010. the court referred to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offences with which he was charged and in respect of which he would face, if found guilty, deprivation of liberty for a term exceeding eight years. on 29 july 2010 the cracow court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) upheld the challenged decision, confirming the regional court’s view that the detention had been justified by the severe penalty and the possibility that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings. further hearings were scheduled for 2 and 30 december 2010, 25 january, 17 february, 17 march, 5 and 28 april, 17 may, 16 june, 14 july, 4 august, 6, 27 and 29 september, 6 and 27 october, 10 and 24 november, and 8 december 2011. apart from the grounds previously relied on, the court noted that the applicant had requested that several new witnesses be heard and considered that he might influence their testimony if released. on 21 june 2011 the kielce regional court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 december 2011. the court noted that the results of the applicant’s recent treatment in the łódź prison hospital ward had been satisfactory and that according to the experts in neurology and orthopaedics (see paragraph 21 above) he could be treated in prison facilities. meanwhile, on 28 june 2011, the applicant underwent a medical examination ordered by the kielce regional court. the government contested this submission. apparently, the court had not yet become aware of the medical expert opinion of 14 november 2011. according to the last information available to the court, the criminal proceedings against him are still pending. as stated by the government and not contested by the applicant, the applicant had an easy access to the shower. on 1 june 2010 the applicant underwent a further neurological examination. however, since the chair which he received in the detention centre was, according to his submission, in such a state that its use constituted a danger for persons using it, the applicant requested his wife to provide him with another wheelchair; this she did, on 8 october 2010, with the approval of the prison authorities. - neurological examination”the applicant submitted another note made by a neurologist, which read:“today [he] lost consciousness. while undressing, he easily lifts his legs without manifesting pain. when he stands up he drags his left leg and claims that he cannot stand on that leg because it is weak. he also consulted a dermatologist, orthopaedist, neurologist and ophthalmologist.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in otwock. by depriving the alleged victims of their liberty and threatening to kill them. on 7 november 2003 the jarosław district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment. the applicant lodged several applications for release. the first hearing was scheduled for 18 june 2002 but was ultimately adjourned. on 30 july and 29 august 2002 the trial court held the first two hearings in the case and on 27 august 2002 it ordered that the applicant undergo psychiatric observation. this decision was upheld by the siedlce regional court on 2 october 2002. on 5 november 2002 the mińsk mazowiecki district court once more extended the applicant’s detention. in addition, the second-instance court addressed the arguments which had been raised in an interlocutory appeal brought by the applicant against the district court’s decision. it also considered that only the most severe preventive measure and not bail, as the applicant had suggested, could ensure the proper conduct of the proceedings. it was observed that he could not at that stage be placed under psychiatric observation because his presence was necessary in the court before which his other criminal case was pending and because that court had not authorised the measure. on 11 december 2003 the jarosław district court ordered that the applicant undergo psychiatric observation in the psychiatric wing of the warszawa-mokotów remand centre. on 28 january 2004 the siedlce regional court dismissed an interlocutory appeal brought by the applicant against this decision. the period he had already spent in detention on remand, namely one month and twenty-one days (from 11 july until 1 september 2005), was deducted from his sentence. on 10 february 2006 the siedlce regional court quashed the judgment of 1 september 2005 (see paragraph 45 above) and remitted the case to the first-instance court, ordering it to gather additional evidence. on 12 february 2010 the applicant appealed. in connection with the second part of the complaint (see paragraph 61 above), the constitutional court held that the applicant did not have the standing to challenge article 263 § 3 of the code because this provision had not been applicable to his detention in the relevant period. on 18 july 2003 the lubaczów district prosecutor discontinued criminal proceedings against several judges of the jarosław district court who, in the applicant’s view, had monitored his correspondence with his lawyer. this decision was upheld by the lubaczów district court on 25 november 2003. it was delivered in an envelope bearing the stamp “jarosław district court” and a handwritten note stating “censored on 26 july 2002” (cenzurowano dn.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lived in sremska mitrovica. it found that the applicant, after a quarrel in which his neighbour accused him of war profiteering, intentionally shot the neighbour in the head with a rifle, leaving him dead on the spot. it further found that the entire event had taken place in front of several eyewitnesses. the applicant was then sent to serve his prison sentence in “beli manastir district prison” (okružni zatvor u belom manastiru). the entity was never recognised as a state by the respondent state. shortly after the adoption of the erdut agreement, and upon the request of the “beli manastir district prison”, the applicant was transferred on 20 june 1996 to sremska mitrovica prison (kazneno-popravni zavod sremska mitrovica), which is on the territory of the respondent state. the reason for the transfer was listed as “security concerns”. no proceedings for recognition and enforcement of a foreign prison sentence were conducted by the authorities of the republic of serbia. the applicant remained in sremska mitrovica prison until 5 february 1999, when he was released for annual leave until 15 february 1999. on 7 july 2010, the applicant was arrested when he attempted to enter serbia from croatia. he was sent to sremska mitrovica prison to serve the remainder of his sentence. on 4 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal challenging the lawfulness of his imprisonment. on 10 may 2012 the constitutional court found that there was no violation of the applicant’s right to liberty. it further noted that the procedure governing the recognition of a foreign criminal sentence and its enforcement was not applicable in the applicant’s case because serbian krajina was not a state. the court concluded that the applicant’s transfer had been carried out for factual reasons – the deteriorating security situation in the war zone which could lead to the applicant’s escape from prison or his death. the court further noted that the applicant had been convicted of murder by which the right to life was violated, and that states have positive obligations to protect this right. on 7 march 2011 the applicant initiated civil proceedings for compensation for unlawful imprisonment. on 13 december 2012 the first instance court in belgrade rejected the applicant’s claim finding that he had been lawfully convicted of murder by the courts of the “republic of srpska krajina” and that his imprisonment cannot be considered as unlawful. on 16 april 2014 the belgrade appellate court confirmed this judgment. on 6 june 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law before the supreme court of cassation.
the applicant is a man who is intellectually disabled. in june 2006 the foster family, the applicant and one of his brothers moved to a village in the north of finland. the removal of the children was not authorised by the competent child welfare authority. on 4 november 2008 a mentor (edunvalvoja, intressebevakare) was appointed for the applicant for matters other than those pertaining to his person. on 25 january 2009 the former foster parents took the applicant to the north of finland, invoking his decision to move there to live with them. he considered them to be his real family. on 8 april 2011 the applicant asked the district court to discharge the mentor appointed for him from her duties as far as matters pertaining to his place of residence and education were concerned. in its judgment, the court put on record the various testimonies. consequently, the evaluation concluded that the applicant was not able to consider whether his plans about future were realistic and what consequences or implications they would have. the applicant had in his home town a support network consisting of relatives, friends and staff of the social welfare authorities, a job, hobbies and educational possibilities. as matter of law, the district court stated that as, on the evidence, the applicant was not able to understand the significance of the envisaged decision, the mentor was not required, or even permitted, to resolve the question of the applicant’s place of residence in accordance with the applicant’s own wishes. the mentor had not acted in breach of her powers and the district court found no reason to replace the mentor by another person as regards matters concerning the applicant’s place of residence and his education. when the applicant had been removed from the former foster family in 2007 and placed in a children’s home in southern finland, no specific reasons had been given as to why this measure had been in the applicant’s best interests. the decision taken subsequently by the mentor in february 2011 had merely confirmed the earlier decision. as both the present mentor and the proposed replacement were equally competent, the one who had the applicant’s trust should be chosen. according to the information provided by the government, in july 2013 the applicant learned that his foster father had died and he attended his funeral in northern finland. since 2 january 2015 he has been residing in sheltered accommodation, in a small two-room flat. he is a talkative, efficient and well-liked employee and fits in very well in the working community. he is happy with his work and plays floorball twice a week as a hobby. there is nothing in his home town that keeps him there or makes him want to stay there.
the first applicant was born in 1943 and lives in cologne and the second applicant was born in 1940 and lives in stuttgart. the first applicant is the natural son of a mr h., who recognised paternity several months after his birth. the first applicant had a personal relationship with his father and worked in his business. the first applicant appealed against that decision, but on 25 august 2008 the cologne regional court upheld it. on 23 july 2009 the first applicant again applied for a certificate of inheritance stating that he was entitled to 100% of mr h.’s estate, referring in particular to the european court of human rights judgment in the case of brauer v. germany (no. in a decision of 3 november 2009 the cologne district court dismissed the first applicant’s application, holding that the judgment in brauer (cited above) was not applicable to his case. there was a need to protect the legitimate expectations of the deceased and other heirs. the first applicant further noted that he had maintained a close relationship with his father until the latter’s death and had even worked in his business. the first applicant’s father had assumed that the first applicant would be his sole heir. in a decision of 11 october 2010 the cologne court of appeal dismissed the first applicant’s appeal on the grounds that it was bound by the decisions of the federal constitutional court and that it had found that the first sentence of section 12(10)(2) of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act was in conformity with the basic law. the second applicant is the natural son of a mr b. and was born in the former gdr, where he lived until his flight from the country in 1957. the father died on 26 june 2006, naming his daughter as sole heir in his will. that provision was in conformity with the basic law. the special circumstances of brauer (cited above), which were referred to by the regional court, were not conditions that had to be present in order to apply the principles laid down in that judgment. as a consequence he had been denied his inheritance rights. it declared both applicants’ constitutional complaints admissible. the difference between children born outside marriage before and after 1 july 1949 had been abolished by the second inheritance rights equalisation act of 12 april 2011. the general discrimination against children born before and after that date therefore no longer existed. any discriminatory treatment was therefore of a lesser degree. making the reform retroactive was not necessary as the conformity of the relevant provision of the children born outside marriage (legal status) act had been repeatedly confirmed by the federal constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in zagreb. a preliminary report prepared by the police stated that the applicant and her partner had first had an argument with i.m. had then attacked the applicant’s partner. stated that he had then panicked and had drawn a knife in order to scare them. however, the attackers had managed to get hold of š.š. saying that he was a rom and should be killed. ’s version of events, saying that she had been pushed by the two men. fuck your gypsy mother, you should all be exterminated, this will be a white croatia again, you are garbage” (tko je pijan, jebem ti mater cigansku, vas treba istrijebiti, ovo će ponovno biti bijela hrvatska, smeće jedno). but another woman had prevented her from doing so. while she had run away and looked for help. the applicant was mentioned in the criminal complaint as a witness. in the course of the investigation the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office questioned the two suspects and on 17 june and 31 july 2013 it instructed the police to conduct an identification procedure and formal questioning of the applicant and š.š. during her questioning as a witness, the applicant repeated the statement she had given during the first police interview (see paragraph 12 above). the indictment also made reference to the attack on the applicant, suggesting that she had been kicked in the head while trying to save š.š. of the institution of the proceedings in the zagreb municipal criminal court. in the meantime, on 29 july 2013 the applicant and her partner, represented by the lawyer l.k., it was alleged in the criminal complaint that one of the suspects had first pushed the applicant and had then told her that she was a “bitch” (kuja) who had a relationship with a roma man and that she would be beaten. however, the statements of the witnesses š.š. who is of roma origin, but because they were drunk and they accidentally pushed her towards the stalls. in particular, the injury which maja škorjanec sustained would, by its nature, suggest an injury within the meaning of article 177 § 1 of the criminal code. ...
the applicants were born in 1945 and 1935 respectively and live in moscow and lyubertsy. it appears that they were eventually adopted in 2003. in october 2002 a private company, ors-grupp, replaced the state enterprise as the project investor. the investor was required to request expert valuations to determine the market value of the properties being expropriated (see paragraphs 23 and 27 below) and then buy those properties. the court was not provided with a copy of this valuation report. according to the government, on 3 july 2003 there was a meeting between kirova street residents and, apparently, a representative of the local authorities or the private company. m] ...[location] of the assessment object: ...the assessment object is situated in the centre of the old town of lyubertsy. on 23 november 2004, in reply to an enquiry raised by the investor company, the municipality announced that it had no available plots of land that would be equivalent to the land to be expropriated from the applicants, namely those assigned for the construction of individual housing. in late 2004 the town administration brought proceedings in the lyubertsy town court of the moscow region (“the town court”) seeking judicial authorisation for the expropriation of the applicants’ house and land. on 29 december 2004 the town court held a hearing. on 7 april 2005 the municipality’s mayor wrote to the town court asking to speed up the court proceedings, arguing that some of the flats were to be given to the people waiting for social housing and that the procrastination of the proceedings was also prejudicial to the people who had invested in the construction project. after examining the investment project, the court noted that the municipality would gain 5% of the new housing and the related infrastructure. (d)  the court also noted that besides being unfounded, the first applicant’s claim challenging the lawfulness of the 2003 administrative decisions had been submitted after the expiry of the three-month time-limit. m. the second applicant would receive compensation for the land and his part in the house of usd 85,600 and a social tenancy contract for a four-room flat in lyubertsy for his family measuring some 70 sq. on 22 november 2005 the application was examined and rejected by another judge of the regional court. in a letter of 11 october 2006 he agreed with the lower courts’ decisions. (b)  pecuniary claims relating to delayed enforcement and loss of belongings 51. on 10 december 2008 the town court awarded her 89,712 russian roubles (rub) in pecuniary damages arising from the fact that the judgment had actually been enforced on 1 december 2006. in 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the bailiff service, requesting compensation for belongings that had either been lost or damaged during or following demolition of the house. they had all been transferred to her social housing flat and entrusted to a public official for safekeeping; she had had three years to reclaim them.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in tbilisi. on 15 may 1999 the applicant was appointed president of the abasha district court for a ten-year term. he was accused in particular of having retained a criminal case file for six months after withdrawing from the case on 29 october 2003. on 23 december 2004 a panel of the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the panel”), composed of mr k.k. ( the president of the panel and rapporteur), mr g.ch, mr d.s. according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant admitted to the act of negligence he had been accused of. after examining the circumstances of the case, the panel found the applicant guilty of the misconduct in question. it considered his conduct all the more serious because the defendants in the case had been in detention at the time and because he had had a duty, under article 6 of the convention, to act promptly and without fault. the panel took into account the nature of the misconduct, which it classified as serious, and the existence of another disciplinary measure against the applicant in the past, and decided to remove him from office. on 29 december 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal with the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the disciplinary council”) on points of fact and law under section 60(1) of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below). his appeal was examined at a plenary session of the disciplinary council composed of eight members, including the same four, mr k.k., and mr th.th, who had sat at the first hearing. acted as president and rapporteur in the examination of the applicant’s appeal. by a decision of 27 january 2005, the disciplinary council unanimously upheld the panel’s decision of 23 december 2004 in its entirety. the appellate instance confirmed that the lower body had correctly established the facts and applied the relevant law to the factual findings. he argued that he had not been given notice that he could appear before the panel and that there had been a delay in the disciplinary council examining his appeal. he also stated that under article 6 of the convention the four members of the panel who had taken the decision of 23 december 2004 had not had the right to sit subsequently in the disciplinary council appeal hearing. in a judgment of 11 july 2005, the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s cassation appeal as ill-founded. at the hearing the applicant had admitted to the act of negligence with which he had been charged. the supreme court also found that the presence of four members of the panel as participants in the subsequent disciplinary council proceedings had not contravened the requirements of sections 22 and 24 of the disciplinary proceedings act (see paragraph 17 below).
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kaluđerica. on 22 december 2006 the applicant was deprived of liberty on suspicion of participating in criminal association within the police operation “customs mafia” during which 43 persons were also arrested. the applicant was released on 15 june 2007. on 31 july 2009 the investigation against all the accused was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for organised crime. on 28 june 2012 the investigation was closed. on 17 january 2013 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were suspended.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. at about 10.30 a.m. on 24 may 2004 two police officers from the sovetskiy district police visited the applicant and invited him to answer some questions. about forty minutes later they untied him and requested that he confess to the rape. four or five police officers punched and kicked him in the head and body, throttled him with a baton, put a plastic bag over his head and blocked off his access to air, sat and jumped on him having covered him with a blanket, grabbed him by the ears and forced him to do the splits. after being questioned by s. he was released. he remained at the police station for approximately ten hours. he was unable to attend school until 15 june 2004, having been issued a sick note on 26 may 2004 for concussion. no criminal proceedings were brought against him. they were each set aside because a comprehensive inquiry had not been carried out. on 28 february 2006 the applicant was granted victim status. they denied any ill-treatment of the applicant. on the same day the investigation was suspended on the grounds that the perpetrator had not been identified. on 27 july 2006 the investigation was resumed and the applicant identified f. during an identification parade. on 24 august 2006 a face-to-face confrontation was carried out between the applicant and f. the applicant stated that f. had taken part in his ill‑treatment and had taken the confession from him. on 26 january 2007 a confrontation was held between the applicant and police officers a. and g., who again both denied using any violence towards the applicant. he explained that he had not previously identified a. because he had poor eyesight. the applicant stated that g. had not assaulted him, but had interviewed him and had been present during his ill-treatment. it referred to convention case‑law under article 3 concerning the state’s obligation to carry out an effective investigation, notably the case of mikheyev v. russia (no. noting that the respondent authorities and the sovetskiy district police, acting as a third party in the proceedings, had submitted no evidence capable of proving that the applicant could have received the injuries (see paragraph 11 above) in other circumstances, the district court established that they had been sustained during his detention at the police station. in his eyes, by forcing him to sign the confession the police officers had humiliated him.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kragujevac. on 13 july 2006 the applicant filed a civil suit together with 18 other persons with the kragujevac municipal court against his former employer telekom srbija ad beograd requesting the payment of funds from profit made in 2005. the applicant’s previous representative did not attend first preliminary hearing fixed for 15 november 2006, since he had been deleted from the register of the attorneys–at-law in may 2006. the applicant appointed the present representative on 25 january 2007. the preliminary hearing was held on 13 february 2007. on 27 august 2007 the proceedings were split to separate proceedings for each of the plaintiffs concerned. the preliminary hearing was held on 21 march 2008. within the period from 21 october 2008 until 29 april 2011 seven out of eight hearings were postponed for various reasons, mainly because the representatives on the both sides provided new submissions and evidence and on the proposal of both sides due to the cost-efficiency of the proceedings. on 29 april 2011 the kragujevac first instance court ruled against the applicant. on 20 february 2012 the kragujevac appeals court upheld that judgment. on 27 june 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in kostrena. the company primarily provides public utility services such as parking, waste disposal, funeral services, maintaining green spaces, cemeteries and so forth. in an article published in the daily novi list of 19 september 2007, mr m.u., who was the mayor of kostrena municipality and chairman of the company’s general meeting (skupština) at the time, criticised the way the applicant performed her job. our municipal utility company does not carry out the type of business for which it was established. the relevant part of that article reads as follows:“the mayor of kostrena, m.u., i first informed my [political] party but there was no reaction. ’s remark that the company has been stagnating under her leadership, she says that kostrena municipality, which does not have a development strategy, has itself been stagnating ... the main precondition for that ... would be, in her opinion, the resolution of property issues which remain outstanding in the case of most of the parking lots administered by kostrena’s municipal utility company. marunić illustrates this by referring to the viktor lenac parking lot where the municipal utility company has been charging for parking on land which was not even owned by kostrena municipality. kostrena needs professionals, but they are being removed, the proof of which is the proposal to remove t.s. the applicant argued, inter alia, as follows:“i contest entirely the argument that by making statements in the media i acted inappropriately and allegedly attacked the [business] reputation of the company ...the utility company is a public company which belongs to the [local] community ... it was my duty, as a member of the [company’s] management, to contact the media and inform the public because it is a public company and not someone’s private property. on 21 november 2007 she therefore brought a civil action for wrongful dismissal against the company in the rijeka municipal court (općinski sud u rijeci). she challenged the decision to dismiss her and sought reinstatement. by a judgment of 12 june 2008 the municipal court ruled in favour of the applicant. the court accepted that her statements in the media had been damaging to the company’s business reputation and as such had constituted a serious breach of employment-related duties within the meaning of section 107 of the labour act (see paragraph 23 below), making her summary dismissal justified. it accordingly ordered that she be reinstated and assigned to another job within the company. however, the county court also disagreed with the view of the municipal court that the applicant’s behaviour, namely her statements in the media, had constituted a serious breach of employment-related duties such as to justify summary dismissal. having regard to the given circumstances, it is precisely this which is a particularly important fact making the continuation of employment impossible ... in this particular case, the depiction by the employee of the employer’s business activities in an extremely negative light in the media is a particularly important fact of the kind which gives the employer a justified reason to terminate the employment contract. that argument is incorrect [having regard to her statements in] the article published in novi list of 27 september 2009 ...the constitutional court notes that the right ‘of a citizen’ to publicly express his or her personal opinions cannot justify a breach of employment-related rights and obligations stemming from an employment contract and the relevant legislation.” the final outcome of those proceedings is unknown.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in antalya. according to the incident report drawn up by the gendarmerie, the woman, identified as ç.v., upon arrival at the gendarmerie station, ç.v. was at once brought before the samsun public prosecutor, where she stated that she had been having an extra-marital affair with the applicant for a while, but wanted to break the relationship off because of his constant threats and pressure; that she had agreed to meet the applicant earlier that day to talk for one last time, but that after meeting in his car, the applicant had driven her out of the city without her consent, hit her in the stomach with a truncheon and beaten her, tied her hands with a rope, and threatened to assault her sexually. two years before to help her through her divorce, including financially. had become very demanding and aggressive, and had threatened to expose their relationship and spread lies about him numerous times. and claimed that it was she who had wanted to meet. which recorded a 0.5 cm cut on her tongue, a red ecchymosis of 3 cm x 2 cm on the right side of her neck, a red lesion on her upper right chest, and pain in her left thumb. claimed that she had submitted the written statement under duress and that her initial accusations had been truthful. maintained her allegations against the applicant, save for the attempted sexual assault. the applicant, on the other hand, continued to deny the accusations against him. pointed to her bleeding mouth and signalled a gun with her hand. upon his demand, the applicant retrieved the gun from the boot and handed it over to the commander. on account of the latter’s wish to break up with him and therefore assaulted ç.v. did not contest the absence of a conviction on the charge of attempted rape. it upheld the applicant’s acquittal for the remaining charges. basing itself largely on the evidence available in the criminal investigation file, on 15 february 2005 the supreme disciplinary council found it established that the applicant had committed the offences of attempted rape, assault and threatening violence with a weapon, and ordered his dismissal from the police force as requested. the administrative court opined that ç.v. ’s initial statements to the gendarmerie, along with her medical report and the articles confiscated from the applicant’s car on the date of the incident, some of which he had attempted to hide from the gendarmerie, constituted sufficient evidence to hold that the applicant had committed the acts of attempted rape, false imprisonment and threatening with a weapon held against him, although there were no witnesses to corroborate ç.v. on 6 march 2013 the applicant appealed against the decision of the samsun administrative court of 27 december 2012 before the supreme administrative court.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in waldegg, austria. on 28 september 1994 the applicant initiated civil proceedings requesting the division of a certain estate. on 5 january 2009 the ivanjica municipal court suspended the said proceedings until conclusion of another civil case. it would appear that the said civil proceedings are still pending. on 23 june 2011 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and ordered the speeding up of the impugned proceedings. the court, additionally, declared that the applicant was entitled to the non-pecuniary damages sought, in accordance with article 90 of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 13, article 90, below). it seems that, the applicant contacted the commission for compensation on 11 december 2011 and requested the payment of the compensation awarded, but apparently received no response.
the applicants found themselves staying in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport of moscow. the applicant is an iraqi national who was born in 1987. the applicant described the conditions of his stay in the transit zone as follows. he sustained himself on emergency rations provided by the russian office of unhcr. there were no showers in the transit area. on 10 november 2015 the moscow region fms dismissed the applicant’s refugee status application. the applicant’s lawyer was served with the decision of 29 december 2015 on 23 january 2016. on 1 february 2016 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decisions of 10 november and 29 december 2015 with the basmannyy district court of moscow. from 23 august 2015 the applicant stayed in the transit zone of sheremetyevo airport. the applicant’s lawyer appealed to the russian fms, arguing that the applicant did not have any possibility to return to his home in the gaza strip, that the moscow region fms had failed to assess his personal situation and the risk he would face if returned to palestine, and that the moscow region fms, in breach of the refugees act (fz-4528-1 of 19 february 1993), had not issued him with an examination certificate. the russian border guard service did not allow him to pass through passport control. on 1 july 2015 the moscow region fms interviewed the applicant. on 7 december 2015 the russian fms dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the decision of 1 october 2015. on the same date the applicant’s lawyer appealed. it appears that the applicant remained in russia despite that refusal. on 18 august 2015 the applicant took a flight from moscow to antalya, turkey. the turkish authorities denied the applicant entry to the country and sent him back to moscow on 20 august 2015. on 8 september 2015 the applicant took a flight to beirut, but the lebanese authorities denied him entry to the country and sent him back to moscow. given the absence of any refrigerator or kitchen, his rations were extremely limited. on 7 april 2016 the applicant once again tried to lodge an application for refugee status through the border guard service.
mr grigoryan and ms sergeyeva were born in 1981 and 1975 respectively and live in kyiv. according to the police, mr grigoryan, while leaning out of the car window, made obscene gestures and swore at them. the police asked him to get out of the car and show his identification, which he eventually did. indeed, in his submissions it is suggested that he was fully cooperative, got out of the car voluntarily and identified himself. on arrival at the police station the patrol officers handed over the applicants to police major a., the station’s duty officer. according to the government, immediately upon the applicants’ arrival at the police station, major a. drew up arrest and administrative offence reports in respect of both applicants. according to the applicants, the reports were given to them to sign only the next morning immediately prior to their release. according to ms sergeyeva, she was able to hear mr grigoryan being beaten from her cell and this caused her distress. the pre-printed forms state that the tying up procedure was used to stop unruly conduct (“буйство”) and prevent self‑harm by an intoxicated individual. according to the taxi driver, he accompanied the applicants to the police station and waited for them until about 2 a.m. at some point, apparently waiting outside the building, he heard the applicants’ voices inside, shouting and asking somebody not to hit them. on 8 april 2010 ms sergeyeva complained to the prosecutor’s office about what she described as unlawful arrest and beatings by the police. on 12 april 2010 mr grigoryan lodged a similar complaint. he stated in particular that on arrival at the police station he had immediately been put in a cell. he had started hitting the cell door, also wishing to receive an explanation. from 13-15 april 2010 the district prosecutor interviewed the applicants, the arresting officers, major a. and two other officers involved in the events at the police station. there had been no other arrestees at the police station that night. on 25 august 2010 the kyiv prosecutor’s office overruled the decision of 30 april 2010 on the grounds that the arresting officers had not been interviewed concerning the grounds for the arrest, the enquiry had not examined the allegation that ethnic prejudice had motivated the ill-treatment and, furthermore, no medical specialist had been interviewed to clarify the possible origins of the recorded injuries. on 17 march, 18 august and 12 december 2011 respectively the kyiv svyatoshynsky district court declared those decisions premature. on 30 july 2012 the district prosecutor again refused to institute proceedings. it would appear that this report contains the only coherent official account of the events of the night of 6 to 7 april 2010.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in ganja. the applicant had ownership rights to a shop at 32 attarlar street in ganja. m and it had been purchased by the applicant from the state for 1,309,000 old azerbaijani manats (azm) (equivalent to 261.8 new azerbaijani manats (azn) or approximately 230 euros). the shop had concrete foundations, the external and internal walls were made of metal and wood, while the roof was made of metal and covered with slate tiles. the property was classified as a non‑residential building used for wholesale or retail trade purposes. the applicant paid land tax for 2004 of azm 19,400 for the plot underneath the shop. according to the applicant, in november 2004 gcea officials asked him verbally to vacate the shop in connection with the above decision. the applicant refused and brought a legal action asking the court to order the gcea to stop its allegedly unlawful activities. in its submissions to the court, the gcea as the respondent stated that a number of “old shops and other retail facilities” on attarlar and nizami streets had been removed owing to the urgent need to widen the streets in order to accommodate the number of pedestrians and cars. the applicant had not owned the original plot of land. following the respondent’s submissions concerning the alleged excessiveness of the compensation claim, by an interim decision of 15 july 2005 the khojavand district court requested a new valuation by a state expert. on an unspecified date the state expert refused to issue an opinion, noting that the shop at 32 attarlar street no longer existed and that therefore it was technically impossible to examine it and assess its market value. accordingly, the interim decision of 15 july 2005 remained unexecuted. being a metal construction it had been possible to move it in one piece. it had not been destroyed but simply transported to another location. the court also accepted that the applicant had been offered a new plot of land by the gcea but had refused it. it further decided to reject the applicant’s compensation claim based on aysel-m’s report, without providing any reasons. the applicant appealed, reiterating that his shop had been unlawfully destroyed and asking for compensation. the appellate judgment contained no references to applicable domestic legal provisions. no information is available in the case file as to whether a new land plot was allocated to the applicant or as to its location or any other details.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in makhachkala, republic of dagestan, russia. several hundred people took part, alleging corruption by local public officials. five other people were seriously wounded; a large number of people sustained injuries and were arrested. the forensic expert was given the following two objects for examination: a grenade with a special charge; and an obturator with a special charge (a 23 mm cartridge used with a carbine type ks-23 (ks-23m)). on 19 october 2006 the authorities took the decision to open another criminal case concerning the charge of abuse of power by a public official causing death (article 286 of the criminal code). it appears from the decision that it concerned persons other than the applicant’s son. the above-mentioned cases were subsequently joined. on 26 february 2007 the expert from the institute issued a report stating that it was not practicable to determine which of the examined carbines had been used to shoot the cartridge. on 26 february 2007 the investigating authority suspended the investigation. on 30 august 2007 the applicant’s other son, mr rafik nagmetov, brought court proceedings challenging the alleged inaction of the investigating authority. the necessary (medical, ballistics, criminological) examinations were carried out ... all carbines which had been used by the officers were seized ... all relevant officers were identified ... the logbooks concerning distribution of weapons and ammunition were examined ... on three occasions three different expert institutions were asked to submit ballistics reports. in a judgment of 6 october 2008 the district court granted the complaint, considering that by failing to submit appropriate comparative material to the forensic expert, the investigating authority failed to take “exhaustive measures aimed at identifying the perpetrator”. on an unspecified date, the applicant became aware that the evidence extracted from the body of his son had been lost. the decision reads as follows:“having examined the file, i conclude that the investigation did not exhaust the measures aimed at establishing the circumstances of the crime, at collecting the evidence and identifying the rifle used to cause the victim’s death ... in particular, the request for a ballistics report to the institute was submitted with volna cartridges instead of the type of cartridges used for causing the victim’s death. with regard to just satisfaction claims, i would draw your attention to rule 60 and would remind you that failure to submit within the time allowed quantified claims, together with the required supporting documents, entails the consequence that the chamber will either make no award of just satisfaction or else reject the claim in part. these costs must be itemised, and it must be established that they are reasonable and have been actually and necessarily incurred. however, none were submitted by that date. ...rule 75 – ruling on just satisfaction 1. submitting claims for just satisfaction: formal requirements 5. applicants who consider themselves victims of more than one violation may claim either a single lump sum covering all alleged violations or a separate sum in respect of each alleged violation.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in yerevan. on 3 may 2005 the district court delivered a judgment upholding the settlement. it also stated that bailiffs would enforce the judgment if it was not complied with. no appeal was lodged and the judgment became final. according to the applicant, the bailiff found no funds or property belonging to k. during the enforcement procedure. by a letter of 7 june 2007 the bailiff informed the applicant that he had found out during the enforcement proceedings that k. had inherited a house but had not registered her ownership of it. the bailiff advised the applicant to institute proceedings against k. in order to have her ownership of the house recognised. it appears that later in 2007 the applicant brought a claim in the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court to have k.’s ownership of the house recognised. there was no appeal and the judgment became final. on 22 november 2007 the bailiff requested that the state committee of the real estate registry recognise k.’s ownership of the house, register it and issue a copy of the ownership certificate. it also mentioned that k. was unlawfully occupying a plot of land whose status was unclear. he also stated that the issue of registration-related payments would be decided upon initiation of the registration process and that receipts would be submitted. in 2008 the applicant brought a claim in the administrative court against the real estate registry and the bailiff, seeking to oblige them respectively to register k.’s ownership of the house and to confiscate it from her. on 1 december 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim by ordering the real estate registry to register k.’s rights to the house and the bailiff to confiscate it from her. in particular, the administrative court found that both the refusal of the real estate registry to register k.’s ownership rights and the non-enforcement by the bailiff of the judgment of 3 may 2005 owing to a lack of funds on the part of k. had been groundless as k.’s ownership of the house had been recognised by the final court judgment of 24 october 2007. it appears that no appeal was lodged against the administrative court’s judgment and it became final. according to the applicant, none of the three court judgments was enforced. on 18 february 2010 the applicant sought the payment of interest by k. via a claim in the district court. the judgment became final on 1 april 2011. on 10 february 2012 k. submitted a receipt for the payment of the debt to the bailiff and he terminated the enforcement proceedings on 13 february 2012.
the applicants were born in 1938, 1940 and 1961 respectively. the first two applicants live in dolni dabnik and the third applicant lives in sofia. the first two applicants are the third applicant’s parents. in 1990 the three applicants bought from the state a flat in sofia measuring 144 square metres, which had become property of the state by virtue of the nationalisations carried out by the communist regime after 1945. in 1992 the heir of the pre-nationalisation owner of the flat brought an action against the applicants under section 7 of the restitution law, seeking to establish that their title was null and void. she also brought a rei vindicatio claim against them. the proceedings ended with a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation on 22 june 2004. the domestic courts dealing with the proceedings allowed both actions against the applicants. in relation to the action under section 7 of the restitution law, the courts found the applicants’ title null and void, since they had bought their flat in breach of the law: the area where the flat was located had been earmarked for the construction of buildings of more than three storeys, and the applicants’ building was of two storeys; and the legislation at the time prohibited the sale of flats in such buildings. it appears that on an unspecified date after that the applicants applied for compensation bonds; however, the parties have not informed the court of the outcome of the procedure. in 2005 the applicants brought a tort action against the sofia municipality (which was the legal successor of the state with regard to residential property). on 20 january 2010 the sofia city court allowed their claim. that judgment was quashed on 4 november 2010 by the sofia court of appeal, which dismissed the claim in its entirety. in a final judgment of 4 april 2012 the supreme court of cassation, finding that the applicants were only entitled to receive the price they had paid for the flat in 1990, which had devalued enormously over the years, awarded them the equivalent of about 12 euros (eur).
the applicants were placed in pre-trial detention at thessaloniki general police headquarters on monasteriou st in thessaloniki. they were detained for periods ranging from one to eight months. the seventeenth applicant was detained at thessaloniki general police headquarters from 25 april 2012 to 14 august 2012, except for 11 june 2012 to 1 august 2012, when he was detained at the thessaloniki aliens division. detainees had been confined to their cells owing to the lack of an exercise yard. recreational activities had not been offered and cells had not been equipped with televisions. detainees had had to ask permission from the guards to use the restroom, which had been situated outside the cells and had been shared by seventy people. there had not been sufficient separation between detainees who were drug users or smokers and other detainees. detainees had not been allowed to bring their own sheets and towels, but had been obliged to use dirty ones provided by the prison authorities. as regards nutrition, meals had been of an insufficient quality and quantity and had never included meat. detainees had not been provided with water but had had to buy it themselves. on 30 august 2012 the applicants and other detainees had lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor about the conditions of their detention at thessaloniki police headquarters but had not received a reply. fifteen cells with capacity for fifty-five inmates had accommodated male detainees, one cell for six people had accommodated females while three cells with capacity for twelve people had been set aside for minors. most of the cells had windows, which had been partially covered by walls and rails but which had still admitted natural light and fresh air. the sanitary facilities had been no different from the ones used by the police headquarters staff and had been cleaned by a cleaning company every day, along with the rest of the premises. additionally, they were allowed visits from their lawyers at any time and from friends and family four times per week. the cells had been sufficiently well-lit and ventilated and had been regularly cleaned. meals had been provided by a catering company. the fourteenth and eighteenth applicants had been detained in a cell of 26 square metres accommodating five detainees. the cells had been sufficiently well-lit and ventilated and a cleaning company had maintained the cleanliness of the premises. the government further contended that the applicants’ allegations of a lack of separation between drug users and other detainees should be rejected as the applicants had not alleged that they themselves had been detained in the same cells as drug users.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in antratsit, ukraine. in 1996 the applicant was dismissed from the state enterprise coal mine “yur-shor” («государственное предприятие «шахта «юр‑шор», “the coal mine”). according to the government, the mine was incorporated as a state unitary enterprise. in january 1999 the insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the mine. it appears that the award became final ten days later. the applicant submits, without further details, that the bailiffs did not take measures to execute the judgment. he informed the applicant that the judgment in his favour could not be enforced, since no funds had been allocated from the federal budget for these purposes. on 3 april 2001 the town court ordered the coal mine to pay the applicant eur 51 for court expenses. on 24 april 2002 the town court allowed the applicant’s claim for index-linking of the award of 28 october 1999 and held that the coal mine should pay him eur 912 under this head. the applicant sued various domestic authorities for non-pecuniary damages and index-linking of unpaid salary. the court further found that awards made on 28 october 1999, 3 april 2001 and 24 april 2002 in the amount of eur 1,966 should be paid to the applicant by the ministry of energy, since the latter had been designated by the government to finance the debts of the coal mine, in so far as the salary arrears and related social payments prior to the decision to wind up the company were concerned. the judgment became final on 23 september 2004, as upheld by the supreme court of the komi republic. the decision acquired legal force on 23 september 2004. on 7 december 2004 the town court ordered to index-link the awards of 21 january 2004 and held that the ministry of energy should pay the applicant eur 155 and the coal mine eur 41 respectively. the judgment entered into force on 20 december 2004. it appears that the judgments of 21 january 2004 and 7 december 2004 and the decision of 21 january 2004 have not been enforced to date. on 30 november 2005 his application was rejected by the town court as having no grounds in the domestic law. it appears that the decision was not appealed against. the applicant further claimed that the respondent ministry be replaced by “sotsugol”. on 8 june 2006 the supreme court of the komi republic in the final instance rejected his request.
the application concerns the murder on 15 january 2005 of elmas, zerrin and eylül güzelyurtlu, all cypriot nationals of turkish cypriot origin. the other two suspects were linked to the murder through other evidence. the relevant case file had been classified as “otherwise disposed of” (άλλως διατεθείσα) in 2004. as can be seen from an email dated 7 march 2005 from the director of the diplomatic office of the president of the republic to the chief european union negotiator for cyprus, the cypriot authorities around this time forwarded to unficyp an interim report by the laboratory of forensic genetics of the cyprus institute of neurology and genetics in order to facilitate its mediation of the handing over of the suspects in the instant case. 9/05, 10/05 11/05) before the larnaca district court. by a letter dated 24 november 2008 the director general of the cypriot ministry of justice informed the attorney-general of the return of all the above-mentioned documents and stated that it was clear that turkey was refusing to receive requests for the extradition of fugitives made by cyprus under the european convention of extradition, due to turkey’s refusal to recognise the republic of cyprus as a state. by a letter dated 27 january 2005 “trnc” nicosia police headquarters provided the turkish ministry of internal affairs with information about the suspects’ identities. it also issued a search warrant for the house of the eighth suspect. an additional statement was taken on 11 february 2005 from the fifth suspect. he denied any involvement in the murders. in march 2007 the cypriot police informed the first applicant that the car and the material removed from the victims’ home and office could be returned. on 15 july 2007 there was an attempt to kill the first applicant at his home in the “trnc”. during that month the applicants were also informed by the cypriot police that the arrest warrant in respect of one of the suspects had been cancelled. the spa stated that she had had, on the same day, a long meeting concerning the murders with the “trnc” chief of police in the presence of other officers and the “trnc” attorney-general. one of the suspects was in turkey but appeared not to be connected to the murders. (g)  note by the cypriot police to the chief of police dated 18 may 2006 133. this note stated that as concerned a meeting held on 17 may 2006 between the spa, the dspa, and members of the cypriot police and investigation team, the dspa had raised his concerns as to an increased level of collaboration between greek cypriot and turkish cypriot criminals and their movements across the island. this is a humanitarian issue and totally out of political concerns. (f)  from the minutes of a meeting on 18 february 2005 144. on 5 april 2005 unficyp officials had a general meeting with the “trnc” head of consular affairs who mentioned that the dna results given to them were not sufficient in order to proceed further with the case file.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in split. he is the owner of a flat in split with a surface area of 106.90 square metres. according to the applicant, that flat is the only real estate in his ownership and his only property of value. it would appear that in 1971 the housing authorities awarded a specially protected tenancy (stanarsko pravo) of the flat to a certain ms n.r. on 5 november 1996 the lease of flats act entered into force. therefore, on 16 october 1997 she brought a civil action against him in the split municipal court (općinski sud u splitu) with a view to obtaining a judgment in lieu of such a contract. at the hearing held on 4 november 1998 the applicant argued that n.r. was not entitled to protected rent because she owned a house in the tourist village of rogoznica, some 53 kilometres from split. and her family to vacate the flat in question. he argued that he intended to move into the flat. on 21 october 2008 the split county court (županijski sud u splitu) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance judgment. the municipal and the county court established that n.r. was living in the flat with her son m.r., her daughter-in-law and her grandson whereas the applicant was living with his mother in a flat located in the same building. his mother also owned an adjacent building where he was running his medical practice in one of the flats. indeed owned a small summer home in rogoznica surfacing 18 square metres only. 12027/10, §§ 48-49, 10 july 2014), had not been met and that the applicant was therefore not entitled to refuse to enter into a lease contract with n.r. ’s summer home in rogoznica located in the same municipality or township. was also entitled to protected rent; the applicant thus having no right to charge her the market rent for living in his flat. ’s summer home did not constitute a habitable house within the meaning of section 31(2) of the lease of flats act (see statileo, cited above, § 41).
the applicants were born in 1946, 1966 and 1973, respectively, and live in sisak. on 17 october 1991 the body of stevo borojević, the applicants’ respective husband and father, was found on the right bank of the river kupa in sisak. however, after he left she had not seen him again. in 1996 the united nations security council established the united nations transitional administration in eastern slavonia, baranja and western sirmium (the “untaes”). on 15 january 1998 the untaes mandate ceased and the transfer of power to the croatian authorities began. they had subsequently learned that an individual named g. had also been implicated. had also told them that he had asked đ.b. a list of persons to be followed and a list of persons to be liquidated, and that stevo borojević had been on neither of those lists. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices for implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality of the persons involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators, and the problem of trials in absentia. on 11 december 2008 an investigating judge at the sisak county court heard evidence from jasenka borojević and edita mihić, who repeated what they had said to the police. a relative of stevo borojević, on 30 december 2008 but he had no knowledge of the latter’s disappearance and killing. and on 8 january 2009 they questioned t.p. had shown them the flats where serbs lived. who had died in the meantime, had told him that he had learned that stevo borojević had been taken to žabno by the men who controlled the roads. on 20 june 2011 the sisak county police lodged a criminal complaint against đ.b., on charges of war crimes against the civilian population. head of the sisak police department in 1991 and 1992, v.m., on an unspecified date the investigation was opened. and increased his sentence to ten years’ imprisonment. following the criminal conviction of v.m.,
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in st petersburg. according to the applicant’s medical history he has suffered from various mental conditions since 1979 and has been admitted to hospital and treated in various psychiatric facilities several times. the applicant’s records contain information on alcohol abuse, suicide attempts, threats of violence against neighbours and medical professionals, and about a number of organic, psychiatric and personality disorders, including psychosis and paranoia. on each occasion there was no apparent reason for the call. the applicant behaved aggressively towards medical personnel, made sexual advances to female doctors and consumed alcohol in their presence. according to a police report of 2 april 2007 the applicant contacted the police three times in two days alleging that nomadic tribes had attacked him, that he had found an unexploded second world war shell, and that explosives had been placed at an industrial facility. the applicant’s alerts were acted upon and found to be groundless. the applicant refused to be treated or admitted to hospital voluntarily. in the course of clinical development the organic defects have become predominant manifesting themselves through circumstantiality, a coarsening of emotions, and the exacerbation of his querulous tendencies. the current admission is due to inappropriate behaviour: informed the police that explosives had been planted somewhere, conflicts with [nomadic tribes], called for emergency medical services and when they arrived threatened the personnel, behaved improperly towards women. on 9 april 2007 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg (приморский районный суд г. during the hearing the district court examined the applicant’s medical history and heard the testimony of the psychiatrists, who referred to severe alcohol abuse, erratic behaviour, frivolous calls to the police, and threatening conduct towards medical personnel. did not consent to his admission to hospital since he refused treatment. on 3 april 2007 he was examined by a panel of psychiatrists, who established that [he is] aware of his surroundings, answers questions in detail, believes that he is being persecuted by the police because he is ‘a person of the stalinist era, and they do not want to work’, shows an uncritical attitude towards [his] behaviour, does not correct his ideas of his own relevance and persecution, denies perceptual illusions. having considered the evidence in the case, having heard the opinion of the doctors, of the lawyer, mrs l., who considered inpatient treatment to be reasonable, and the opinion of the prosecutor ... the court concludes that the application of the hospital’s chief physician is well-founded because mr v.k. on 20 april 2007 the applicant was formally discharged from hospital after an improvement in his mental health. on the same day the applicant left hospital. ’s condition and confirms the existence of a severe psychiatric disorder indicating a risk of significant damage to [his] health due to a deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. the arguments in the statement of appeal that legal aid lawyer mrs l. did not duly discharge her professional functions may not serve as a ground for annulment of the order, which is lawful on the merits ... ” 18. nothing in the materials available to the court suggests that the applicant had ever been restricted in his legal capacity or appointed a legal guardian.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in nairobi, kenya. 132/05) but it was dismissed on 4 july 2005. on 3 may 2006 the applicant brought a “recourse” (judicial review proceedings) before the supreme court (in its first-instance revisional jurisdiction) challenging the reviewing authority’s decision (recourse no. he stated that the captain and crew had witnessed everything. following his deportation, on 27 december 2007, the applicant, while in kenya, lodged a complaint with the ombudsman concerning his deportation and the ill-treatment he had received during the deportation process at nicosia central prisons, larnaca airport and on the aircraft to milan. according to the above report and statements, when the immigration officers went to take the applicant from his cell, they showed him his travel document, as was the usual practice. the applicant started shouting and asked to call his lawyer, which the officers allowed him to do before leaving the detention facilities. on 9 july 2008 the president of the iaiacap concluded that the seriousness of the applicant’s allegations meant that his complaint ought to be investigated, irrespective of the police officers’ statements that they had not ill-treated him. no mention was made of the incident in the cabin crew report. it appears from the document that the applicant had written to the hospital on 21 december 2009 to request such a certificate. he was referred for a dental examination and told to rest for four days. on 16 june 2010 all serving members of the irs who had been on duty on 9 march 2007 from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. (the date and approximate time of the alleged ill-treatment) were ordered to attend an identity parade the following day. the officers had asked him to calm down but to no avail. for that reason, with the help of members of the irs who had restrained the applicant, they had wrapped the applicant’s head in bandages to protect him from possible self-harm. on 22 july 2010 the investigator prepared a report on the investigation procedure and his findings. the report stated that the various police records (records of action and log or duty books) were deficient and had failed to keep track of ongoing events (such as the applicant’s being moved from block 10 to another area on the night of his deportation and the officers’ actions during the deportation). he observed that that had clearly aimed at hiding the truth (προφανώς για σκοπούς συσκότισης). in his statement to the iaiacap on 22 september 2009, the officer in charge of the archives at nicosia police headquarters informed the investigator that on 28 april 1999, the minister of justice had declared block 10 at nicosia central prisons a police detention establishment. - access to drinking water: there is a water cooler in the common area which is considered sufficient. - open area for exercise: there is an open area and it is considered sufficient- chair and table in each cell: tables and chairs have been placed inside the cells.
at the material time the applicant union, founded in 1955 with its registered office in istanbul, represented workers in the food-processing sector. 2821; ...), the applicant union applied to the ministry of labour and social security (“the ministry”) for certification of its representative status (yetki belgesi) so that it could enter into collective labour agreements with tukaş on behalf of its members. in a decision of 26 may 2004 the ministry granted the application and confirmed the applicant union’s representative status. on the basis of a report drawn up by labour inspectors on the nature of tukaş’s activities and its labour force, the ministry found that, in view of the number of employees belonging to the applicant union and the total number of staff at the three factories, which operated in the food-processing sector, the conditions laid down in the trade union act (law no. 2821) for engaging in collective bargaining were satisfied. on 17 september 2004 the 3rd labour court appointed an expert to determine whether the applicant union’s membership attained the minimum level laid down in the trade union act (law no. on 13 november 2004 the expert submitted his report to the court. 2821), employees at the tukaş head office belonged to a different occupational sector, namely the “business, computing, education and arts” sector, and consequently could not form part of its membership. that being so, it contended that the expert report should not have included staff at the head office in its calculations. the ministry asked the labour court to reject the application by tukaş, arguing that its decision of 26 may 2004 authorising the applicant union to represent employees in collective bargaining with the company had been lawful. in a judgment of 2 december 2004 the i̇zmir 3rd labour court found in favour of the company and withdrew the applicant union’s representative status. it based its decision on the arguments set out in the first approach referred to in the expert report of 13 november 2004. on 21 december 2004 the applicant union appealed on points of law and reiterated the observations it had made before the labour court. in a judgment of 22 march 2005 the court of cassation dismissed the applicant union’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. the judgment was finalised on 15 april 2005. meanwhile, at the start of 2004 tukaş had invited employees who were members of the applicant union to cancel their membership on pain of dismissal. some had complied but forty employees had refused. they observed that tukaş had failed to persuade them that there had been any economic or performance-related reasons to justify the dismissals, which had therefore been wrongful. in judgments delivered between december 2004 and june 2005 the court of cassation upheld the judgments of the i̇zmir labour courts. tukaş did not reinstate any of the employees it had dismissed and paid them compensation as ordered by the labour courts.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in belgrade. on 27 june 2001 the obrenovac municipal court ordered a socially-owned company, holding - prva iskra ad barič (hereinafter “the debtor”), to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of compensation for expropriated real estate plus the costs of the civil proceedings. on 18 march 2003, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the obrenovac municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. on 23 april 2003 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the applicant’s debtor. as a consequence, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor would appear to have been stayed. on 29 february 2016 the belgrade commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. the applicant duly reported her claims based on the above-mentioned judgment to the insolvency administration. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing and the said court judgment remains unenforced to the present day. according to publically available information the debtor is still, predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital (see http://pretraga2.apr.‌gov.rs/objedinjenepretrage/search/search, accessed on 7 february 2017). on 7 october 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court. in terms of redress, relying on the constitutional court act 2007, the applicant sought, inter alia, compensation for the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the impugned non-enforcement. on 15 may 2012 the applicant noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified her compensation claims accordingly. specifically, on account of the pecuniary damage, the applicant requested the respective amounts awarded to her by the final judgment in question, whilst as regards the non‑pecuniary damage sustained she claimed 1,000,000 serbian dinars (approximately 9,500 euros (eur)). on 21 may 2014 the constitutional court found, in the operative part of its ruling (u izreci), that the applicant had indeed suffered a violation of her right to a fair trial within a reasonable time, as well as a violation of her property rights and awarded her eur 1,000 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage in question. however, it rejected the compensation claim regarding the pecuniary damages sought by the applicant. the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings. in its reasoning, the constitutional court stated in respect of the compensation issue that the applicant’s pecuniary damage claim had been lodged out of time. in so doing, it merely referred to article 85 § 3 of the constitutional court act, as amended in 2011, requiring that such claims be brought simultaneously with the lodging of a constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1949 and is currently serving a prison sentence in lepoglava. on 16 june 2007, on the basis of an application by the state attorney’s office, the investigating judge ordered the termination of the special investigative measures, indicating that their use had produced the results sought. the state attorney’s office also alleged that the applicant had organised the bribery of the president of the fund in respect of the investment in the zadar region, and had agreed to further bribe-taking with j.k. in particular, the state attorney’s office indicated the particular sequence of the relevant recordings which it intended to submit as evidence at the trial. on 30 april 2008 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court returned the indictment to the state attorney’s office on the grounds that one count of the indictment, concerning the applicant’s alleged participation in the bribery of the president of the fund, had been confusing. produced further transcripts of the secret surveillance recordings related to the zagreb county court’s order of 2 december 2008 (see paragraph 39 above). he explained that the relevant contacts with the applicant had been arranged and directed by j.k., on 12 december 2008 the defence counsel sent a letter to the zagreb county court asking for access to and the possibility to examine the secret surveillance recordings. concerning several further secret surveillance recordings. the expert produced his additional report on 2 january 2009. further hearings were held on 17, 23-26 and 30 march 2009 at which the trial bench heard evidence from several witnesses. further hearings were held between 8 and 12 may 2009 at which the trial bench heard the parties’ closing arguments. this panel also considers that the recordings at issue were made solely for their examination at the trial and had they been provided to the parties, the court would not have had any legal basis at its disposal to prevent and prohibit the parties from reproducing [them] outside of the court[-house] before their examination at trial, and [the court would not have had any legal means] to prevent possible misuse of the recorded material. moreover, article 35 of the constitution guarantees respect for the private life of every individual, and the court is obliged to act under the constitution ..., so if it provided the defence with the recordings concerning other individuals ... that would amount to breach of the above-cited provision of the constitution ...” 67. as to the applicant’s plea of entrapment, the zagreb county court noted:“... this panel finds that [the evidence obtained by the use of informants] is not unlawful evidence because it was obtained on the basis of an investigating judge’s orders. after that, if the decision goes through something ... is to be given to me, that is, for him... let’s say one hundred thousand euros more or less when the whole thing goes through. and this court considers that their complaints are ill-founded. testified that they had become informants after certain accused asked them for bribes [for carrying out the investment]. [ after that the activity of gathering evidence commenced. who had acted as an agent provocateur in his case.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in birkerod, denmark. on 11 april 1995 the applicant formed a limited company, n.r. the company”) together with a turkish partner, n.k., to provide tourist services in alanya, turkey. on 19 march 1997 the applicant applied to the alanya civil court of first instance to cancel n.k. on 2 october 1997 the court ordered the cancellation and on 18 may 1998 it appointed a trustee for the company. meanwhile, it was discovered that the applicant’s partner n.k. had fraudulently transferred the company’s assets to a new company. on 8 july 1997, the applicant brought two civil cases against n.k. before the alanya civil court of first instance and sought compensation for his loss incurred due to the fraudulent acts of n.k. the court decided to join the compensation cases and to examine them together. on 7 june 2005 the alanya civil court of first instance accepted the applicant’s compensation claim and granted him the equivalent of 203,000 deutschmarks (dem) (103,792 euros (eur) at the time) with statutory interest for his loss, to be paid in euros, and dem 10,000 (eur 7,158 at the time) in compensation without interest of 40% (inkar tazminatı), to be paid in turkish lira (try). the court further ruled that the legal costs and expenses of the proceedings were to be borne by n.k. on an unspecified day the applicant requested that the judgment be served on him in order to commence enforcement proceedings. the court rejected the request, stating that it was not possible to provide the judgment unless the charge required by section 28(1) (a) of law no. the applicant was therefore unable to lodge enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed.
the applicants were born in 1953 and 1951 respectively and live in čačak. on 21 march 2008 the čačak municipal court ordered a socially-owned company, fabrika reznog alata čačak ad and its subsidiaries (hereinafter “the debtor”) to pay the applicants specified amounts on account of salary arrears plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 2 july 2008. on 4 august 2008, upon the applicants’ request to that effect, the čačak municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the enforcement costs. on 30 march 2010 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor. subsequently, the enforcement proceedings against the debtor were stayed. on 29 july 2010 the applicants lodged an appeal with the constitutional court. in terms of redress, relying on the constitutional court act 2007, the applicants sought, inter alia, compensation for the damage suffered due to the impugned non-enforcement. on 19 and 20 march 2013 the applicants noted the adoption of the amendments to the constitutional court act, and specified their compensation claims accordingly. specifically, on account of the pecuniary damage, the applicants requested the respective amounts awarded to them by the final judgment in question, whilst as regards the non‑pecuniary damage sustained they claimed 2,000 euros (eur) each. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicants’ right to a hearing within a reasonable time and of their right to the peaceful enjoyment of their possessions. it further awarded the applicants eur 1,000 and eur 1,100 respectively as just satisfaction for non-pecuniary damage. however, it rejected their compensation claim regarding the pecuniary damage sought by the applicants. the constitutional court, lastly, ordered the speeding up of the impugned enforcement proceedings. in its reasoning, the constitutional court stated that the applicants’ pecuniary damage claim had been lodged out of time. in so doing, it merely referred to article 85 § 3 of the constitutional court act, as amended in 2011, requiring that such claims be brought simultaneously with the lodging of a constitutional appeal. on 10 june 2016 the government submitted that the national bank of serbia informed the čačak first instance court, by its letter of 19 april 2016, that the final court judgment of 21 march 2008 had been partially enforced on 14 august 2008 and that the applicants had received the sum of 143.707,89 serbian dinars (rsd). the remainder of the judgment remained unenforced. on 9 september 2016 the applicants’ representative submitted that the first applicant and she were not aware of the partial enforcement of the above judgment. moreover, she stated that they had never received a letter from the national bank of serbia related to enforcement issue.
the applicant, ms ljiljana milisavljević, is a serbian national who was born in 1966 and lives in belgrade. the applicant was a journalist employed at politika, a major serbian daily newspaper. nataša kandić provokes stormy reactions wherever she appears. most of all they blame her for never pursuing the crimes against serbs but exclusively dealing with those committed by serbs against other ethnicities. although later, she adds, she heard him defending her concern for the weak. nataša kandić was born in 1946 in topola, to her father radoslav and mother vera. in the 1970s she started working in the belgrade municipality of palilula. afterwards she worked in the city trade union. a year later, on the invitation of ms jeri laber, the helsinki watch executive director, she left for new york. upon discussion with top people at the hague tribunal[8], the humanitarian law centre took charge of its work in respect of the so‑called serbian crimes against muslims in bosnia and herzegovina, as well as violations and abuses of muslim and croatian minority rights in the fry. that is how this organisation became the [icty] ‘investigator’. during the nato campaign[9] she frequently travelled the belgrade-kosovo and metohija-montenegro routes. on 10 november 2003 ms kandić started a private prosecution against the applicant. she explicitly refused to lodge any civil compensation claim within these proceedings. the applicant, in her defence, stated that she was not expressing her own opinion of ms kandić, whom she did not intend to insult, and that she had written the entire article on the basis of the documentation of other magazines. she put the citations within quotation marks, but she omitted them when she was not literally citing but paraphrasing (“ono što nije stavila pod navodnike predstavljaju navode koji nisu citati, već ih je prepričavala iz drugih listova”). on 1 september 2005, after a remittal, the first municipal court (prvi opštinski sud) in belgrade found that the applicant had committed a criminal offence of insult when having stated for ms kandić “although she has been called a witch and a prostitute” and gave her a judicial warning. however, the applicant did not put it in quotation marks which meant that she agreed with it, thus expressing her opinion. on an unspecified date thereafter the applicant appealed. the applicant did not appeal against that decision.
the applicant was a member of a hunting association, v., based in čaglin (hereafter “the association”). on 17 june 2012 the association’s executive board initiated internal proceedings against the applicant before its disciplinary commission. the executive board argued that by doing so the applicant had committed a serious breach of his duties as a member, a disciplinary offence stipulated in the association’s internal regulations. by a decision of 25 august 2012 the disciplinary commission dismissed the disciplinary action against the applicant. no appeals were lodged against that decision. the executive board nevertheless referred the matter to the general meeting for re-examination, convening an extraordinary session. on 2 september 2012 the general meeting adopted, by twenty votes to seven, a resolution expelling the applicant from the association. he was informed that he could appeal against that decision and that any appeal would be examined at the general meeting’s (regular) annual session. the applicant appealed, but the general meeting’s resolution was upheld by twenty-one votes to three following the adoption of another resolution at the annual session held on 20 february 2013. the general meeting did not give any reasons for expelling the applicant in either of its resolutions. on 11 january 2014 the applicant brought a civil action against the hunting association in the požega county court (županijski sud u požegi), whereby he asked the court to declare unlawful the general meeting’s resolution of 20 february 2013 and to reinstate him as a member. the relevant part of that decision reads as follows:“section 26(1) of the associations act suggests that legal protection by way of civil action in the county court could be sought only if the general meeting or the other relevant body of the association had failed to examine a member’s report regarding irregularities in the implementation of the statute [of the association], or had failed to correct such irregularities. under section 50 of the defendant association’s statute [statut] the disciplinary tribunal imposes disciplinary measures against members who have breached their duties stipulated in the statute. the time-limit for the general meeting to adopt a resolution on the request is not stipulated. the general meeting’s resolution is final. ... since the plaintiff in his action does not seek [legal] protection envisaged in section 26(1) of the associations act, but asks [the court] to declare unlawful the defendant’s resolution to expel him, on which [issue] it is for the general meeting to make a final decision ... this case does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts ...” 15. in this connection it should be taken into account that the case concerns membership of a ... voluntary organisation [where] members may under the internal rules regulate the protection of [their] membership rights. therefore, the decision to expel a member does not fall within the jurisdiction of the courts under section 26(1) of the associations act. that is also the opinion of the constitutional court, as expressed in the case u-iii-140/2006. it found that the case did not raise any constitutional issues.
the applicant, who was born in 1989, was detained at the tekirdağ prison when the application was lodged. on 9 july 2010 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 13 july 2010 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention having regard to the nature of the offence, the state of the evidence and the strong suspicion of the suspect’s having committed the offence in issue. on 7 september 2010 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of an illegal terrorist organisation. the trial commenced before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court and the first hearing was held on 15 february 2011. in the hearings held on 21 february 2012 and 3 may 2012, respectively, the applicant appeared before the court, and the judges ordered his continued detention. the applicant filed objections against these decisions. on 7 march 2012 and 8 june 2012 respectively, the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed the applicant’s objections without holding an oral hearing and based on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. during the eleventh hearing held on 30 july 2013, the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention on remand.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. on 12 january, 26 january, 10 march and 29 december 2013 demonstrations were planned to be held in baku. information about the demonstrations was disseminated through facebook or the press. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the demonstrations of 12 january and 10 march 2013 were aimed at protesting about the deaths of soldiers in the army. all the applicants were arrested during the dispersal operations and were taken to various police stations. the applicants were questioned at the police stations they were taken to. they were not given access to a lawyer after their arrest or while they were in police custody. 20589/13 and 33164/13 at the police stations on the day of their arrest (12 january and 10 march 2013 respectively), they refused the services of a lawyer. 20589/13 and 26424/14 were released after being kept in police custody for a few hours, subject to an undertaking to reappear at the police station on various dates. most of the applicants were taken to trial courts directly from the police stations, either on the day of their arrest or the following day. 20589/13 and 26424/14 were brought before first-instance courts on the day they returned to the police station. state-funded lawyers were asked to assist some of them. 21219/13, 33164/13, 33593/13 and 26994/14 were not represented by a lawyer. 21219/13, 33164/13 and 26994/14 refused the assistance of a state-funded lawyer and decided to defend themselves in person. 20589/13, the state-funded lawyer stated briefly in his oral submissions that the applicant was guilty and asked the court for lenience. the only witnesses questioned during the court hearings with respect to the applicants in applications nos. the police officers testified that the applicants had staged unauthorised demonstrations. they asked the baku court of appeal to quash the first-instance courts’ decisions in their cases. the other applicants were not represented by a lawyer.
the first and second applicants were born in 1981 and 2002 respectively, and live in sofia. was dismissed from the police on 17 january 2007 as a result of that conduct. the court rejected her application in a final decision of 15 june 2010. the decision was upheld on appeal by the pazardzhik regional court on 8 october 2009 in a final judgment. on 1 july 2010, during judicial proceedings on custody, the sofia district court determined interim measures, giving custody to the third applicant. in two reports issued on 25 january 2013 and 1 february 2013 the social services found that, while the child had developed a solid emotional connection with the father, he had not lost his bond to his mother. in june 2013 the social services recommended that the third applicant, kh.p. he informed the psychologists that he and the child slept in the same bed at night and avoided their attempts to discuss the child’s psychological development. ’s lack of cooperation, in not taking the child to the appointments. a psychological assessment of the child and the situation with his parents was drawn up in september 2013. the bailiff postponed any further enforcement measures. on 3 september 2014 she asked the bailiff to order weekly meetings between her and the child on the premises of the social services, emphasising that that was something to which kh.p. they also informed the third applicant that the bailiff had ordered the child to report to the social centre every thursday at 4 p.m. in order to meet with the third applicant. on 28 november 2014 the third applicant wrote to the bailiff, copying in the social services, and expressed her concern about the child’s well-being. ’s active obstruction of the enforcement of the judicial decision granting custody to her. according to him, the bailiff informed him that as the meetings with the child were scheduled to take place at the weekend, when the bailiff was off work, the fourth applicant would be better being accompanied to the meetings by witnesses. notwithstanding those efforts, the fourth applicant submitted that he was still unable to see the child owing to the obstacles created by the mother. (b)  enforcement of the fourth applicant’s contact rights 73. on 19 august 2013 for not complying with the contact arrangements in favour of the fourth applicant. the fourth applicant informed the bailiff on 28 october 2013 that he would not be in a position to meet his child for the foreseeable future owing to health problems.
the applicants were born in 1974 and 1994 respectively and live in baku. the applicants participated in an assembly on 6 may 2014. the courtroom was full, and therefore some people gathered outside the court to wait for the outcome of the proceedings. the protest was brief, spontaneous and peaceful. the applicants were arrested during the dispersal operation and were taken to a police station, where they were kept overnight. the applicants were questioned at the police station. according to the applicants, they were never served with copies of the administrative-offence reports or other documents from their case files. they were not given access to a lawyer either after their arrest or while they were in police custody. according to a police officer’s decision and an order dated 6 may 2014, a state-funded lawyer (mr o.a.) was invited to defend the first applicant. according to the applicants, the hearing before the first-instance court was very brief in both cases. according to the applicants, they were not given an opportunity to appoint lawyers of their own choosing. a state-funded lawyer was invited to defend the first applicant. who had been invited to defend her in accordance with the above-mentioned police officer’s decision of 6 may 2014. the second applicant was not represented by a lawyer. according to the transcript of the hearing concerning the first applicant, the state-funded lawyer did not make any oral or written submissions. with respect to the second applicant, the court did not question any witness. in both cases the nasimi district court found that the applicants had participated in an unauthorised demonstration. on unspecified dates the applicants lodged appeals with the baku court of appeal, arguing that their convictions had been in violation of their rights, because the protest in which they had participated had been spontaneous and peaceful. the first applicant was assisted by a lawyer of her own choosing before the baku court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1936 and lives in skopje. referring to a report registered as file no. it contained information about the applicant’s place of birth, his personal identification number and the positions he had held. 6825 had been wrong since the file had obviously been about another person with the same name and not him. he argued that he had never visited sweden and had lived since 1955 in skopje. 2599 and denied that he had ever collaborated with or provided any information about any colleague to the state security services, let alone that any such collaboration had met the criteria specified in section 18 of the lustration act (see paragraph 24 below). he argued that his reputation, dignity, personal information and integrity had been compromised. lastly, he contested the administrative court’s explanation about the possible legal avenues he could have used to challenge the veracity of the documents in file no. furthermore, his arguments on that point should have been dealt with in the impugned proceedings. it found no grounds to depart from the facts as they had been established and the reasons given by the commission and the administrative court. it involved collecting information about an individual, violating their human rights on ideological or political grounds, in return for material benefit for the collaborator or informant, or favours during employment or in getting promotion. it was composed of a president, a deputy president and nine other members, elected by parliament by a qualified two-thirds majority for a five-year term (section 6(1)). sub-section 2 stated that the lustration commission had to publish its decisions of a finding of collaboration with the state security services on its website. the commission’s decision was to be published on its website. section 4 provides that administrative disputes are decided by administrative court (at first instance) and by the higher administrative court (on appeal). when the evidence suggests that the actual facts are different from those established by the public entity in the administrative proceedings, the administrative court may itself establish the facts and decide the case. in such cases the facts are determined at a hearing in the presence of the parties. article 33 § 1 (3) of the criminal code provides that a convicted person can be prohibited from exercising a profession, activity or duty. among other provisions, the court set aside section 13, which had provided for the publication of a collaborator’s name in the official gazette after final conclusion of the lustration proceedings (see paragraph 17 above). further to the extracts cited in ivanovski case, the venice commission amicus curiae of 17 december 2012 read as follows:“d. the publication of the names of those persons who are deemed to be collaborators 74.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s husband owned part of a house and a yard in sofia. by a decision of the mayor of 15 october 1981 the property was expropriated with a view to constructing a metro station. the decision, based on section 98(1) of the territorial and urban planning act of 1973, provided that the applicant’s husband was to be compensated with a three‑room flat in a building which the municipality planned to construct. in 1989 the applicant and her husband were moved out of the expropriated property and settled in a two-room municipally-owned flat. the expropriated house was subsequently pulled down. by a supplementary decision of 1 september 1989, based on section 100 of the territorial and urban planning act, the mayor determined the exact location, size and other details in respect of the future flat offered in compensation, which was to measure 94 square metres. in 1993 the applicants’ husband passed away, after which the applicant became the owner of the future flat allocated in compensation to him. in the years that followed the applicant requested on many occasions that the authorities complete the compensation procedure and deliver the flat due to her, but to no avail. the construction of the building in which the flat was to be located did not commence. in 2001 the applicant brought a tort action, claiming wrongful failure on the part of the sofia municipality to build and provide her with the flat due to her during the period from january 1993 to september 2001. in a final judgment of 6 march 2008 the supreme court of cassation, holding that the municipality was responsible for the failure to deliver the flat within a reasonable time-limit, awarded the applicant 10,000 bulgarian levs (bgn) in non-pecuniary damage and bgn 44,320 for loss of profit. in 2009 the applicant brought a new tort action against the sofia municipality covering the period after october 2001. the action was dismissed in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 22 march 2013, on the ground that the applicant had had a special remedy at her disposal, namely the possibility provided for in section 9(1) of the transitional provisions of the territory planning act 2001 to claim monetary compensation for the expropriated property instead of compensation with a flat (see paragraph 16 below). in 2013 the sofia municipality informed the applicant that the construction of the building where the flat due to her was to be located was to start in the near future. according to the latest information submitted by the parties in 2014, the municipality was looking for a company to carry out the construction works.
on the date of lodging of the applications, the applicants were regarded for civil-law purposes as belonging to the male sex. the first applicant submitted three medical certificates issued by these doctors during the period in question. in the third certificate, dated 16 january 2008, dr h. stated that he had been overseeing the applicant’s hormone treatment for “typical primary gender identity disorder since 1 june 2006, together with dr b.”, and that “following endocrinology and metabolic tests, including karyotyping, [he was being] treated with anti-androgens and oestrogen”. the first applicant also produced a medical certificate issued on 3 april 2008 by another psychiatrist, dr ba., she was accepted for the appropriate surgical treatment, namely gender reassignment surgery. ... the surgery consisted of an orchidectomy, a vaginoplasty, a clitoroplasty and a labiaplasty, combined in a single operation. is under supervision for typical harry benjamin syndrome, for which a gender reassignment process has been under way for several years. she has had hormone treatment and the surgery required to make her appearance and behaviour female. in the fourth certificate, dated 16 march 2010, dr p., a doctor specialising in fundamental psychopathology and psychoanalysis and a psychotherapist, stated that he had started psychotherapy sessions with the first applicant and, in particular, had “noted ... the consistency between ms [a.p.] the court of appeal further noted that the hormone treatment referred to in the certificates issued by dr h. on 16 january and 10 september 2008 dated back a long time. secondly, he argued that it had been fully established by the medical certificates he had submitted that he was transgender, that he had undergone surgery which made him a woman, and that his physical appearance and social behaviour were female. he submitted that, although he had been entered in the register of births as male, he had been aware from a very young age of belonging to the female gender. owing to social pressure he had tried to hide his true nature and had married twice while living with the male identity entered on his birth certificate. he dressed as a woman and was perceived by others as a woman. furthermore, after noting that [the second applicant] had merely produced a certificate issued by a doctor on 23 april 2009 on the headed paper of a different doctor, in which the former certified that the latter, an endocrinologist, was treating [the second applicant] for gender dysphoria, and which stated that the patient had been receiving treatment with feminising hormones since 2004, the court of appeal found that this medical certificate alone did not demonstrate the existence or persistence of a gender identity disorder, or the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process. while most of the documents he used in everyday life reflected his gender identity, this was not the case of his civil-status documents, passport, driving licence, vehicle registration papers or entry in the national identity register. he simply stated that his general practitioner had prescribed hormone treatment for him which meant that he had female secondary sexual characteristics such as breasts. the third applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 3 january 2011. given that [the third applicant] has not furnished intrinsic evidence of the irreversible nature of the gender reassignment process in his case, which cannot derive from the sole fact that he is seen by others as female, the dismissal of his claims by the court of appeal did not infringe the principles laid down under articles 8 and 14 of the convention ..., but rather struck a fair balance between the requirements of legal certainty and the inalienability of civil status on the one hand, and the protection of private life on the other ...” 53. the fourth stage consisted in reassignment surgery.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1935, 1963, 1965 and 1963 respectively. the churches decide independently whether to levy a tax and what its rate should be. any church member who does not want to pay church tax can leave that church by declaration towards the authorities. if spouses are members of different churches entitled to levy taxes (konfessionsverschiedene ehe) and if they have opted for a joint income tax assessment (gemeinsame steuerliche veranlagung), both churches levy the tax on the spouses in the form of an additional levy on the income tax of both spouses. if the calculation of the income tax leads to a demand to pay more tax, offsetting cannot take place. his wife is member of the protestant church, which is authorised to levy church taxes. in 2005 the first applicant left his church and was no longer obliged to pay church taxes. for the tax assessment period of 2008 the spouses opted for a joint tax assessment. page one showed the authority’s tax calculation (ergebnis des steuererhebungsverfahrens) in a table, with one column for income tax (einkommensteuer), one for solidarity tax (solidaritätszuschlag) and one headed “protestant church tax, wife” (kirchensteuer evangelisch ehefrau). it finished with a credit for the first applicant of eur 1,203.00. the document then had explanations of the items. zur einlegung des einspruches ist derjenige befugt, gegen den sich die kirchensteuerfestsetzung richtet.”). the second applicant is a member of the protestant church. his wife, who was not member of a church, had income of eur 162,522. the second applicant filed an objection to the decision. on 29 august 2005, 5 february 2006 and 26 june 2008 the competent tax office levied church tax on the third applicant for the years 2004 to 2006. as the applicants had opted for a joint tax assessment, the third applicant’s church tax was calculated with his income tax as a proportion of the income tax attributable to him, rather than in proportion to his share of the spouses’ total income (see paragraph 12 above). on 8 may 2009 the third and fourth applicants appealed against the decision refusing them leave to appeal, alleging, inter alia, a violation of their freedom of religion. the fifth applicant lives in nuremberg, situated in the german land of bavaria. on 22 july 2009 the fifth applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging, inter alia, a violation of her right to freedom of religion.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in baku. the opposition planned to hold demonstrations on 12 and 26 january 2013 in baku. information about the demonstrations was disseminated through facebook or the press. the participants in the demonstration of 12 january 2013 were drawing the public’s attention to the deaths of soldiers in the army. the applicant attended both demonstrations, but shortly after they had begun the police started to disperse the assemblies. in both cases the applicant was arrested during the dispersal operation and was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. according to the applicant, he was never served with copies of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents in his case files. in neither case was he given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while in police custody. a statement written by the applicant on 26 january 2013 at the police station and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the second case the applicant had declared that he did “not need a lawyer because of his financial [situation]”. in the first case, after having been held for a few hours in police custody, the applicant was released, subject to an undertaking to reappear at the police station on 14 january 2013. in the first case, the applicant was brought before the nasimi district court on 14 january 2013, the day he reappeared at the police station. in the second case he was brought before the nasimi district court on 26 january 2013, the day of his arrest. members of the public were not allowed to attend, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearing to the public. according to the applicant, in both cases he was not given an opportunity to hire a lawyer of his own choice. a statement signed by the applicant on 14 january 2013 and submitted to the court by the government showed that in the first case, the applicant had declared that he did not need legal assistance and would defend himself in person. the record of the court hearing in the second case shows that in his oral submissions, the state-funded lawyer briefly stated that there had been elements of the administrative offence in the applicant’s actions, and asked the court to adopt a fair decision. in both cases, the court questioned police officers who had participated in the dispersal operations and police officers who had prepared the administrative-offence reports against the applicant. the police officers testified that the applicant had staged an unauthorised demonstration. the court sentenced him to fines of 500 manats (azn) and azn 400 respectively. he also complained that his arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the respective first-instance courts had not been fair.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in mondsee. among the injured parties there were also austrian banks. however, he subsequently absconded and did not appear at the court hearing in which his sentence was to be determined. on 6 july 2007 the applicant was arrested in austria on the basis of the arrest warrant of 29 may 2002 (see paragraph 7 above) and subsequently placed in pre-trial detention. on 23 july, 17 august and 24 september 2007 the applicant filed complaints against the continuation of the pre-trial detention. the applicant unsuccessfully requested his release also on 28 january, 8 may and 12 august 2008. on 16 november 2007, 21 april and 15 july 2008 the applicant applied to be granted access to his case-file. among other things, he declared that he was willing to give a statement concerning the accusations against him. on 26 march 2008 the regional court rejected his requests on formal grounds. on 1 may 2008 the applicant lodged an objection because of alleged violations of his rights (einspruch wegen rechtsverletzung) and again applied to be granted access to his case-file. the applicant appealed against this decision. on 9 october 2008 the applicant lodged another complaint relating to his fundamental rights with the supreme court. on 6 april 2009 the applicant again requested his release from pre-trial detention. he argued that he had already been tried and sentenced in the united states for the same offences. on 7 october 2010 the regional court dismissed the application. further, it held that the main reason for their length was that the applicant had filed a large number of objections and appeals. on 25 october 2011 b. was nonetheless appointed by the prosecutor’s office and given a deadline of nine months to provide the opinion. on 26 december 2013 the regional court granted the objection, holding that the prosecutor’s office had not adequately reacted to the exceeding of the time-limit by the expert, who should have been discharged as a consequence. on an unspecified date, the applicant’s appeal against the indictment was rejected by the vienna court of appeal. therefore, it has become legally binding.
on an unspecified date in 1995 the applicants brought an action against the bucharest municipal council and the local council of the sixth district of bucharest, seeking the recovery of property rights over 1,761 sq. by a decision of 9 april 1998 the bucharest county court allowed the applicants’ action on the merits. the decision was not appealed against by the parties and thus became final. on 27 january 1999 the office of the mayor of bucharest, relying inter alia on article 322 § 5 of the romanian code of civil procedure (hereinafter “the rccp” – see paragraph 13 below), brought extraordinary appeal proceedings against the applicants, seeking review (revizuire) of the final judgment of 9 april 1998, and submitting that a new document had appeared concerning the land claimed by the applicants. they referred to a report drafted on 29 december 1998 by the management agency for markets of district no. 6 (administraţia pieţelor sectorul 6 bucureşti), which stated that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace. by a decision of 24 september 1999 the bucharest county court allowed the action brought by the office of the mayor of bucharest on the ground that the document had not been in the file during the first set of proceedings and that it showed that the land claimed by the applicants was occupied by a marketplace. by a decision of 29 january 2002 the bucharest court of appeal allowed an appeal by the applicants on the ground that the document invoked by the office of the mayor of bucharest was a document which did not comply with the requirements set out in article 322 § 5 of the rccp, since it had not existed at the time when the final decision of 9 april 1998 was delivered. furthermore, the court found that the domestic authorities had failed during the first set of proceedings to raise the issue of the legal situation of the land before the court without an objective reason and could have recovered the investment made on the land claimed by the applicants by bringing separate proceedings against the applicants and seeking recovery of the money. by a final decision of 14 january 2003 the supreme court of justice allowed the appeal (recurs) lodged by the office of the mayor of bucharest on the ground that although the document had not existed during the proceedings which had ended by the final judgment of 9 april 1998, it concerned a pre-existing situation. furthermore, the court found that the provisions of article 322 § 5 of the rccp had to be interpreted as referring to documents used by one party to prove, in the light of new elements, facts which generally had not been known by the court which had delivered the judgment under review. in the light of the above, the court held that the concept of “document” had to be interpreted restrictively. lastly, it considered irrelevant the fact that the document relied on by the party seeking review had been obtained by means of the undertaking of research into other documents which had existed at the time of the judgment of 9 april 1998 and which attested to the same facts, but had not been brought before the court delivering the judgment in question. on 12 february 2002 the applicants filed a request pursuant to law no. 10/2001 on the rules governing immovable property wrongfully seized by the state between 6 march 1945 and 22 december 1989; they requested the restitutio in natura of the plot of land of 1,761 sqm. it appears from the file that in 2010, the request was still pending before the administrative authorities, in so far as further documentation needed to be submitted.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lived in pamažupiai, pasvalys region. on 31 may 2007 another inspector from the state labour inspectorate looked into how the accident had happened and concluded that the applicant had fallen from the scaffolding because of his own recklessness. however, it also noted that the injury to the face would leave a big scar, possibly resulting in disfigurement and impairment of facial expression. when he had come to, he had realised that he was not lying near the scaffolding, where he must have fallen, but in a different place. in november and december 2007 the investigator interviewed several of the applicant’s co-workers and other people who had worked near the factory construction site. from january to june 2008 more witnesses were interviewed and the investigator requested various documents from the applicant’s employer and from several state institutions which had assessed the applicant’s health and ability to work after the accident. in january and february 2009 the investigator examined the site of the accident and interviewed more witnesses. among other things, the investigator was requested to identify whether on the day of the accident or earlier the applicant and other workers had been ordered by their employer to attach the metal platform to the reservoir tank. also asserted that he had previously given different testimony because of pressure from his employer. on 3 july 2009 the prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation. in its judgment the court noted that although more than two years had passed since the accident, the prosecutor had still not determined the precise way in which the accident had happened, and that without doing that it was not possible to determine who had been responsible for it. had been present at the construction site at any time that day. submitted a request to continue the investigation and carry out additional investigative measures but that request was dismissed. on 1 april 2011 the prosecutor issued an indictment against v.j.s. under article 176 § 1 of the criminal code and on 5 april 2011 the case was transferred to the klaipėda district court for examination on the merits. ’s lawyer informed the klaipėda district court that his client was still sick and had a medical certificate that was valid for another seven days. submitted a medical certificate indicating that he would be sick from 16 to 23 january 2012, which also showed that he would undergo rehabilitation treatment from 23 january to 6 february 2012. subsequently, owing to the accused’s continued illness, the court further adjourned the case to 11 april 2012, 24 april 2012, and then to 8 may 2012. the klaipėda district court held a hearing on 8 may 2012 from which the applicant was absent. on 22 november 2012 the prosecutor general’s office, in response to a complaint by the applicant, informed him that it had analysed the work of the prosecutors involved in the case and had not detected any “substantial violations” (esminiai pažeidimai) of the code of criminal procedure.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in moscow. prior to its privatisation, the flat at 103-29 dmitrovskoye shosse, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. n. and her son b. had resided there as tenants since 1968 under the social housing agreement with the city. on 11 june 2002 the municipal authority supervising real-property transactions in moscow (“moszhilservice”) authorised an exchange of flats between n., whose name had not been removed from the tenant register, and k. 8. on 16 october 2002 the moscow housing department transferred the title to the flat to k. under the privatisation scheme. on 18 november 2002 k. sold the flat to the applicant. on 19 november 2002 the registration committee registered the applicant’s title to the flat. the applicant moved into the flat with his family. on 14 february 2004 the investigation was suspended as the whereabouts of the alleged perpetrators had not been established. the criminal investigation against him was closed. according to the government, the investigation was reopened in respect of the other suspects. according to the applicant, his counter-claim for damages was dismissed by the court as premature. on 17 april 2006 the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow granted the prosecutor’s claims. the court invalidated the exchange of flats between n. and k. it further considered that k. had defrauded the city of moscow by submitting falsified documents for the exchange and privatisation of the flat, which should be construed as execution of the relevant transaction in the absence of intent to do so on the party of the city of moscow. on 18 september 2008 the moscow city court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 5 february 2007 the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings in respect of the judgment of 17 april 2006. the applicant continued to reside in the flat. it appears that the bailiffs service lost the writ of enforcement and on 30 march 2012 the housing department applied for a duplicate. on 28 december 2013 the applicant rented another flat for the period from january to march 2014. on 25 august 2014 the housing department entered into a permanent social tenancy agreement with the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in orenburg. in june and july 2006 the investigation division of the leninskiy district police department of orenburg instituted criminal proceedings into robberies committed by an organised group. on 31 august 2006 he was questioned as an accused in the presence of his lawyer and denied being involved in the crimes. there are no records of any investigative actions having been carried out that day with his participation. they shackled his hands and legs and tied his arms with a belt. they pushed him to the ground and almost suffocated him by putting a plastic bag and a gas mask over his head that cut off his air. the applicant fainted several times so they burned him with cigarettes to make him come around. at 9 p.m. the applicant was taken back to the sizo. 249 of 18 september 2006, акт медицинского освидетельствования). according to the additional medical records on the applicant from the sizo for the period from 19 to 23 september 2006, he complained of headache, nausea, dizziness, vomiting and pain on the left side of his body when breathing. he had twitching eyelids and hand tremors. he was diagnosed with neurocirculatory dystonia of a hypertensive type and received treatment. according to l.’s report, the applicant had been brought to the ubop on 18 september 2006 as part of actions taken under the investigation, and had been taken to l.’s office for an interview. the investigator relied on l.’s denial of ill-treating the applicant. on the same day the promyshlennyy district deputy prosecutor annulled the investigator’s decision as unlawful and ordered an additional inquiry. on 27 october 2006 s. again refused to open a criminal case, citing the same grounds. the applicant appealed against the decision of 27 october 2006, arguing, inter alia, that the inquiry had not been thorough and that the state’s responsibility had been engaged under article 3 of the convention because he had received injuries during his detention that had been confirmed by medical evidence. on 19 september 2007 a judge at the promyshlennyy district court of orenburg dismissed the applicant’s complaint. on 6 march 2008 the orenburg regional court convicted the applicant on several counts of robbery and sentenced him to twelve years and four months’ imprisonment. on 24 november 2008 a deputy head of the investigation department of the orenburg town prosecutor’s office dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the investigator’s decision of 27 october 2006, considering that the inquiry had been thorough and objective.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vienna. he is a former lawyer who was admitted to the bar in 1969. on 26 january 1999 the applicant renounced his right to practise as a lawyer because he had, as a result of his gambling addiction, committed criminal offences. on 28 june 1999 the applicant was convicted of aggravated fraud and embezzlement and sentenced to seven and a half years’ imprisonment. on 7 march 2001 the applicant requested the committee to inform him why it had still not decided on his application, despite his repeated requests. on 22 june 2001 the applicant was interviewed by a medical expert, who submitted his report on 20 july 2001. on 5 february 2002 the competent division of the committee (hereinafter, “the committee’s division”) partly rejected as being lodged out of time and partly dismissed on the merits the applicant’s application for an invalidity pension. on 30 april 2002 the plenary of the committee (hereinafter, “the plenary”) dismissed the objection. on 14 june 2007, under article 132 of the federal constitution (bundes-verfassungsgesetz), the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s failure to decide (säumnisbeschwerde). on 18 january 2008 the applicant requested the administrative court to decide on the merits, claiming that the plenary still had not issued a decision. in addition, it had appointed another expert only at the end of the extended time-limit. on 25 january 2008 the expert submitted his report and on 11 february 2008 he submitted a supplementary report. on 8 april 2008 the committee’s division dismissed the applicant’s application for an invalidity pension. consequently, on 26 june 2008 the administrative court closed the proceedings regarding the applicant’s complaint of 14 june 2007 about the plenary’s failure to decide (see paragraph 11 above), and awarded costs to the applicant. on 21 april 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the committee’s division’s decision of 8 april 2008. on 15 july 2008 the plenary granted the objection and referred the case back to the committee’s division. on 20 october 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court about the plenary’s decision. on 17 december 2009 the administrative court quashed the plenary’s decision, holding that the committee’s division had not been competent to issue its decision of 8 april 2008 (see paragraph 14 above), as the case had been pending before the plenary after the administrative court had quashed the latter’s decision of 30 april 2002 (see paragraph 10 above). on 22 february 2012 the administrative court dismissed the complaint as unfounded. that decision was served on the applicant on 5 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in budapest. the crime was initially considered to constitute aggravated armed robbery committed by unknown perpetrators. on the same day the police searched the applicant’s house but did not find anything relating to the robbery. none of the police officers involved could positively identify the fugitive. he was arrested on suspicion of armed robbery. indeed, there was a considerable risk of his absconding. on 15 april 2013 the budapest high court dismissed an appeal brought by the applicant, without hearing him in person. it reiterated the reasoning of the first-instance court. the application was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 31 july 2013, the day before the court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 october 2013. it also referred to the impending severe punishment and the risk of his reoffending. as regards the specific grounds of his pre-trial detention, the court no longer referred to the fact that he had fled, since he had then voluntarily appeared before the police. both the applicant and his lawyer were present at the hearing. on 11 october 2013 the budapest high court upheld this decision. the expert opinions obtained by the authorities and forwarded to him did not contain anything supporting his involvement in the crime. on 8 july 2014 the budapest chief public prosecutor’s office preferred a bill of indictment, as the investigation had been terminated. without hearing from the applicant, the court pointed out that the severity of a potential punishment was not in itself sufficient to establish a risk of a person absconding; however, the applicant’s personal circumstances, such as him being unreachable even to his family members, showed that such a risk existed. on 1 august 2014 the applicant appealed, arguing that none of the evidence made available to him supported the claim that he was the person who had escaped police arrest, and none of the involved police officers could identify him. the first hearing before the trial court took place on 19 september 2014. the budapest high court held further hearings on 13 november 2014, 15 january, 7 april, 19 june, 15 september, 7 october, 3 november, 1 and 21 december 2015, 9 february and 23 march 2016. the second-instance trial is still pending.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in norway. he had also been the owner of the magazine since 1996 and wrote analytical and investigative articles for each edition under his own name. in particular, in january 2004 a police officer had threatened him with death and told him to stop writing about the president and his family. it appears from the record that one bullet and seven cartridges were found at the crime scene and that two bullets were removed from the body. the expert also found that death was likely to have occurred a few minutes after the injuries had been sustained. on the same day the investigator questioned the applicant as a witness in connection with her husband’s murder. further to various requests sent in march 2005 to the russian authorities concerning the pistol found at the crime scene, the russian authorities confirmed that the pistol in question had been produced in russia as a gas pistol and had then been exported to bulgaria on the basis of a contract with a bulgarian company. in the meantime, the prosecuting authorities identified two mobile telephone numbers which had allegedly been used by the perpetrators of the murder. on the same day the investigator charged t.x., a georgian national, under the aforementioned articles 277 and 228.1 and issued a warrant for his arrest. on 27 may 2005 a panel composed of three experts issued report no. a georgian national, had been identified as another suspect. on 9 august 2005 the investigator showed various photographs to the applicant for identification. on 14 november 2006 the investigator again questioned the sister of t.x. as it had not been possible to establish his whereabouts. it was further stated that in accordance with articles 87 and 102 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 61 below) the applicant had the right to familiarise herself with the case file and obtain copies of documents only when the preliminary investigation was over. it appears from the record of the questioning that t.b. stated that he had not seen them since his release from detention on 19 march 2007 and that he had no information about their whereabouts. on 4 july 2008 the applicant’s norwegian lawyer and the norwegian helsinki committee wrote to the prosecutor general’s office and the mns asking for the documents relating to the criminal investigation of the murder of the applicant’s husband. by a letter of 17 march 2009 the national central bureau of interpol in azerbaijan informed the head of the investigation department of the mns that t.a.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in san marino. 93 of 2008, the inquiring judge ordered that investigation file no. by a decision of 23 june 2014 the commissario della legge, in his capacity as inquiring judge, described over twenty-five pages the circumstances resulting from the investigations and informed the applicant (along with other suspects) of the charges against him. 769/12 was partially classified and thus partially subject to non-disclosure. in connection with both files, in the text of its judgment the court considered that the applicant must be allowed access to such documents with the limited aim of allowing the applicant to be fully aware of the evidence already collected, especially that as a result of which the inquiring magistrate had ordered the applicant’s arrest and detention. 184/14 had been partially declassified before the appeal judge’s decision). by a decision of 18 july 2014, notified to the applicant’s legal representatives on 22 july 2014, the judge of criminal appeals upheld the order of 30 june 2014 and dismissed any further claims. he found that no new elements had emerged since the interim decision of 30 june 2014. indeed, more information than that strictly required had been communicated to the applicant and the judicial communication at issue had been exemplary, both in respect of the quantity and the clarity of the information provided. the court noted that the investigation file had not yet included a detailed list of its contents. according to the applicant a further request to examine witnesses remained unheeded. it ordered that the two investigations files be declassified in part, as to allow the applicant to have access to the files and evidence collected in the further investigations on which the inquiring judge had based his decision to dismiss the applicant’s bail application in favour of keeping him on remand. moreover, despite the relevant time-limits having expired both files remained classified, and the applicant could not have knowledge of the further evidence collected and whether it supported suspicions against him, or the contrary. by a decision of 6 november 2014 the judge of criminal appeals upheld the detention order, considering that evidence had already been presented to support the decision to keep the applicant in detention. on 6 march 2015 the inquiring judge dismissed the application. by a decision of 20 march 2015 the judge of criminal appeals dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court noted that the detention order of 23 june 2014 had stated that the reasons for considering detention necessary had been the fear of the applicant’s reoffending and tampering with evidence, which had been justified by the role played by the applicant in the organisation and by the complex and effective network he could benefit from. it amply demonstrated that the applicant (with others) had participated in the transfer and concealment of funds generated from crimes committed in san marino or elsewhere. the secrecy regime was however maintained, in part, in connection with certain documents concerning both proceedings at issue as well as other documents and evidence yet to be collected following this decision. the applicant was ordered not to communicate with his co-accused (mrs b.) and had to submit his travel documents to the authorities, in line with a travel ban which was being imposed concurrently.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in plungė. the father of the applicant’s husband owned 9.24 hectares of land in telšiai region. in 1991 the brother of the applicant’s husband applied to the national authorities for the land to be returned to him and his brothers. replied that he had already chosen the form of restitution in 1991, which was restitution in natura. he stated that he would have to think about the offer and would inform the authorities before 1 may 2002. was also informed that if a form of restitution was not chosen, the property rights would be restored in the form determined by the authorities. asked the authorities whether and when he would be paid damages for the failure to restore his property rights in natura or to provide him with a plot of land of equivalent value. replied that he had never been offered any plots of land of equivalent value and would only accept the restoration of his property rights in natura or a plot of land that was truly of equivalent value. to choose a form of compensation for the land. ’s representative participated in a meeting at the plungė district land service, where she was asked to inform the authorities which land v.v. two plots of land were shown to the representative and the next day she replied that she refused to accept them. the applicant replied that she would not submit any request if the land was not returned to her in natura or a plot of equivalent value was not provided. in august 2007 during a meeting at the plungė district land service it had been decided to include v.v. in november 2007 the plungė district land service established that because the applicant had refused to clearly indicate the form of restitution, she would be paid monetary compensation for the land. she further asked the authorities to explain why there had been no activity from 1993 to 1999 in the process of the restitution of her property rights. finally, she complained that compensation calculated at ltl 3,437 (approximately eur 995) was too low. however, they had never expressly done so. in october 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal. had been aware of the fact that there was no possibility of returning the land to him in natura because it was already being used by other people. however, she had not issued the applicant with the document allowing the applicant to get the monetary compensation paid to v.v.
the applicants were detained in korydallos prison in athens when they lodged their application with the court. the second applicant was detained in korydallos prison on 22 march 2013 and the third applicant on 21 august 2013; they were still in detention when they submitted their observations to the court. the sixth applicant was detained in korydallos prison from 30 january 2013 to 15 august 2014. the applicants alleged that the prison held 2,400 prisoners, while it had been designed to accommodate 700. the applicants were detained in wings a and d in various cells which all measured 9 sq. the toilet facilities were partially separated from the rest of the cell. in addition, there was insufficient heating and hot water. inmates had to use a washbasin to wash themselves, as well as their dishes and clothes. cells were dirty and overrun with cockroaches and other pests, and no attempt was made to exterminate them. rubbish was not properly collected and food remains were left in the cells and corridors for days. prisoners were not sufficiently separated according to their health conditions or whether or not they were drug users. there was no adequate medical care, in particular as regards psychological health. they had to take their meals, which were poor in terms of quality and nutritional value, inside their cells. the government asserted that the first to fifth applicants had been detained in various cells in wings a and d. all cells measured 9.60 sq. every cell was furnished with a washbasin, a toilet, beds, a table, chairs and, usually, wooden shelves. wings a, b, c and d had twelve communal showers each, and wing e had nine communal showers. each wing could provide 2,000 litres of hot water every day. detainees were provided with sheets and blankets, except for when they chose to use their own. cells were regularly disinfected and cleaned twice a day by cleaning crews consisting of detainees. the government submitted the applicants’ medical records, to demonstrate that they had been treated on various occasions.
the applicants were all detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki (τμήμα μεταγωγών); they were either in pre-trial detention or serving a prison sentence. specifically, the first applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 24 january 2013 until 29 april 2013; the second applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 27 november 2012 until 1 march 2013; and the third applicant was detained in the transfers department of thessaloniki from 29 january 2013 until 11 march 2013. however, the number of detainees accommodated had varied from twelve to twenty-two. cells had been insufficiently lit and ventilated, which, in addition to overcrowding and the filthiness of the premises, had affected inmates’ health. the applicants furthermore stressed that there had been insufficient heating and hot water and that they had never been provided with soap. detainees had been confined to their cells and had not been allowed to spend time outside, which had affected their psychological health. recreational activities had not been offered and cells had not been equipped with televisions or radio. the meals that had been provided to detainees had cost 5.87 euros (eur) per day and had not sufficed to cover their daily dietary needs, either in terms of quantity or quality. on 22 february 2013 the applicants lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor, complaining of the conditions of their detention but received no reply. the government firstly argued that the applicants had complained in a general way, without providing specific references concerning the actual conditions of their detention. as regards the premises in which the applicants had been detained, the government submitted that the transfers department of thessaloniki had been comprised of six cells on the ground floor which had measured 59 sq. m each and had been designed to accommodate ten male detainees. there had been another two cells which had accommodated female detainees. all cells had had in-cell sanitary facilities and had had sufficient light and received sufficient ventilation through large windows. cells had accommodated five to fifteen detainees. most of the detainees had been held in the facility for very short periods of time, as the transfers department had been used when transferring detainees from one facility to another or to the court room. as a result, when the number of detainees had exceeded the number that the cells had been designed to accommodate, that had only remained the case until transfers had been completed. in any event, the space available for each inmate had never been less than 4 sq. an external contractor had cleaned the facilities every day and had disinfected the detention areas once a week. hot water and heating had been available throughout the premises and all sheets and blankets had been regularly cleaned and replaced in the event that they had become worn out.
the applicants were or are still detained in ioannina prison. of the applicants, the fourth was released on 11 march 2013 and the eighth was transferred to alikarnassos prison on 6 december 2012. the fifteenth applicant was released on 1 march 2013 and the twenty-first on 14 march 2013. the thirty-fourth and fifty-third applicants were released on 31 may 2013, the thirty-ninth and forty-eighth on 26 april 2013, the fortieth and fifty-second on 30 april 2013, the forty-sixth on 10 april 2013 and the fifty-first on 11 april 2013. the applicants alleged that the prison had held 235 prisoners but had only been designed for 85. there were four big cells measuring approximately 45 sq. m each, which had accommodated 32 detainees. there were also four smaller cells: cell no. m and had accommodated 20 detainees, cell no. 8, which used to be laundry room, measured 10 sq. they had had to take their meals inside their cells. there was not enough separation between prisoners serving sentences and those in pre-trial detention. inmates had to wash and dry their clothes and underwear in the toilet facilities, which further spread contagious diseases. medical care had been inadequate, particularly as regards psychological health. m with two toilets each, one cell of 36 sq. extensive repair works had been carried out in 2012 throughout the prison facilities and all areas had been repainted, stools had been placed in the cells, and a bookcase, television and table tennis table had been added to the dining-room, which served several purposes. numerous cultural events had been regularly organised for the inmates’ entertainment. the cells had been regularly disinfected and cleaned on a daily basis. ventilation and heating had been adequate in the cells and common areas. appropriate standards of hygiene had been strictly observed and each new inmate was provided with clean clothing and blankets.
the applicants were born in 1970, 1966, 1976 and 1972 respectively. mr rezmiveş, mr moşmonea and mr gazsi are currently detained in timişoara, pelendava and baia mare prisons respectively. mr mavroian, who had been detained in focşani prison, was released on 13 january 2015. on 5 april 2011 the first applicant was admitted to gherla prison. he remained there until 12 march 2012, when he was transferred to aiud prison. on 13 april 2012 he was transferred to oradea prison, where he stayed until 20 december 2012, before being moved to timişoara prison on 5 august 2013. the first applicant complained about the conditions of detention in gherla, aiud and oradea prisons. in particular, he complained of overcrowding (submitting that there was between 1.60 sq. m of living space per prisoner), the lack of natural light, the short duration of daily exercise and the lack of recreational activities. ... on 13 february 2008 the second applicant was placed in pre-trial detention in craiova prison. following his conviction, he served his sentence there until 17 may 2012, when he was transferred to târgu-jiu prison. on 11 july 2012 he was transferred to pelendava prison. on 15 december 2009 the third applicant was admitted to rahova prison, where he stayed for several months before being transferred successively to tulcea (2010), iași (2010-14) and vaslui (2011-13) prisons. the third applicant complained about the conditions of detention in rahova prison, referring in particular to overcrowding, lack of ventilation in cells, mould on the walls, poor-quality food and the presence of bedbugs. ... the fourth applicant was held in the baia mare police detention facility from 26 march to 25 may 2012 before being transferred to gherla prison. in his application form the fourth applicant complained of poor hygiene conditions, the lack of a toilet, running water, natural light and adequate ventilation, the presence of rats and the insufficient access to showers at the baia mare police detention facility. in relation to his detention in gherla prison, he complained of overcrowding, lack of ventilation in cells, insufficient and poor-quality food served in rusty containers, and the presence of only one bathroom between twenty-seven detainees, which had two toilets and no hot water and could not be cleaned more than once a month.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in donji milanovac. he was employed by ðerdap, a company in kladovo (ribarsko gazdinstvo “ðerdap” – hereinafter “the debtor company”). on 28 december 1998 the applicant was reassigned to a lower post by his employer. he was subsequently dismissed on 20 january 2000. these two decisions, taken by the company’s managing director, were upheld by its board of management. on 18 february 1999 the applicant filed a civil claim against the debtor company; on 26 april 2000 he filed a separate claim seeking reinstatement to a suitable position, as well as the outstanding salary payments and social benefits. on 19 june 2003 the majdanpek municipal court (hereinafter “the municipal court”) ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the debtor company to reinstate the applicant to a post which corresponded to his professional qualifications and to pay him specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 23 october 2003. on 16 february 2004, 9 march 2004, 18 and 19 october 2004, respectively upon the applicant’s requests to that effect, the municipal court accepted the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. the municipal court provided the national bank of serbia (narodna banka srbije – “the central bank”) with the above-mentioned enforcement orders on 14 april 2004, 20 july 2004 and 11 november 2004, respectively. it would appear that none of the above-mentioned enforcement orders have been enforced to date. on 8 april 2010 the central bank informed the zaječar commercial court of the suspension of the debtor company’s accounts for three years. on 13 april 2010 the commercial court opened preliminary insolvency proceedings against the debtor company. on 30 june 2010 the commercial court opened and closed the insolvency proceedings against the debtor company and that decision became final on 10 august 2010. the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 31 august 2010. the debtor company in the present case had been a socially owned company. in 1991 it was transformed into a limited company which remained mainly socially owned, and remained as such until it was struck off the register (see http://apr.gov.rs/, accessed on 1 december 2016).
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in kosovo. in november 1994 the applicant was arrested for working illegally, and on 16 november 1994 the dornbirn district administrative authority (bezirkshauptmannschaft) issued a decision imposing a five-year residence ban (aufenthaltsverbot) on him. on 5 january 1995 the applicant lodged an asylum claim, which on 27 january 1995 was dismissed by the federal asylum office (bundesasylamt) as unfounded. his appeal against that decision was dismissed, and he voluntarily returned to kosovo in september 1997. they received a temporary residence permit, which was extended several times. he was in pre-trial detention and then prison from 28 july to 11 november 2003. the applicant was in prison from 23 may until 12 november 2007. it was his ninth criminal conviction in austria. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. on 7 april 2010 it conducted an interview with him, during which he stated the following concerning his living situation in austria. his parents, his three siblings and their spouses and children all lived in the same city as him. his father still owned some land and three shops in kosovo, which were run by relatives at that time. he would, however, prefer to stay in austria, where his children went to school. turning to the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention, the federal asylum office acknowledged how established his private and family life was in austria, where his family members were living. according to the applicant’s own statements, his father still owned some land and three shops in kosovo, so it could be assumed that he could find work. on 27 june 2011 the asylum court (asylgerichtshof) confirmed the relevant parts of the federal asylum office’s decision. he had reoffended even after he had been issued with the ban prohibiting his return to austria, a fact which did not speak in his favour. the constitutional court then asked the asylum court to submit a statement regarding this new fact. the asylum court replied on 13 september 2011 that the applicant had spoken of four children throughout the proceedings, but had never mentioned that one of them had in fact been born as a result of an extra-marital relationship and had never lived with him in the same household. he could continue to pay financial maintenance from kosovo for his daughter.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kresnice. taxes and the outstanding mortgage on the house were also paid from the proceeds. it sought enforcement of the principal amount of eur 124 plus default interest. on 2 june 2009 the ljubljana local court issued an enforcement decision – a writ of execution – against the applicant, ordering the seizure of his movable property as requested by company j. the decision contained a notice that an objection could be lodged by the debtor within a time-limit of eight days. on 7 january 2010 an enforcement officer went to the applicant’s house with a view to seizing movable property. as neither the applicant nor any other adult member of his household was found at the address, a note was left on 8 june 2010 directing the applicant to collect the report at the post office. in the meantime, on 29 april 2010, the enforcement officer inspected the interior of the applicant’s house in the presence of the applicant’s wife and concluded that it contained no objects which could be seized and sold to cover the debt concerned in the proceedings instituted by company j. the officer again left a note inviting the applicant to pay the debt, now amounting to eur 516, voluntarily. the applicant did not appeal against the decisions. on 8 october 2010 the litija local court ordered a second public auction to be held on 18 november 2010. the decision also contained a notice to the bank, which stated, among other things, that if no assets were currently available, the bank should proceed with the seizure once assets became available; if no assets became available within a year of the decision being served on the bank, the latter should inform the court to that effect. on 24 november 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the award decision in which he informed the court that he had repaid the debt (see paragraph 26 above). he argued, inter alia, that he had been unable to go to the auction and that he had only learned from the impugned decision that the auction had been held. he had been having financial difficulties throughout that year since his father had died and his mother had lost her job. the applicant lodged an objection to the above decision (see paragraph 32 above), stating that the enforcement proceedings instituted by company j. had already been discontinued and that he wished to have a.a. see paragraphs 26 and 29 above), which thus became final. the litija local court transferred the property sold at public auction to him and ordered that his name be entered as the owner in the land register. the court further stated that the constitutional court, in its decisions nos. the decision was served on the applicant on 18 august 2011. in the meantime, on 28 july 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the decisions of 12 january and 25 may 2011 (see paragraphs 35 and 37 above). in particular, he argued that the court had been under no obligation to attach immovable property to the enforcement order.
at the material time the applicant company was the publisher of kvartirnyy ryad, a newspaper specialising in coverage of the housing market in the moscow area (“the newspaper”). on 20 may 2004 the newspaper published an article by g. entitled “so sorry for the bird. the article described a conflict situation concerning a large commonhold association, bluebird (синяя птица), which included eight blocks of flats in the south-west of moscow. g. suggested in the article that a number of residents of the bluebird flats had been affected by the alleged misuse of common areas, in particular attics in the blocks of flats and that t., the head of the commonhold association, had been behind the misuse. the article asked t. and the local government questions pertaining to the misuse of the common areas. ... but t. has expressed his distrust in the commission elected by the general meeting and has appointed his own commission...as a result t. has managed to retain his position ...... the commission was not elected, but appointed, which guaranteed the appointment of t. for a third term ...... in sum, even though t. did not have the majority of the votes, he nonetheless managed to conclude the contract ...... let’s ask one final question, which again pertains to t.: does a state official have the right to combine his official functions with a commercial business activity?” on 28 may 2004 t. lodged a defamation claim against the applicant company and g. with the presnenskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the plaintiff alleged that the statements contained in the article damaged his honour, dignity and business reputation. the court received the statement of claim on 15 june 2004. on 8 december 2004 the district court examined and partially allowed the claim, referring to article 152 of the civil code and resolution no. it reasoned:“... the impugned statement: “... who [has] developed an indecently hasty business activity spitting in the face of the commonhold association’s charter and a number of regional and federal laws” should be retracted [by the defendants] ... as during the judicial examination of the case the defendants failed to prove that t.’s actions were unlawful. the defendants, a third party and witnesses explained that an attic ... had been unlawfully rented out. the lease agreement had been unlawfully concluded by t. ...however, no evidence has been provided [by the defendants] to the court to prove that the plaintiff’s actions were unlawful or illegal or in violation of federal and regional law or the commonhold association’s charter. moreover, the issue of the lease of the attic ... was examined by the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow. by the decision of the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow of 19 may 2004 actions of the bluebird commonhold association headed by t. were found to be in compliance with the law in force. ... as to the statement: “let’s ask one final question, which again pertains to t.: does a state official have the right to combine his official functions with a commercial business activity?” the district court ordered the applicant company “to refute the statement [published] in the newspaper kvartirnyy ryad on 20 may 2004 ... that t. developed activities as the head of the “bluebird” commonhold association, violating the association’s charter as well as a whole range of laws of the capital area and federal law”. the applicant company and g. appealed against the judgment to the moscow city court (“the city court”). on 25 july 2005 the city court rejected a request by the applicant company for supervisory review. on 13 october 2005 the enforcement proceedings were terminated by a bailiff as the judgment of 8 december 2004 had been enforced in full.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in hamburg. on 19 march 1970 the applicant married a.s. in 1992 they moved to riga but maintained their place of residence in hamburg. the couple maintained contact by telephone and post. there is no information on the content of that document. he also submitted that prior to lodging this claim he had talked to the applicant over the telephone and had informed her of his intention to bring divorce proceedings. also alleged that the applicant’s last known place of residence had been their apartment in riga and that, owing to their disagreements, he could not find out where the court summons should be sent to. on 13 january 2004 the riga city ziemeļu district court summoned the applicant to a divorce hearing by sending summons to her previous place of residence in riga – the apartment in which she used to live with her husband a.s. upon receiving the information from post authorities that the applicant did not live at the above address, on 27 january 2004 the applicant was summoned to the hearing scheduled for 1 march 2004 with a notice in the official gazette. was represented by a lawyer who stated, inter alia, that a.s. no appeal was brought against this judgment and it came into force on 27 april 2004. one of the witnesses who had testified in the divorce proceedings. the government did not dispute this fact. had been aware of the applicant’s address in hamburg. the senate of the supreme court concluded that, since a.s. ’s claim had not contained a reference to the applicant’s address and since the riga city ziemeļu district court had therefore been unaware of her whereabouts, its actions had been compatible with the procedural requirements of the civil procedure law. passed away on 30 april 2004, a fact which excludes any further proceedings. ’s retirement pension and health insurance had been transferred to their shared bank account, as well as to their place of residence in hamburg. the government, in turn, relied on the information a.s. on 3 november 2005 the applicant brought civil proceedings against a.a.
the present case concerns the applicant’s trial and conviction for attempted murder of m. g., a businessman and former parliamentarian. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. on 29 december 2001 a bomb placed under m.g. ’s car detonated when the latter started the engine in the morning. with whom he had major disagreements over business-related issues, as the only possible offender. he denied the offence and stated that he had been at home with his son, v.g., was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder. the charges against him were eventually dropped several months later since his involvement in the offence had not been established. she mentioned that about a year before, the applicant had complained about m.g. the parents had maintained good relations and the family was in contact almost every day. the applicant and their two children v.g. since 2001, when they had settled in the building. a friend of the family, was arrested following the discovery of a large quantity of firearms and explosives in his house. on 23 september 2005 the applicant was arrested and charged with instigation of attempted murder and property damage. and tried not to maintain any contact with him. since their divorce in 1999 and had no interest in his business activities. in the course of the proceedings before the criminal court of appeal y.w. however, he had no intention of killing m.g., ’s pre-trial statement of 29 january 2002, a.at. on 21 november 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law claiming, inter alia, that the court of appeal had based its conclusions on the pre-trial statements of l.g.,
the applicant was born on 12 may 1988 and at the time of his most recent communication with the court was detained in toretsk (previously dzerzhynsk). once at the police station, the applicant was separated from his father and questioned as to whether he had any information about the grinder which had disappeared from the shop. the father stated that the applicant had apparently brought the grinder home around the time of the murder and had originally told him that a stranger had been offering the grinder for sale. once the man had dropped the grinder, the applicant had picked it up and run away. when he had brought the grinder home he had said to his father that someone had been offering to sell a grinder. according to the authorities, on the morning of 21 february 2005 the applicant asked to see the officer in charge of the police detention facility. he also noted that he had kept to his initial confessions until his conviction because his cellmates and the police had told him that the police would make his life difficult in prison if he told anyone of the pressure on him. on the other hand, they had assured him that if he chose to cooperate with the police they would make sure the charges against him were not serious and that he would be released from custody right after his trial. accordingly, he had said nothing to his lawyers about his ill-treatment. the prosecutor also appealed, in particular arguing that the sentence was excessively lenient. on 10 may 2006 the toretsk court again remanded the applicant in custody. on 30 november 2006 the toretsk court returned the case for further investigation and ruled that the applicant should remain in custody. on 21 march 2007 the applicant’s case was submitted to the regional court for a retrial. on 25 january 2008 the regional court convicted the applicant of robbery and the murder of d. 46. in particular, it made the following findings. (f)  while the statement in the arrest report that “eyewitnesses indicate the person who had committed the crime” (see paragraph 15 above) had been technically incorrect in the applicant’s case, the discovery of the grinder in the applicant’s home had in fact constituted an independent legal basis for his arrest. it was not true that, as stated by the regional court, he had repeated his confession to psychiatrists. on 26 january 2006 the toretsk prosecutor’s office, in response to the applicant’s mother’s complaint of 16 january 2006, refused to institute criminal proceedings in relation to the applicant’s complaints for lack of a corpus delicti in the police officers’ actions, concluding that there was no evidence of any physical or psychological ill‑treatment. in the course of examination of the case against the applicant, on 14 june 2006, the applicant complained to the trial court about the beatings, handcuffing, stripping and the threats of prison rape he had allegedly been subjected to by the police. o. had had a conviction at some point in the past but his conviction had been considered sufficiently old to have been considered expunged by time the applicant had been detained with him.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in cologne. in 2009 the applicant defended a client in criminal proceedings. the subject of the bank transfer read: “prof dr sommer fees (client’s last name)”. in 2010 and 2011 the bochum public prosecution office conducted investigations into several individuals suspected of having committed fraud on a commercial basis as members of a gang. on the basis of the bank transfer of fees from the fiancée to the applicant in relation to the first set of criminal proceedings, the bochum public prosecution office also contacted the applicant’s bank. on 1 march 2011 the public prosecutor asked for a list of all transactions concerning the applicant’s bank account from 1 january 2009 until that day. he asked the bank not to reveal the request to the applicant. (f)  if bank accounts have been closed by the person in question, please submit information about the date of closure and the balance at the time of closure, and where the money was transferred after closure. (g)  which addresses of the person in question are known to you? (h)  are you aware of any money transfers to or other transactions with foreign countries? (i)  please submit a list of all transactions for all existing or closed accounts from 1 january 2009 onwards. in both instances, the public prosecutor did not order the bank to submit the information, but pointed to the obligations of witnesses set out in the ccp and the possible consequences of non‑compliance (see paragraph 23 below). from the case file he learned, for the first time, of the investigative measures concerning his own bank account. therefore, since the investigative measures were legitimate, the information received had to be kept in the investigation file. the applicant therefore asked the regional court to return the data. on 19 july 2012 the regional court refused the applicant’s application. the court found that the investigation was lawful, that the bank had provided the information voluntarily, that the documents could therefore only be returned to the bank and not to the applicant, and that the prohibition of seizure under article 97 of the ccp (see paragraph 28 below) was not applicable, since the information had not been in the applicant’s possession. he challenged in particular the findings that the bank had acted voluntarily and that there had been sufficient suspicion for such an extensive analysis of his banking transactions. he further reiterated that, owing to his position as a lawyer, there were several safeguards in place concerning the seizure of documents (see paragraphs 26-29 below), and these should not have been circumvented because his and his clients’ personal information was stored at and by the bank, and not at his office. on 13 september 2012 the hamm court of appeal confirmed the decision of the regional court.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in shakhty, the rostov region. on 29 march 2005 the rostov-na-donu military court (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the commander of the military unit no. 3654 (“the military unit”) to provide the applicant certain monetary compensation and allowance for the periods specified in the operative part of the judgment. the judgment came into force on 15 april 2005. according to the applicant, having received the writ of execution, he forwarded it to the commander of the military unit who partly executed the judgment (see paragraph 9 below). according to the government, on 6 may 2005 the applicant received two writs of execution in his case and sent them to the military unit. according to the parties, the judgment was enforced only in part. on 22 august 2005 approximately 68,000 russian roubles were paid to the applicant in execution of the judgment. as the government submitted in their observations, the allowance for the period from 1 march 2003 until the date of the applicant’s reinstatement in military service as well as some additional payments due to the applicant under the judgment of 29 march 2005 had not been transferred to him. as submitted by the applicant, despite his subsequent requests, the original copy of the writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 29 march 2005 was never returned to him by the military unit. therefore, on an unspecified date he requested the military court to issue a duplicate of the enforcement document. in 2005, 2006 and 2008 the applicant applied for an additional decision to be made in his civil case against the military unit which resulted in the judgment of 29 march 2005. he considered that an additional decision specifying the amounts to be paid to him under the judgment of 29 march 2005 would resolve his difficulties in claiming the outstanding amounts. in his application of 26 may 2006 he also asked the court to index‑link the delayed payments and claimed non-pecuniary damage for the delayed enforcement of the judgment of 29 march 2005. the military court rejected all of the applicant’s claims, explaining that he should have applied for an additional decision before the entry into force of the judgment of 29 march 2005. on 3 april 2008 the military court refused the applicant’s request to clarify the judgment of 29 march 2005 by indicating the specific amounts to be paid. the court considered that the applicant’s request amounted to a call to amend the judgment rather than to clarify it. it held that the text of the judgment was clear enough and the applicant’s disagreement with the way it had been enforced was not a sufficient ground for clarifying the judgment. on 14 may 2008 this decision was upheld on appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the applicant association intended to organise a demonstration to protest against the business practices of company x, which ran the shopping centre, for example by raising rents by 300%. on 12 may 2008 the applicant association, acting through its lawyer, informed the mayor of the lesznowola commune (wójt gminy) about its intention to organise a demonstration on 19 may 2008. the organisers estimated the number of participants at 150 people. at the mayor’s request, on 12 may 2008 the lawyer representing the applicant association specified that the demonstration would take place at no. 16 nadrzeczna street, opposite two warehouses. nadrzeczna street is used by public transport minibuses and by the school bus. therefore organising a demonstration on that street between 7 and 10 a.m. would block the entire length of the street and also limit or even make impossible any journey by car to krakowska street and in the farther direction of grojec. on 14 may 2008 the board of directors of company x sent a letter to the applicant association referring to the demonstration planned for 19 may 2008. in conclusion, the applicant association was urged to stop organising illegal demonstrations on premises belonging to company x. if the association failed to comply, company x would take all necessary legal actions and inform the prosecuting bodies. it argued that the demonstration would be limited to a small part of the street and that there were alternative streets which would allow access to the shops and the centre of the village. the decision was delivered to the applicant association’s lawyer on 25 august 2008. the mayor emphasised the fact that wolka kosowska had about 700 inhabitants, some of whom used nadrzeczna street to get to work and school in the mornings. moreover, there were about 400 registered businesses in the village, most of which were located in the zone affected by the planned demonstration. access by those entrepreneurs and for deliveries would be impossible. in such circumstances, the emergency services would also be prevented from accessing the zone. she stated that disruption to traffic would make impossible any intervention by the police or other emergency services. the demonstration planned for 2 october 2008 took place. it relied on article 57 of the constitution, which guarantees freedom of assembly. on 9 may 2009 the constitutional court refused to consider the complaint.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in the village of trudobelikovskiy, krasnodar region. at around midnight on 15 august 2007 the applicant, who was 19 years old at the time, and b. were taken in a police patrol car to the police station of the syktyvdinskiy district of the komi republic for an examination of allegations of assault made against them by two individuals, in particular of the sexual assault of a woman. the police intervened immediately after the alleged assaults. investigator n. instituted criminal proceedings against him and b. and ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant to establish, in view of the nature of the crime, whether the applicant had any pathology which would prevent him from performing sexual acts. on the same day the applicant complained to the ministry of the interior of the republic of komi that he had been ill-treated at the police station. on 17 august 2007 the applicant was arrested, questioned as a suspect and detained on remand by a court. the decision relied on the following statements. investigator n. stated that he had interviewed the applicant after he had signed his “statement of surrender and confession”. the applicant had not complained of any physical violence against him. investigator n. denied that the applicant had been put under any physical or psychological pressure. stated that he had learned from duty officer s.a. about the applicant striking his head against the bars of a cell. on 4 march 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic granted an appeal lodged by the applicant’s mother and quashed the district court’s decision, noting that no assessment had been made of the contradiction between the medical expert’s conclusions and the police officers’ allegations of the applicant’s self-harm. on 21 march 2008 the syktyvdinskiy district court ruled that the refusal to open a criminal case of 29 august 2007 had been unjustified for reasons largely similar to those cited by the supreme court. the court ordered the investigation authorities to rectify those deficiencies. such records were normally kept for three days and then automatically deleted. on 24 april 2008 the applicant was found guilty by the syktyvdinskiy district court. the applicant’s mother challenged the second refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers and investigator n. 25. on 16 june 2008 the syktyvdinskiy district court dismissed her appeal. the applicant appealed against the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in zagreb. in this connection, she underwent further treatment until july 1997, when it was found that her condition was such that she would not recover. the applicant took early retirement on grounds of disability. on 29 january 1998 the applicant lodged a civil action against the hospital and the relevant insurance company with the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski (građanski sud) u zagrebu), claiming damages for alleged medical malpractice. the parties exchanged further submissions in february and march 1999. the applicant submitted an expert report drafted by v.f., according to which her medical condition had notably deteriorated in january 1997. on 27 september 2000 a hearing was held at which the zagreb municipal civil court decided to commission an expert report concerning the circumstances of the applicant’s treatment. submitted a supplement to her report, finding that there were no indications of medical negligence in the applicant’s treatment. in april 2001 the applicant challenged j.g. on 8 november 2001 a hearing was held for the questioning of the experts, who reiterated their findings. the university of zagreb medical faculty produced a report on 28 april 2005. in september and december 2006 the applicant urged the zagreb municipal civil court to schedule a hearing. the doctor who had treated the applicant, would be questioned as a witness. at a hearing on 4 december 2008 the zagreb municipal civil court questioned the applicant. on 7 may 2009 the zagreb municipal civil court commissioned another expert report from d.v. on 17 march 2010 the applicant appealed against that judgment before the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) alleging, inter alia, that the medical experts who had drafted the reports had a personal and professional conflict of interest in the proceedings, as they involved allegations of malpractice against their colleagues and the experts were financially dependent on the hospital system. on 26 september 2012 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 12 october 2012. on 7 january 2008 the applicant complained to the zagreb county court about the excessive length of the proceedings before the zagreb municipal civil court.
on 26 february 2014 the applicant began to serve a three-year prison sentence. he was placed in zagreb prison hospital (“zph”). he also had two brain arteriovenous malformations, one of which had been removed in february 2013 by means of gamma knife radiosurgery, and the three-year high-risk recovery period had not yet ended. he referred to his medical documents, which had established basal ganglia in the ventricular system with a risk of haemorrhage, increased by the stress of the prison conditions. this decision was based entirely on an opinion given by dr b., an expert in internal medicine and cardiology. on 25 april 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal, in which he argued that since incarceration his medical condition had been deteriorating constantly, that the zph doctors had themselves recommended that his prison sentence be suspended on medical grounds, and that dr b. could not give a proper opinion on his health since he was not an expert in neurology. on 21 august 2014 the same zagreb county court judge responsible for the execution of sentences dismissed the applicant’s request. she concluded that the applicant had not been suffering from any acute illness, that his chronic illness had improved, that he had been receiving good medical care at zph, and that it had appropriate staff to meet the needs of the applicant as regards the medical care his condition required. he also asserted that his medical condition could only be properly treated in a specialist medical institution. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed on 14 october 2014 by the prisons administration. during his transfer in a police van he suffered an epileptic fit and lost consciousness. he spent ten hours at the hospital and was then returned to zagreb prison. since there had been no lift at zph, in order to have access to fresh air he had had to climb the stairs to his cell on the second floor, which had been a risk to his health. even though specialists from the two civil hospitals where he had been treated prior to his imprisonment had recommended that check-ups be carried out every month, he had not been given them. there had been no lift, which had prevented him from accessing fresh air. on 31 december 2014 the applicant lodged another application for the suspension of his prison sentence on health grounds, reiterating his previous arguments. on 5, 9, 15 and 17 january 2015 the applicant was taken to rebro hospital in zagreb. a report drawn up there on 15 january indicates that there was no need for any urgent measures. the county court further relied on zph reports dated 20 and 28 january 2015 stating that the applicant had not been following doctors’ orders, had not been taking measures aimed at his treatment and had been deliberately putting his health at risk. there was no comment on the applicant’s complaints concerning lack of access to daylight and fresh air.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently serving a prison sentence in frolovo, volgograd region. between 7.15 a.m. and 8.55 a.m. on 18 april 2009 the scene of the incident was examined by investigator p. from the investigating unit of the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department of volgograd with the participation of attesting witnesses, police officers, and the applicant, who lived in the same block of flats. according to the applicant, they demanded that he give statements concerning the circumstances of the crime committed by him and subjected him to ill-treatment which the applicant described as follows. the applicant gave the statements as demanded. of the investigating unit of the krasnoarmeyskiy district police department of volgograd initiated criminal proceedings against the applicant and his brother. on 20 april 2009 the krasnoarmeyskiy district court ordered his detention on remand. he complained of pain in his chest and in his left knee joint, and of generally feeling unwell. at the hospital he was diagnosed with contusion to the thoracic cage and left wrist, and his condition was assessed as not incompatible with being detained in a pre-trial detention facility. the applicant was interviewed by the sizo officer. the applicant described the circumstances of his alleged ill-treatment and retracted the statements he had given earlier incriminating his brother. the applicant reiterated his self-incriminating statements. the applicant stated to the medical expert that on 18 april 2009 he had been physically assaulted at the police station of the krasnoarmejskiy district of volgograd by police officers who had delivered many blows to his lumbar region, chest, shoulders, hips and ears, and had used a device called a “tp-50” to ill-treat him. between 9 may 2009 and 16 june 2010 investigators from the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigative committee issued eight refusals to initiate criminal proceedings into the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, finding, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, that none of the elements of the offences provided for in articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (on abuse of powers) were present in respect of the police officers’ actions. those refusals were overruled by the head or deputy head of the krasnoarmeyskiy district investigative committee as being unlawful, and the investigators were ordered to carry out additional inquiries. on 10 september 2009 the krasnoarmeyskiy district court of volgograd convicted the applicant of manslaughter and sentenced him to nine years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant pleaded guilty and his confession served as a mitigating factor. the police officers had inteviewed the applicant and established the circumstances of the crime against k. according to b., the applicant had complained of pain in his chest, explaining that he had fallen down a flight of stairs. the applicant’s mother stated that on 16 april 2009 she had seen the applicant without any sign of physical injury. the investigator further noted that the applicant’s forensic medical examination results indicated that the applicant’s multiple abrasions and haematomas could have come about as a result of blows from hard, blunt objects or collisions with such objects or surfaces – including the applicant falling from his own height. on 2 march 2010 the volgograd regional court upheld the judgment in the applicant’s criminal case on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in vilnius. it held that the applicant might try to abscond because he was suspected of serious and very serious crimes which could lead to life imprisonment, he was unemployed, not enrolled in an educational institution, not married and had no strong social ties. the applicant appealed against that decision and asked the court to impose a different restrictive measure. he stated that he had a permanent place of residence with his parents and that he had been taking care of his sick grandmother, so detaining him would negatively affect his family. however, on 12 january 2010 the vilnius regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the vilnius regional court then found that the first-instance court had correctly assessed all the relevant circumstances, and upheld its findings in their entirety. however, on 14 april 2010 the vilnius regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings that the applicant might flee, attempt to interfere with the investigation or commit further crimes, that the criminal case was complex, and that the pre-trial investigation was being carried out with due diligence (see paragraph 40 below). on 30 june 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court of appeal observed that, in accordance with the domestic law, detention on remand could last longer than six months only when the case was especially complex or of a large scale. on 14 september 2010 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against that decision. he was given a suspended prison sentence of two years and one month. on 5 april 2012 the vilnius regional court upheld the conviction. the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months on 8 march 2013 and 13 june 2013, relying on essentially the same grounds as before (see paragraphs 14, 15, 18, 24 and 26 above) and additionally noting that the applicant was accused of serious crimes in another criminal case as well. the court also observed that all the witnesses and most of the co‑accused in the case had already been questioned, so it was no longer necessary to keep the applicant in detention. according to the applicant, he complied with all those conditions and soon after his release he found a job as a security guard. although the court acknowledged that the applicant had been detained for a very long time (more than three years and six months), it reiterated that the public interest outweighed individual liberty, so the nature and seriousness of the charges against the applicant justified keeping him in detention. however, on 7 january 2014 the court of appeal quashed that decision. the applicant appealed against his conviction. on 12 june 2015 the vilnius regional court convicted the applicant of leading a criminal organisation armed with firearms and possession of a very large amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances with the intention to distribute them (articles 249 § 3 and 260 § 3 of the criminal code, respectively).
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in the town of lyskovo, nizhniy novgorod region. in 2004, after having been injected with a toxic drug, the applicant developed an arterial embolism and had to have his left leg amputated at thigh level. four years later he was certified as having a second-degree disability. on 2 february 2009 during a routine disability-related examination, he was also prescribed a cane. on 26 november 2010 the police arrested the applicant on suspicion of drug trafficking. on the same day the lyskovo district court of the nizhniy novgorod region remanded the applicant in custody. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. on 8 june 2011 the detention authorities wrote to him refusing to arrange the examination. three months later the nizhniy novgorod regional court quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial. according to the applicant, no reply was received. on 28 april 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment. the sentence was upheld on appeal by the regional court and became final on 11 september 2012. on 8 october 2012 he received a letter from the federal service for the execution of sentences in the nizhniy novgorod region, informing him that on 2 february 2009 a medical board had only prescribed him a cane. the applicant was invited to apply for a special medical examination to determine whether he needed a transtibial prosthesis. according to the applicant, he promptly lodged an application as advised. on 3 december 2012, during his stay in the hospital, the following entry was made in the applicant’s medical file:“prosthetics refusal recordwe, the undersigned, have made the present record to state that [the applicant] has refused prosthetics of the left limb.” (the document was signed by the deputy head and two surgeons of the prison hospital.) ten days later the applicant was discharged from the hospital. four days later he formally asked the head of the hospital for a prosthetic leg. the applicant was released from detention in november 2014.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in athens, greece. she used to visit moldova on holiday every two to three years and she kept an apartment in causeni. on 15 september 2008, after a visit to moldova, the applicant was returning to greece from chisinau airport when she was stopped by customs officers because she had on her twenty-nine pieces of non-identical jewellery such as rings, bracelets, necklaces and pendants. she also submitted that she had not been asked to declare anything by the customs officers. all the jewellery, including the pieces allowed by law to be transported over the border, was seized by the police. the applicant missed her flight and spent two weeks in moldova during which time she went to the police station on several occasions. there she made an official declaration and signed a formal undertaking to appear before the prosecuting authorities and courts when necessary. she also gave her greek address and telephone number. on 1 october 2008 the applicant returned to greece because she could no longer be absent from work. she had no difficulties in leaving the country through the same airport. subsequently, the applicant was summoned to appear before the investigating authorities via her moldovan address. both of them stated that the applicant was in greece and that they did not know when she intended to return to moldova. it does not appear from the material in the case-file that the prosecutors asked the applicant’s relatives for her contact information in greece or to inform her that she had to appear before them. on 19 june 2009 the botanica district court ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of fifteen days. the publicly appointed lawyer did not challenge that decision. on an unspecified date the applicant’s representative lodged a habeas corpus application with the botanica district court in which it was argued, inter alia, that the applicant had not been aware of the criminal proceedings against her, that she had never been summoned to appear before the prosecutor’s office and that she had not been informed that she could not leave the country. the appeal was dismissed by the chişinău court of appeal on 30 september 2010. in the documents ordering the applicant’s arrest and detention, the greek authorities made specific reference to the detention order issued by the botanica district court on 19 june 2009 (see paragraph 12 above). the extradition proceedings ended on 21 september 2011 when the athens court of appeal rejected the moldovan authorities’ extradition request and ordered the applicant’s release from detention. it appears that the applicant has not returned to moldova ever since.
the applicants were born in 1973, 1985 and 1981 respectively. they forced his legs apart until he fell and then lifted him by his hands, which were shackled behind his back. on 10 july 2006 the leninskiy district prosecutor’s office of orenburg brought criminal proceedings against the applicant in relation to the attempted murder of d. on 12 july 2006 the applicant was arrested. on 31 july 2006 an investigator from the promyshlenniy district prosecutor’s office of orenburg ‒ who had carried out a pre-investigation inquiry into the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment by the ubop officers ‒ refused to initiate criminal proceedings, relying on statements by the ubop police officers, in particular g. and o., that on 17 may 2006 the applicant had been arrested on suspicion of having ordered a murder, and had been taken to the ubop and interviewed, and that no violence had been used against him. on 14 may 2008 the promyshlenniy district court granted an appeal lodged by the applicant against the investigator’s decision. between 4 p.m. and 5.08 p.m. the applicant was questioned as a witness in the criminal proceedings against third persons by investigator a. of the kanavinskiy district investigative committee, who later stated that at the time of the questioning the applicant had had no injuries on the visible parts of his body. according to subsequent statements made by sh. after the applicant’s questioning as a suspect he was taken to a temporary detention facility (an “ivs”). on the applicant’s arrival at the ivs, the officer on duty examined the upper part of his body above the waist and recorded bruises and abrasions. н.новгород су ск россии по нижегородской области). the applicant lodged a complaint with the investigative authorities about his alleged ill-treatment and on 4 february 2011 gave a statement. the other four police officers who had interviewed the applicant had given similar statements. the report suggested that the question of the police officers’ responsibility for the applicant’s ill‑treatment could only be decided by the investigative committee pursuant to a pre-investigation inquiry. that conclusion was based on statements by police officers based at the centre, namely sh., they denied the use of any violence against the applicant. on 27 august 2011 nine police officers (sh., o. punched the applicant twice in the chest, then hit the applicant on his feet with a rubber truncheon for about forty minutes, while the other police officers, in particular a., pinned him down on the floor, holding onto his arms and legs. on 5 september 2011 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint concerning his alleged ill-treatment by the police. when running away the applicant had fallen over several times. he was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and was recommended treatment and rehabilitation measures.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in moscow. the flat at 137a-9-267 samarkandskiy boulevard, moscow, had been owned by the city of moscow. g. had resided there as a tenant under the social housing agreement with the city. on an unspecified date g.’s daughter get. on 19 march 2008, following the expert review of her application, she obtained the relevant certificate. on 28 july 2008 n. sold the flat to the applicant. he and his family moved into the flat and resided there. on 15 may 2009 the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat by get. the government did not inform of the outcome of the proceedings. on an unspecified date the department for municipal housing and housing policy of the city of moscow (the “housing department) brought a civil claim seeking (1) the annulment of the entry in the real estate register confirming the existence of get. on 19 june 2009 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims. on 29 september 2009 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 19 june 2009 on appeal. on 25 january and 12 may 2011 the applicant unsuccessfully lodged an application with the housing department asking for provision of housing. on 13 december 2011 the applicant was evicted from the flat. according to the government, on 16 july 2012 the housing department assigned the flat as social housing to a family of four. on 25 april 2014 the ownership of the flat was transferred to them under the privatisation scheme. on 12 october 2011 the bailiff opened enforcement proceedings. on 15 march 2006 the bailiff discontinued enforcement proceedings as it was impossible to establish n.’s whereabouts or to obtain information about his assets. according to the government, the enforcement proceedings are still pending. the judgment in the applicant’s favour has not been yet enforced.
a report of 28 october 1991 drawn up by the bosanski šamac police in bosnia and herzegovina indicated that the body of a man had been found on 27 october 1991 on the right bank of the river sava. the applicants’ respective husband and father, because an identity card bearing that name was found on it. on 15 january 1998 the untaes mandate ceased and the transfer of power to the croatian authorities began. two men had remained in the van while two others had come into their courtyard. and b., both of whom were known to her son r.m., on 11 july 2003 the police interviewed d.m., they had travelled to novo selo in two vans and another vehicle. had been separated from the others and stationed in the fire station. said that he had gone with a group of volunteers from rijeka to novo selo on 5 september 1991. he could not tell which of the men from rijeka had held the position of commander, but the most prominent men had been d.p. could not tell what those two men had actually been doing in novo selo. said that at the beginning of september 1991 he had travelled to sisak with a group of volunteers from rijeka in a citroen van, driven by n.s., had heard rumours that some people had been taken from their homes. had organised the procurement of arms and equipment. he had heard rumours about arrests and liquidations of civilians but could not confirm that any of the soldiers from the rijeka unit had participated in it. the report also stated that photographs of persons known as š. on 5 january 2005 the second applicant r.m. also enquired whether š had been detained. this included the killing of the applicant’s husband. the applicants sought the re-opening of civil proceedings on 1 august 2014.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in pechora, the komi republic. the applicant sued the municipal unitary enterprise for housing and communal services (mup pechorazhilkomhoz or mup pzhkh – муп печоражилкомхоз – hereafter “the company”) of pechora, the komi republic, for salary arrears. on 31 may 2007 the justice of the peace of the privokzalnyy court circuit of pechora awarded the applicant the equivalent of 18,358 euros (eur) of the salary owed to him for the period from 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2006. the judgment became final ten days later. on 12 january 2009 the pechora town court granted another claim which the applicant had lodged against the company, awarding him eur 592. the judgment became final ten days later. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. it was set up by a decision of the local administration to provide heating supply and housing maintenance services in the local area. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. in 2006 the owner (the local administration) withdrew several of the company’s assets and transferred them either to the local treasury or to other legal entities. on 17 january 2007 the respondent company was declared insolvent and liquidation proceedings started. the company sued the owner in subsidiary liability proceedings. on 13 may 2009 the commercial court of the komi republic dismissed that action, having found that the owner had acted without intending to cause the company’s insolvency when transferring the assets. on 16 june 2009 the company was liquidated. the applicant brought subsidiary liability proceedings against the owner before the pechora town court, arguing, inter alia, that the company’s insolvency had been premeditated. on 21 june 2012 the court dismissed the applicant’s claim against the owner as unfounded. on 3 september 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that decision.
the applicant is a swedish national born in 1950. the applicant suffered for many years from, inter alia, pain in his back and legs and numbness in his right arm. he alternated between full and part-time sick leave from 1996 to 2001. in 1999 he received a partial early retirement pension and in 2002 a full disability pension. the social insurance office (försäkringskassan) appointed an in-house specialist in orthopaedic surgery who, in a written statement, concluded that there was not a high degree of probability (hög grad av sannolikhet) that any harmful element in the applicant’s former employment had caused his problems. on 17 may 2005, after having held an oral hearing, the social insurance office rejected the application. referring to, inter alia, the specialist statement by the insurance doctor, it was held that the applicant had not been subject to any harmful influences which, with a high degree of probability, could have caused or aggravated his problems. the applicant appealed to the county administrative court (förvaltningsrätten) of stockholm. on 19 april 2007 the court, after having held an oral hearing, upheld the social insurance office’s decision in full. against that background, the medical investigation and other material did not adequately support the conclusion that the applicant, in his work, had been subject to any harmful influences which, with a high degree of probability, could have caused or aggravated his problems. the applicant was given the opportunity to submit further observations. the appeal must consequently be rejected.” the applicant appealed to the supreme administrative court (högsta förvaltningsdomstolen). on 4 august 2009, the supreme administrative court refused leave to appeal. consequently, on 30 december 2013, the applicant lodged a claim for compensation for the alleged breaches of the convention with the chancellor of justice. he argued that the administrative court of appeal’s lack of reasoning, as well as its refusal to hold an oral hearing, had infringed his right to a fair trial within the meaning of article 6 of the convention. the chancellor of justice communicated the case to the administrative court of appeal which submitted that its handling of the case had been in accordance with domestic law as well as the convention. in response, the applicant maintained, and developed the grounds for, his claim. on 15 january 2015 the chancellor of justice rejected the applicant’s claim. while the chancellor noted that it would have been preferable, for pedagogical reasons, for the court to have given clearer grounds for why the applicant’s evidence had not been sufficient, she concluded that the reasoning was not so deficient that the applicant’s right to a fair trial under article 6 of the convention had been infringed.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sumgayit. on 7 december 2006 the investigator in charge of the case refused to institute criminal proceedings. after the incident, which stated that the fire had broken out because he had had an epileptic seizure while smoking. he immediately lodged a complaint against that decision with a superior prosecutor. on 16 february 2007 the baku city prosecutor overturned the investigator’s decision and remitted the case to the garadagh district prosecutor’s office for a new examination. ’s cell had been equipped with an adequate fire detection system, to question other inmates, prison guards, and the medical staff who had given first aid to m.m. had not been taken to hospital immediately after the incident. the investigator also noted that handwriting report no. the investigator also pointed out that it was not possible to carry out a forensic fire examination because the scene of the incident had not been preserved and repairs had been carried out in the cell in question. as regards the statements by some inmates that the fire had broken out at approximately 6 a.m., that it had taken an hour for the prison guards to open the door of the cell and that m.m. 2375 dated 19 march 2007, handwriting report no. 17/1/15-954 of 27 february 2007 from the prisons service of the ministry of justice and the statements made by the prison guards, medical staff and inmates detained in gobustan prison, submitting that the case file had been destroyed. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. he also argued that the investigator and the first-instance court had failed to examine photographs of m.m. had been ill-treated, as alleged by the applicant. on 6 december 2007 the garadagh district court overruled the prosecutor’s decision and remitted the case to the prosecuting authorities for a new examination. had broken down could not explain such a long delay. the court further found that it had not been established whether m.m. to hospital because the car had broken down. ’s death and his delayed transfer to hospital.
the first applicant was born in 1953 and lives in mosfellsbær, the second applicant was born in 1980 and lives in reykjavík and the third applicant was born in 1980 and lives in seltjarnarnes. the company was established in 1960 and is one of the leading industrial companies in iceland in the production of plastic packaging material. in october 2010 the liquidator of the bankruptcy estate hired an accountancy firm to investigate the company’s accounts. on 31 january 2011 the accountancy firm finalised a report indicating a suspicion of criminal misconduct by the board members. the chairman of the board, a, who was also one of the owners of the company, was an assistant professor at the university of iceland at the time. the third applicant was identified as its author. 7,150,000 euros at the time) to a large bank in iceland. the amount had increased significantly after the financial crisis in 2008. he stated that no formal decision had been taken to instigate a police investigation. the applicants and a were heard and the email of 16 march 2011 from the police prosecutor to a’s lawyer was submitted as evidence. the statements were declared null and void. however, article 73(3) of the constitution allows certain restrictions on the freedom of expression. it states that freedom of expression may only be restricted by law in the interests of public order or the security of the state, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights or reputation of others, if such restrictions are deemed necessary and in agreement with democratic traditions. [the applicants] claim that the statements are true and refer to the principle that they cannot be held liable for true statements. it is undisputed that, before the newspaper coverage, [the police] had been informed by the liquidator of a reasonable suspicion of criminal acts by the company’s board members, of which a was one. however, it is stated that no formal decision has been taken about a police investigation nor possible criminal acts defined. it was not unreasonably difficult to verify whether such an investigation had in fact been opened. the wording of the statements was of such a nature as to make the reader believe that [a] was a suspect in a police investigation because of his criminal and punishable acts. on 8 may 2012 the applicants appealed to the supreme court against the district court’s judgment. by letter of 31 may 2013 the special prosecutor notified another company representative that “the investigation” into the complaints against him and a had been closed and the case had been dismissed.
after the regaining of independence, in 1991 property reform legislation came into force in latvia and provided that former owners or their heirs could reclaim property nationalised in 1940. on 7 may 1999 the riga regional court ruled in favour of the claimants. as that had been established by a court order in 1995. had purchased 30 ha of forest in jurmala. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 8 june 1999. in order to comply with the judgment, on 6 december 2002 the jurmala city land commission adopted decisions allocating four plots of land to the claimants. had been the sole purchaser of 30 ha of a forest. in january and march 2004 the bureau for the prevention and combating of corruption (“the knab”) asked the prosecutor general’s office to initiate proceedings to reclaim the contested property from the applicants. the fifth applicant entered into various transactions with the contested property. on 15 and 16 december 2003 part of the property was for a total amount of 7,000 latvian lati (lvl) (about 10,000 euros (eur)) sold to a.v. on 27 april 2004 and on 16 september 2004 (with regard to the first and the third applicants) the prosecutor general’s office, acting on behalf of the ministry of finance, lodged a claim against the jurmala city council, the applicants, a.v. and the two other claimants in the initial proceedings. moreover, the joint ownership of the land had ceased after the passing of a decree in 1937, and after that date a.s. the plots of land were returned to jurmala municipality in order for it to finalise the land reform. the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. following an application dated 14 august 2006, the third applicant joined the cassation appeal lodged by the first applicant. the sixth applicant did not lodge an appeal on points of law. with respect to the property claim brought by the prosecutor general’s office, the senate noted that even if the state’s property rights had not been infringed, that did not prevent the court from finding that the second applicant and the two other claimants in the first set of proceedings had had no rights to the contested property. on 16 october 2012 the third applicant was declared insolvent and the riga district court appointed e.k. on 19 february 2013 the insolvency proceedings were terminated and on 14 may 2013 the third applicant was deleted from the company register.
the applicant company, chap ltd, is a private armenian company that was set up in 1999 and has its registered office in gyumri. in 2005 the applicant company established a regional television channel, gala tv, with the intention of broadcasting in the local region. the licence was granted for a period of seven years. gala tv was one of four television stations operating in gyumri and, according to the applicant company, it was widely recognised as one of the few independent voices in television broadcasting in armenia. the head of the ntrc;b)  statements by the heads of companies and individual businessmen that they had placed advertisements on gala tv but had not received any documents acknowledging payment to the applicant company for such services. the applicant company objected to the allegations of tax evasion as fabricated and politically motivated as home-made advertisements that had a social function, which gala tv had broadcast for free, had been taken into account by the authorities in calculating the tax arrears. the investigating authorities discontinued the proceedings after the required amount had been paid. on 27 november 2007 the commercial court admitted the case to its proceedings and at the same time dismissed the application to freeze the applicant company’s bank accounts. on 17 december 2007 the applicant company brought a counterclaim against the srs, challenging the results of the tax inspection. could not be used as evidence to support the findings of the srs in its report. on 29 january 2008 the administrative court admitted the case. on 12 march 2008 the applicant company’s lawyer lodged an application to obtain and examine the tax records of the companies that had advertised on gala tv and had been inspected by the srs. he claimed that those tax records contained tax reports and other documents which could rebut the evidence submitted by the srs. to whose statements the srs had referred in its report. on 19 march 2008 the administrative court granted the srs’s claim against the applicant company in part. the administrative court decided to levy a total charge of amd 25,116,700 (approximately eur 50,000) on the company, including amd 14,291,300 (approximately eur 28,400) for value added tax (vat), comprising arrears, a 60% fine and surcharges for late payment; amd 8,338,300 (approximately eur 16,600) for profit tax, comprising arrears, a 60% fine and surcharges for late payment; and amd 2,487,100 (approximately eur 5,000) for the tax authority’s development fund. in establishing the applicant company’s vat and profit tax liability, it relied, inter alia, on the documents provided by gr. which had been referred to in the srs’s report. on 4 august 2008 the court of cassation returned the applicant company’s appeal on the grounds that it had failed to pay the correct amount of state fee and set a deadline for resubmission. after paying the required state fee, the applicant company resubmitted its appeal on 3 september 2008.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in cocieri. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). on 22 august 2010 the applicant, who is an entrepreneur, was transporting merchandise to an agricultural market in the town of dubasari in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”). he was stopped by two persons presenting themselves as customs officers of the “mrt” who seized his van and the merchandise contained therein on account of his having allegedly failed to register the vehicle. on 7 october 2010 the “mrt” customs authority issued a decision obliging the applicant to pay a fine of some 1,320 euros (eur) in return for being able to recover his van and merchandise. in the meantime the applicant complained to the authorities of the republic of moldova about the seizure of his van and merchandise. on 9 september 2010 the dubasari prosecutor’s office initiated a criminal investigation into the facts of the case and several suspects were declared wanted. however, the investigation was suspended in 2014. on 21 july 1992 the presidents of the russian federation and the republic of moldova signed an agreement in moscow to put an end to the military conflict in the transdniestrian region of moldova. under the agreement, a security zone was created between the conflicting parties and a joint control commission (hereinafter “the jcc”) was set up to monitor the implementation of the agreement in the security zone. the jcc is composed of representatives of russia, the republic of moldova, and the “mrt”. any decisions made by the jcc must have the consent of all the parties (for more details, see ilaşcu and others (cited above, §§ 87-91). reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in portorož. they have been in conflict for several years and have both instituted several sets of legal proceedings against each other. lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant. at that point he allegedly engaged in arguing with the applicant who allegedly replied with the aforementioned threats. on 2 april 2007 the piran local court held a hearing. he said that the applicant had been standing somewhere between his entrance and the courtyard of the house during the incident but had refused to sketch where the incident had taken place. the judge found it unnecessary to obtain the evidence in question and the following day acquitted the applicant finding that it had not been proved that the applicant had directed the threats against r.h. who stated that the cleaning lady had on the day of the incident told him that the applicant had not allowed her to enter the courtyard. was not to be believed as he was a drug addict and a criminal. ’s written statement of 30 november 2008. had called him after the incident of 13 february 2004 and told him that the applicant had said that he had bought a gun and would end this. the court also found the applicant’s argument that the whole incident had been made up unpersuasive. as the facts had been sufficiently established and further stated the following reasons for the dismissal of the applicant’s application to have the evidence examined:“...the court did not hear evidence from d.č. it would appear that no charges were eventually brought in this connection and the applicant instituted civil proceeding against the state, claiming compensation for non-pecuniary damage due to the infringement of his personal rights caused by the ineffective criminal investigation. could not be considered a reliable witness. it noted that this witness could presumably testify to the hostile relationship between the applicant and r.h. on 30 august 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. testified that he had been a friend of r.h. had told him if he had been threatened by the applicant. ’s had influenced witnesses and that his request to that effect had been rejected by the courts during the criminal proceedings, including by the supreme court, which meant that this could not be considered as new evidence.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1974 respectively and live in sesvete. on 12 december 1996 at about 8.30 p.m. one d.m., and one other person died and the second applicant was gravely injured. during the enquiry the military police took statements from witnesses and on 3 july 1997 sent a report on the incident to the zagreb county state attorney’s office. the relevant part of the report reads:“on 12 december 1996 at about 8.30 p.m. at the n. pizza parlour ... soldier d.m. was consuming alcoholic beverages at the bar in the company of d.ma., an employee of the judicial police) and ž.b. who put it on the counter saying ‘what would i need this for?’, seeing that the grenade had been activated, took it in his right hand and turned sideways from the counter, after which an explosion occurred. [ sustained grievous bodily injuries and ž.b. ... on 1 july 1998 the applicants brought a civil action against the state in the zagreb municipal court. the first-instance court again allowed the claim on 17 september 2010. however, on 5 april 2011 the zagreb county court, after an appeal lodged by the defendant, overturned the judgment and dismissed the applicants’ claim. who had been a croatian homeland war veteran, obtained the right to a survivor’s pension because [d.m.] as an active military serviceman, had occurred while [he had been] carrying out his official duties ...the first-instance court also concluded that there had been a failure on the part of the defendant [to carry out a weapons] check under section 14 of the instruction on the allocation, distribution, carrying and use of official short weapons. the damage most likely would not have occurred. ’s status as a croatian homeland war veteran – that is to say an insured military person. lastly, this court considers ... in respect of the failure of the defendant to carry out a check on the carrying of weapons and to seize [weapons] where there is no licence [to carry them], as the basis of the defendant’s liability, that there is no proof ... that the military police had a duty to carry out a check in the pizza parlour in question on the critical evening or that the competent authorities knew that d.m. possessed a grenade and failed to seize it from him. this decision was served on the applicants on 3 july 2014.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in sofia prison. the copy of the relevant order in the case file is not signed by the applicant, who was on the run and being sought by the police at that time. i have been informed of my rights and obligations as a charged person and of my right to refuse to give evidence. he affirmed that it had been the applicant who had killed both victims. on 14 june 2001 the burgas regional court delivered its judgment. who was a close relative of the owner and an employee in the same establishment. had left the applicant and moved in with n.b. and to steal the cash kept in the bureau de change. on the afternoon of 1 july 1999 the applicant and a.s. who had been carrying the pistol, had burst into the premises and fired one point-blank shot at the victim’s left temple. the security guard had been killed instantly. the court of appeal considered the criminal case between february and july 2002. the court of appeal gave credence to the accused’s initial statements, which had been made to an investigator in their lawyers’ presence after they had been formally charged. the court of appeal turned its attention to the applicant’s version of events to the effect that the two murders and the robbery had been committed by a certain v., an iranian national, and that the applicant himself had been at his place of work in sofia at the material time. he was incarcerated in burgas prison from 27 january 2000 to the beginning of march 2000, and again from 14 april 2000 to 25 february 2004. there had been neither running water nor a toilet in his cell. according to a report by the governor of burgas prison submitted by the government, the applicant had problems adapting to the prison regulations; his attitude to the wardens and the prison authorities had been refractory and disrespectful. m. there had been no running water in the cell and the prisoners had used a bucket as a toilet. m., with a bed, a table, a rack, a shower and a private toilet. his application was dismissed with final effect by a judgment of 14 september 2011 delivered by the supreme administrative court, which found that the impugned provisions of the implementing regulations were not contrary to the prisons act and that the adoption of the regulations had not involved any irregularities justifying their being declared void.
on the night of 25 july 2009 traffic police stopped the applicant’s car. following the applicant’s failure to produce his driving licence and suspecting that it had been withdrawn, police officers took him to the duty unit of the ezhvinskiy district police station, where he was kept in a cell for administrative detainees until the following morning. a record of the applicant’s administrative arrest was drawn up. on 26 july 2009 the justice of the peace of the vezhdinskiy court circuit of the ezhvinskiy district found the applicant guilty of driving a vehicle after the withdrawal of his driving licence (an administrative offence under article 12.7 § 2 of the russian code of administrative offences) and sentenced him to fifteen days of administrative detention. on 31 july 2009 the applicant made a written request to the head of the detention unit seeking a family visit. the next day the request was returned to the applicant bearing a handwritten note by the acting head of the detention unit, mr s., which stated that family visits were not “provided for [by law]”. on 14 august 2009 the applicant’s representative lodged a complaint with the syktyvkar town court, alleging that the applicant’s right to family life guaranteed by article 8 of the convention had been unlawfully restricted. the police officials filed a written objection, arguing that the internal rules governing detention facilities for administrative detainees did not provide administrative detainees with the right to have a family visit. on 15 september 2009 the syktyvkar city court dismissed the applicant’s complaint, having accepted the police authorities’ argument that administrative detainees were not entitled to a family visit under the domestic law in force and that the applicant had been subjected to those limitations of his rights as a negative consequence of the administrative detention. relying on the court’s judgments in the cases of messina v. italy (no. 25498/94, § 61, echr 2000‑x) and vlasov v. russia (no. 78146/01, § 123, 12 june 2008), he argued that the authorities’ assistance in maintaining contact with close family was an essential part of a detainee’s right to respect for family life. limitations imposed on the number of family visits constituted an interference with the applicant’s rights under article 8 of the convention. restrictions of that kind could only be applied “in accordance with the law”, should pursue one or more legitimate aims and, in addition, should be justified as being “necessary in a democratic society”. the representative submitted that there was no norm in russian law imposing restrictions on family visits for administrative detainees. on 22 october 2009 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the city court’s decision, having reasoned as follows:“there is no prohibition on family visits for administrative detainees. ...[at the same time] a refusal to authorise a family visit has a basis in russian law; however, it should be warranted by circumstances and conditions providing the competent authorities with the right to apply the disputed restriction. providing law‑enforcement bodies with unlimited powers in issues pertaining to fundamental rights could run contrary to the superior role of the law and could result in arbitrary interference with human rights. in the case under examination, there are no grounds for concluding that the actions of the acting head [of the detention unit of the police station where the applicant had been detained] were unlawful because, having applied for a family visit, [the applicant] had not indicated whom he had wanted to see and what the relationship was between him and that person. if those important details are not provided, the authorisation of a family visit cannot be considered lawful.”
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in bela crkva. he was employed by “betonjerka”- dp, a socially-owned company based in bela crkva (hereinafter “the debtor”). on 20 may 2003 the bela crkva municipal court ordered the debtor to pay the applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. on the same day this judgment became final. on 14 october 2003 upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the bela crkva municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. the government in its observations maintained that the said judgment had been fully enforced by the domestic decisions of 2 december 2004, 4 november 2005 and 19 may 2006 respectively. the applicant did not contest this submission. in addition the domestic court ordered each party to pay its own costs of the civil proceedings. this judgment became final on 18 february 2009. on 30 april 2009 upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the bela crkva municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor to pay the applicant the enforcement costs. the said decision remains unenforced to the present date. on 12 may 2009 the pančevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 22 september 2009, upon a submission to that effect, the pančevo commercial court recognized the applicant’s respective claims. on 27 august 2012 the pančevo commercial court terminated the insolvency proceedings against the debtor, having decided to continue with the insolvency action against the debtor’s estate. the insolvency proceedings are still pending. on 8 august 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal complaining firstly about the fairness of the insolvency proceedings. further, he requested the constitutional court to adopt a decision obliging the respondent state to pay from its own funds his unpaid salaries. in particular, the applicant had referred only to the judgment which had been adopted in his favour on 10 february 2009. in so doing, the applicant also relied on the court’s case-law related to the non-enforcement of domestic court decision rendered against socially-owned companies in serbia. on 31 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power of the insolvency court to enable the payments of the claims recognized in the insolvency proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in vienna. he worked as a civil servant for the ministry of economics and labour (bundesministerium für wirtschaft und arbeit). on 23 august 2004 the disciplinary prosecutor (disziplinaranwalt) of the ministry of economics and labour reported to the disciplinary council (disziplinarkommission) of the ministry of economics and labour that it suspected the applicant of having committed disciplinary offences. furthermore, the applicant had allegedly placed orders without consulting the ministry and asking for permission beforehand. he had thereby caused damage amounting to around 200,000 euros (eur). he had therefore breached his official duties (verletzung der dienstpflicht). in his submissions of 7 september 2004, the applicant contested these accusations. on 30 december 2004 the appeals commission at the federal chancellery (berufungskommission beim bundeskanzleramt) allowed the appeal of the disciplinary prosecutor and quashed the decision by the disciplinary council. on 25 january 2005 the disciplinary council decided to institute disciplinary proceedings against the applicant. on 11 october 2005, the vienna public prosecutor informed the applicant that criminal investigations against him on the grounds of suspected embezzlement had been discontinued. meanwhile, on 20 december 2005, the disciplinary council had decided to summon the applicant to an oral hearing and specified the offences of which he was accused, namely the breach of official duties. on 28 february 2006 the appeals commission dismissed the applicant’s appeal against this decision. it held that the applicant was suffering from a personality disorder, was not able to exercise his official duties and was therefore unfit for service. on 28 june 2006 the disciplinary council convicted the applicant of breach of official duties and imposed the disciplinary penalty of loss of all his rights and entitlements from his public employment. on 20 july 2006 the appeals commission rejected the applicant’s request for re-opening of 24 march 2006 (see paragraph 16 above). meanwhile, on 23 october 2007, the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the decision of the ministry of economics and labour of 7 april 2006, and the applicant’s compulsory retirement became final (see paragraph 17 above). on 20 june 2008 the disciplinary council again convicted the applicant of breach of official duties and imposed as punishment the loss of all his rights. thereupon the disciplinary council held oral hearings on 27 april, 5 and 18 may, 3, 4 and 10 june and 1 july 2009. the disciplinary prosecutor appealed against this decision. by judgment of the vienna court of appeal of 25 may 2011 concerning the official liability proceedings instituted by the applicant, he was awarded eur 4,608, corresponding to the costs of his appeals against the disciplinary council’s decisions of 28 june 2006 and 20 june 2008 (see paragraphs 19 and 26 above), which were both quashed by the appeals commission due to procedural errors and lack of reasoning (see paragraphs 22 and 27 above).
the state authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. the flat at 21-110 belovezhskaya ulitsa, moscow, was owned by k. on 5 january 2005 k. died intestate with no surviving kin. on 28 october 2005 m. sold the flat to o. 8. on 19 april 2006 v. sold the flat to the applicant and his minor daughter. on an unspecified date the police opened an investigation into the fraudulent sale of the flat after k.’s death. on an unspecified date the housing department brought an action against the applicant seeking the transfer of the title to the flat to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction. on 16 may 2013 the city court refused to allow the applicants’ cassation appeal. on 24 december 2013 the city of moscow had its title to the flat registered. on 15 april 2011 the nagatinskiy district court of moscow approved a friendly settlement agreement between the applicant and her father recognising the applicant’s title to the flat. on 19 june 2013 the district court granted the housing department’s claims in full. the court established that s. had died intestate with no surviving kin and that the flat should have been considered bona vacantia. on 14 november 2013 the city court upheld the judgment of 19 june 2013 on appeal. the flat at 33-31, stremyanniy pereulok, moscow, had been owned by n., who died intestate with no surviving kin on 14 april 2006. on 30 november 2006 the notary issued a certificate confirming that p. had inherited n.’s flat. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. the court also found that the flat was bona vacantia which therefore vested in the state and, by having fraudulently acquired title to it and then sold it to the first applicant, p. had caused damage to the state. on 26 may 2014 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims. on 17 april 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation refused to allow the applicants’ cassation appeal. it appears that the judgment in the city’s favour has not been enforced to date. the applicants continue to reside in the flat.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in vladimir. in 2008 the applicant was indicted with fraud. on 21 march 2008 the frunzenskiy district court of vladimir (“the district court”) ordered temporary suspension of the applicant from the post of the chief accountant of municipal hospital no. at the same time, the district court awarded the applicant an allowance for the period of the suspension in the amount of five statutory monthly wages. the decision came into force on 1 april 2008. on 11 august 2009 the district court cancelled the suspension of the applicant from the office as no longer necessary. the decision came into force on 24 august 2009. on 12 july 2010 the presidium of the vladimir regional court (“the regional court”) quashed the decision of the district court of 21 march 2008 in the part concerning the monthly allowance. the presidium of the regional court found that while ordering the suspension and the allowance for the period of such suspension, the district court had failed to specify from which funds the allowance was payable, thus the decision of the district court in that part had remained unenforced. the case was remitted for a new examination. on 3 august 2010 the district court awarded the applicant monthly allowance for the period of her suspension from the office in the amount of 266,812.92 russian roubles. the allowance was to be paid from the federal budget. that decision was upheld on appeal on 22 september 2010. on 31 january 2011 the amount mentioned above was transferred to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 22 december 2009 the ankara magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the investigation file in accordance with article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no. on 9 february 2010 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of forming a criminal organisation and fraudulent use of credit cards. on 11 february 2010 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the presence of his lawyer and he was questioned at length about his telephone conversations that had been intercepted. the police read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations, and the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they did not prove that he was guilty. on 12 february 2010 the investigating judge questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer. the applicant denied that he was involved in a criminal organisation and submitted that the intercepted calls did not prove that he was guilty. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the risk of coercing some of the witnesses and victims. on various dates the applicant requested his release pending trial. these requests were dismissed by the courts, having regard to the nature of the offence with which the applicant was charged, the existence of a strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence in question, the state of the evidence, the risk of absconding and tampering with evidence as well as the time spent in detention. the applicant objected to these decisions. by decisions of 22 april 2010 and 20 october 2010 the appeal courts, without holding a hearing, rejected the applicant’s objections based on the information contained in the case file. upon his application, on 19 january 2011, the 26th chamber of ankara criminal court ordered the applicant’s release having regard to the time he spent in detention.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in bucharest. as an officer in a sub‑unit of the special anti-terrorist unit within the special forces for state security (hereinafter “the securitate”), the applicant participated in the events which commenced in bucharest on 21 december 1989 and led to the fall of the ceausescu dictatorship on 22 december 1989. the applicant was arrested by army forces and held in detention from 22 december until 23 december 1989. during this period of time, he was subjected to ill-treatment and, as a result, he suffered depression and he was placed on the officers reserve list on the grounds of poor health (see paragraphs 8 - 13 below). on 29 april 1990 the applicant filed a criminal complaint with the military prosecutor, alleging that he had been ill-treated and illegally detained in the securitate building and requesting the punishment of various officials, including the unit’s commander, g.a. the military prosecutor questioned the defendants and a large number of witnesses during the criminal investigation and gathered medical evidence. on 2 december 1993 the military prosecutor found that the unit’s commander g.a. on 2 march 1995 the military prosecutor decided not to initiate criminal proceedings against the doctor p.i. on the ground that the constituent elements of the alleged offence were not present. following the applicant’s appeal, this decision was set aside by a decision of 25 september 1996 and the investigation continued. on 21 october 1997 the military prosecutor found doctor p.i. liable to pay an administrative fine; however, the type of offence he committed had been pardoned by a decree of july 1997. the criminal case related to the other defendants, the securitate officers, was severed into separate proceedings. on 20 february 1998 and 16 february 1999 the military prosecutor decided not to initiate criminal proceedings against some of the defendants as the applicant’s complaint had become partly statute-barred. the investigation into crimes allegedly committed by three of the defendants was severed and jurisdiction was relinquished to the prosecuting authorities at the high court of cassation and justice in order to be joined to the main criminal investigation into the events of december 1989. on 27 june 2005 and 23 august 2007 the applicant was heard as a witness and as a civil party in the main criminal investigation. the most important procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation are summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011), and alecu and others v. romania (nos. 56838/08 and 80 others, §§ 10-13, 27 january 2015). the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in calaraseuca. on 27 july 2005 the applicant was stopped by the traffic police for speeding. by an order of 5 september 2005 the traffic police fined the applicant 60 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of some 4 euros (eur) at the time). the applicant did not challenge the police order. as the applicant failed to pay the fine, on an unspecified date a bailiff applied to the ocnita district court to have the fine converted into thirty days’ administrative detention, under article 26 § 5 of the code of administrative offences (see paragraph 14 below). according to the bailiff, the applicant had been ordered to pay the fine by 28 february 2006; however, he had failed to do so and had thus acted in bad faith. on 26 may 2006, at a hearing conducted without the presence of the parties, the ocnita district court accepted the bailiff’s request and ordered the applicant’s administrative detention for a period of thirty days. the document constituting the court’s decision was a pre-printed template which the judge had completed by hand with the specific details of the case, such as the names of the judge, the applicant and the bailiff, the relevant dates, the amount of the fine, the applicant’s address and the number of days of detention to be served by the applicant. it did not contain any indication that the applicant had been summoned to appear at the hearing. at 8 a.m. on 12 june 2006 the applicant was arrested at home and placed in detention. at about 5 p.m. the same day he suffered a heart attack and was taken by ambulance to a hospital. he recovered shortly thereafter and was soon discharged from hospital. on 16 june 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal against the ocnita district court’s decision of 26 may 2006, arguing, inter alia, that he had not been summoned to appear at the hearing of 26 may 2006, that he had had no knowledge of the decision of 26 may 2006 prior to his arrest, and that he had not been given a chance to contest the court’s decision before being placed in detention. the applicant also argued that the traffic police’s order of 5 september 2005 imposing a fine on him for speeding had been abusive because the police had no evidence to prove that it had been his car which had been caught speeding and not other cars on the road. on 30 august 2006 the balti court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, finding that the applicant had not challenged the traffic police’s order of 5 september 2005 within the statutory time-limit. the court of appeal did not respond to the applicant’s argument about the failure to summon him to the hearing of 26 may 2006. it does not appear from the materials of the case that the applicant served the rest of the detention term.
the applicant, mr gökhan aydın, is a turkish national who was born in 1983. he was detained in tekirdağ f-type prison at the time of the introduction of the application with the court. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 11 november 2002 the applicant was taken into custody by police officers from the anti-terrorist branch of the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of membership of tkp/ml-tikko, an illegal organisation. on 14 november 2002 the istanbul state security court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 26 december 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment charging the applicant and ten other persons with attempting to undermine the constitutional order, an offence prescribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code. 5190 of 16 june 2004, the case against the applicant was transferred to 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court. during the proceedings, the first-instance courts examined the applicant’s continued detention at the end of every hearing, either on their own motion or upon the applicant’s request. on 25 december 2007, at the end of the hearing and in the presence of the applicant, the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court ordered the applicant’s continued detention. on 27 december 2007 the 11th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed his objection without holding an oral hearing and relying on the public prosecutor’s opinion which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 24 march 2009 the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to life imprisonment. this decision was upheld by the court of cassation and became final on 20 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in şanlıurfa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 22 july 2008 the applicant was dismissed from her post of officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules and immoral behavior. on 14 august 2008 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of her dismissal. on 16 june 2009 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 29 september 2009 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in riga. a record of the operation (pārbaudes akts), dated 11 june 2004 and signed by four police officers and the applicant, stated, inter alia:“given that company baltijas elektronikas izstrādes has been registered at [the applicant’s] address, and that the applicant himself lives at that address, [the applicant] voluntarily agreed that the apartment be subjected to an inspection (apskate) and to show the tools used to fabricate the medicaments.” later, four police officers from the organised crime department, an expert and officers from the police press centre arrived. the inspection was video-recorded and photographs were taken; the seized items were packed and sealed. the above inspection record was written on a standard form with a pre-typed text according to which the inspection had been carried out under articles 179-183 of the code of criminal procedure. contrary to what was indicated in the decisions adopted by the internal security office of the state police, the applicant did not appeal against those decisions to a higher official within the state police hierarchy. the decision further stated that on arriving at the address of the company registered at the applicant’s apartment, the police officers had had no intention of drawing up an administrative offence record. the latter had been drawn up only after the examination of all the evidence seized during the inspection. therefore the code of criminal procedure could not have been violated. the applicant did not appeal against the decision. he also requested that the seized items be returned to him. the prosecutor’s reply was amenable to appeal to a higher prosecutor. on 5 april 2005 the applicant was offered to receive back a computer hard drive seized in 2004. the computer was added to the materials of the criminal case. on 25 august 2009 a prosecutor from the office of the prosecutor general dismissed the applicant’s request to institute criminal proceedings in respect of the conduct of the police officers. meanwhile, in august 2009 and again in august 2010 the applicant claimed compensation for non-pecuniary damage from the office of the prosecutor general on the basis of the alleged unlawful activities of police officers on 11 june 2004. the applicant appears to have appealed against that decision to the administrative courts. among other things, the applicant complained that an unlawful search and seizure had been carried out at his home on 11 june 2004. it was also noted that the fine was the lowest possible for an individual person. the decision was upheld at three levels of the administrative jurisdiction and came into force in june 2009.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in yerevan. the applicant is a former employee of a state revenue committee (hereinafter “the committee”). in particular, it decided to declare the order of 27 february 2009 void. by a decision of 7 october 2009 the civil court of appeal rejected the appeal and upheld the district court’s judgment. on 2 november 2009 the committee lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of 7 october 2009 with the court of cassation. on 9 december 2009 the court of cassation decided to declare the appeal inadmissible for lack of merit, so the judgment of 11 august 2009 became final. on 5 february 2010 the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings. on the same date he decided to oblige the committee to comply with the requirements of the writ within two weeks. the applicant sent several letters to the committee and to different officials, complaining that no measures had been taken to enforce the final judgment of 11 august 2009 and requesting that the committee be compelled to comply with that judgment. in particular, the applicant could not be reinstated because his previous position was no longer vacant. on 25 july 2011 the applicant contested the bailiff’s decision before the administrative court. by a judgment of 16 october 2012 the administrative court decided to grant the applicant’s claim in respect of the payments for his forced absence, stating that the period should be calculated up to 15 december 2011, the day on which that particular unit of the committee had ceased to exist. on 9 november 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of the administrative court. on 19 april 2013 the bailiff decided to reopen the enforcement proceedings. three days later, via telephone, the applicant was again invited to the committee, but he failed to appear. he claimed that the compensation for his forced absence should amount to amd 9,975,970. in response, the committee informed the applicant that it would consider the above-mentioned sum if the applicant submitted substantiating calculations. on 22 july 2015 the applicant appealed to the administrative court, requesting that the bailiff’s decision be quashed. on 22 may 2016 the administrative court allowed the applicant’s appeal and quashed the bailiff’s decision of 18 june 2015. that judgment became final on 26 may 2016.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in petroşani. according to a forensic medical certificate issued on 28 june 2007, the applicant had numerous bruises on her face, arms, back and thorax, which required five to six days of medical care. on 8 september 2007 the applicant was again physically assaulted by her husband. after the arrival of the police, she was taken to hospital by ambulance. she was diagnosed with an open facial trauma and a contusion of the nasal pyramid. had locked the applicant out of their joint residence. on 3 august and 2 october 2007 the applicant lodged complaints with the prosecutor’s office attached to the petroşani district court, alleging that she had been physically assaulted by her husband in their home, in the presence of their children, on 24 june, and 3 and 8 september 2007. she also mentioned that he had told the children not to speak about it. he stated that he had argued with the applicant over their divorce, but had not laid a hand on her. who had moved out of their apartment and had taken two of the children with him, had threatened to kill her when they had accidentally met on the street a week before. and imposed an administrative fine of 200 romanian lei (ron) (approximately 50 euros (eur)) on him. as regards the alleged threats, it was considered that the applicant had failed to prove her accusations. the applicant’s complaint against that decision was rejected as ill‑founded on 25 march 2008 by the superior prosecutor. she alleged that the administrative fine, which n.c. in the last paragraph of her submission, the applicant stated that she feared for her life and asked the court to “punish [n.c.] explained that on 8 september 2007 the applicant had been drunk and had threatened him with a knife. before 2007, my mother used to drink alcohol, but it was within normal limits, and in 2007 she stopped drinking. was a violent person who continued to assault her, even after being punished with an administrative fine by the prosecutor on 19 december 2007. a similar request was sent by the applicant to the police on 11 april 2008. the prosecutor found that it could not be considered a formal complaint because, unlike the other complaints, it did not refer to a specific assault.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in samobor. on 20 april 2009 she sustained an injury in a car accident while returning home from work. on 8 may 2009 her injury was recognised as a work-related injury by the croatian health insurance fund for health protection at work (hrvatski zavod za zdravstveno osiguranje zaštite zdravlja na radu). on the basis of her work-related injury the applicant was granted sick leave between 21 april 2009 and 3 july 2009. there it was established that she was suffering from a severely sore spine with a deformity. on 3 november 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint against her general practitioner’s assessment of the reason for her sick leave. she argued that she should be granted sick leave entitlement on the basis of the work-related injury that she had sustained on 20 april 2009. she submitted medical documentation in support of her argument. on 6 december 2011 an authorised doctor of the zagreb office of the croatian health insurance fund (hrvatski zavod za zdravstveno osiguranje, područni ured zagreb – hereinafter “the zagreb office”), specialised in physical medicine and rehabilitation, examined the applicant’s medical documentation and reported finding no direct causal link between the work-related injury sustained by the applicant in 2009 and the sick leave she had begun on 27 october 2011. the applicant availed herself of that right and asked for a written decision. on 5 april 2012 the central office, relying on the findings of the medical commission, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the zagreb office. she requested that she be heard and that an expert medical report on the matter be obtained. on 27 june 2012 the central office submitted a response to the applicant’s administrative action. this response was forwarded to the applicant. on 27 august 2012 the zagreb administrative court held a public hearing, to which the applicant was duly summoned. she did not attend the hearing, but was represented by a lawyer. her lawyer reiterated the arguments adduced and evidence proposed in the administrative action. the representative of the central office contested this. it stressed, in particular, that two expert medical bodies of the fund, as well as the applicant’s chosen general practitioner, had established without a doubt that the applicant’s sick leave beginning on 27 october 2011 was not linked to the work-related injury she had sustained in 2009. on 6 february 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in beveren. the proactive investigation included using the special investigative method of infiltration. pursuant to articles 47septies § 1 and 47nonies § 1 cic, a separate confidential case file was established (see paragraphs 47-49 below). that report was followed by two more reports on 18 september 2008, one on the infiltration and the other on the observation operation, describing the evidence specifically gathered by means of those two special investigative measures. the three reports were added to the criminal file, which was subsequently to be made accessible to the defendants. on 18 september 2008 the public prosecutor requested the investigating judge of the hasselt court of first instance to instigate a judicial investigation. a “traditional” reactive investigation ensued, conducted by the investigating judge. in addition to the observation and infiltration operations, recourse was had to phone-tapping and international mutual legal assistance. the observation and infiltration operations ended on 14 june 2009. by written submissions of the federal prosecutor of 29 december 2009, the indictments division of the antwerp court of appeal was instructed to verify, pursuant to article 235ter cic, the conformity of the confidential file with the evidence contained in the criminal case file and to ensure that there were no irregularities (see paragraphs 50-54 below). those reports of 17 and 18 september 2008 also confirm that the ‘maximum’ limit of the proactive investigation was complied with. it was thus found, on the one hand, that the overview of the case had been sufficiently established, and on the other, that sufficiently serious indications had been obtained to instigate a reactive investigation. that appeal was dismissed by judgment of the court of cassation on 21 september 2010. in the present case this aspect is especially important given that the infiltration continued over several years and that friendly links had grown up between the agents and several defendants and their partners. during the preliminary investigation photographs of the undercover agents were apparently published on the internet to alert others to their undercover status. the indictments division, which is an independent tribunal, held that the reports corresponded to the confidential file. this information shows that there was no incitement to crime. it added that it only ascribed relative evidentiary value to the statements of the undercover agents, and that the truth and proof of guilt had also been established on the basis of other evidence. before the trial court, the defendant can also draw on the criminal file to put forward any legal arguments he may wish against the investigative methods used. as regards the face-to-face meeting with the undercover agents, the court of cassation primarily adduced the following:“article 6 § 3 (d) of the [convention] secures the defendant’s right to examine or have examined witnesses against him and to obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf; that provision does not prevent the judge from using his unfettered discretion to assess the necessity and relevance of hearing a witness who has been requested and to reject such request, unless that rejection violated the parties’ right to present evidence.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bratislava. he is and at the relevant time was a supreme court judge. the judicial council of the slovak republic is the supreme governing body of the judiciary in slovakia. under article 141a of the constitution (law no. of the remaining seventeen members, eight were elected by judges and three were appointed by each the national council of slovakia, the president of slovakia, and the government of slovakia. on 8 september 2009, sitting it the above mentioned composition, the judicial council decided under section 22(1) and (2) of the judges and assessor judges act (law no. as amended – “the act”) to suspend (dočasné pozastavenie výkonu funkcie sudcu) the applicant in the exercise of his function with immediate effect. under section 22(7) of the act, the decision to suspend him entailed a 50% reduction in the applicant’s salary for the duration of the disciplinary proceedings. the withheld part of the applicant’s salary might or might not be restored to him, depending on the outcome of the disciplinary proceedings (section 22(8) and (9) of the act). on 25 november 2009 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it noted that the applicant’s applications before the judicial council and administrative tribunals were still pending and considered that, under the principle of subsidiarity, his constitutional complaint was accordingly premature. as to the applicant’s submission to the judicial council, its president responded to it in a letter of 27 january 2010 informing the applicant that the law did not allow for decisions of the council to be challenged by means of appeals to the council and that its decisions were reviewable by administrative tribunals. on 17 june 2011 the applicant lodged a fresh complaint with the constitutional court, alleging a breach of article 6 § 1 of the convention on account of the ordinary courts’ decisions, as detailed above. it held that the supreme court had given sound reasons for its decision, and its decision was not arbitrary or otherwise contrary to the applicant’s right to a fair hearing. according to a communication from the judicial council dated 6 august 2016, submitted and relied on by the government, the applicant had addressed various submissions to the council, but had never requested it to lift his temporary suspension, pursuant to section 22(5) of the act (as applicable at the relevant time – see paragraph 24 below). the disciplinary charges against the applicant fell to be determined by the supreme court, sitting as a disciplinary tribunal. on 9 may 2011 the minister of justice withdrew the application to discipline the applicant. on that ground the supreme court discontinued the disciplinary proceedings against the applicant on 13 may 2011. the applicant challenged that decision by way of an appeal, only to withdraw it on 11 august 2011. the decision thus became final on 27 september 2011.
the first applicant, mr kęstutis matiošaitis, was born on 3 february 1961 and is serving a life sentence at lukiškės prison (lukiškių tardymo izoliatorius – kalėjimas) in vilnius. under article 24 of the old criminal code, in force at the time, if the death penalty was imposed, the court could change it to life imprisonment (see “relevant domestic law”, paragraph 61 below). according to the prison administration, he had fully admitted his guilt but had not made serious resolutions. in particular, in 2010 a knife, sharpened pieces of tin, needles and other prohibited objects were found in his cell. he was then placed in a punishment cell for fifteen days. in 2012 the applicant submitted a pardon[1] plea to the president of the republic. his plea was rejected by the pardon commission at its meeting on 29 january 2013. as it transpires from the summary of his complaint by that court, k. matiošaitis argued that article 158 of the code for the execution of sentences, which prohibits life prisoners’ release on parole (see paragraph 69 below), was unconstitutional. in the character assessment report for 2012 drafted by the prison administration for the purpose of a pardon, it was further noted that the applicant had fully admitted his guilt and that no civil claims were outstanding against him. the third applicant, mr stanislovas katkus, was born on 26 october 1956 and is currently serving a life sentence in lukiškės prison. according to the government, the conviction was upheld by the higher courts. the applicant started serving his life sentence more than sixteen years ago, in october 2000. however, on 4 february 2004 the court of appeal refused to change the sentence of life imprisonment. he had also communicated with the prison psychologist. on 11 october 2001 the panevėžys regional court found the applicant guilty of aggravated murder and other crimes. following the adoption of the new criminal code, the applicant asked the court to reclassify his crimes and to commute his sentence. he had received no disciplinary punishments, but had been commended twice. he pointed out that life prisoners were a separate category of convict. after having served ten years in prison, they could ask for a milder detention regime – to be transferred to a correctional home. by a letter of 5 july 2013, the ministry of justice informed the third applicant, s. katkus, that on 22 december 2011 the seimas had amended the code for the execution of sentences, including its provisions on conditional release.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in szajol. the couple had one daughter, r.ó, born on 23 march 1994. on 24 march 2006 the couple divorced and agreed on custody of the child and other parental rights. moved out of the former family home and took up residence in budapest. the applicant could exercise contact on 25 and 26 june and 24 july 2006. the applicant applied to the szolnok county guardianship authority to have the contact agreement enforced. in a decision of 11 september 2006 it ordered ms n.r. subsequently, on a number of occasions ms n.r. was fined for not complying with the agreement. it appears from the case file that the applicant could exercise contact between 10 july 2007 and 10 november 2008. in a counterclaim the applicant requested that the child be placed in his custody. the applicant also filed a criminal complaint against ms n.r. in a judgment of 10 june 2008 the szolnok district court reduced the applicant’s contact with his daughter to every first and third saturday of the month from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. it held that the previously agreed form of contact was unlikely to be implemented and would only lead to further proceedings before the guardianship authority, which would be to the detriment of the child. the court based its judgment on an expert opinion finding that the child should have had an adaptation period to re-establish her relationship with her father. in 2009 the applicant failed to turn up at numerous scheduled meetings for months, for which he was fined huf 10,000 (approximately eur 35). in 2010 the applicant’s contact rights and the amount of child allowance were subject to further litigation. in particular, he had paid no heed to her request to travel by public transport instead of in his car. the applicant lodged a petition for review with the supreme court. on 12 december 2011 the budapest regional guardianship authority appointed the budapest xv district guardianship authority to deal with any further proceedings concerning the enforcement of the applicant’s contact rights, noting that at that point there were eight enforcement requests pending, the oldest dating back to january 2010. nonetheless, an additional request by him for the reimbursement of the child allowance he had already paid was dismissed at both levels of jurisdiction.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in rešetari. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. he worked as a driver in the company’s nova gradiška branch. after organisational changes within the company he was given notice of dismissal on 14 february 2000. pursuant to the notice his employment was terminated on 20 november 2000. on 27 november 2000 the applicant applied to the croatian employment bureau’s regional office in slavonski brod (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, područna služba slavonski brod, hereinafter “the slavonski brod bureau”), for unemployment benefit. the applicant then received unemployment benefit on a regular basis until 31 march 2008. on 5 october 2005 it also sought reimbursement of the severance pay the applicant had received. at the same time it ordered the applicant to reimburse the severance pay he had received, and dismissed the remainder of the employer’s counterclaim. on 15 february 2008 the slavonski brod county court (županijski sud u slavonskom brodu) reversed the first-instance judgment in the part ordering the applicant’s reinstatement and decided that his employment had been terminated on 23 january 2007. the applicant appealed to the central service of the croatian employment bureau (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, središnja služba, hereinafter “the central bureau”). it also noted that the applicant himself had informed the slavonski brod bureau of the outcome of the labour dispute, and had communicated with one of its officials on 27 march 2008 and 2 april 2008. he had also been informed of the consequences of the slavonski brod county court judgment setting 23 january 2007 as the day of the termination of his employment. in an administrative claim the applicant argued that he had only learned about the day of the termination of his employment after receiving the slavonski brod county court’s judgment in march 2008, and that the time-limit for lodging the unemployment benefit claim should have been calculated from that date. a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was dismissed by the constitutional court on 4 april 2012. the decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 9 may 2012. on 21 november 2008 the slavonski brod bureau found that the applicant had not been due unemployment benefit from 21 november 2000 to 31 march 2008. on 12 september 2014 the osijek administrative court dismissed an administrative claim by the applicant and upheld the administrative authorities’ decisions. on 18 august 2008 the fund granted him an early retirement pension of hrk 1,890.53 per month[2] from 11 july 2008. the applicant has been receiving that pension since.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in tiraspol. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). he was detained in custody until 8 july 2005 when he was released on bail. during detention he was allegedly detained in very poor conditions with persons with hiv and subjected to ill-treatment. he claims that a doctor infected him with hiv after using the same syringe on all the inmates. the applicant claims that no procedural guarantees were in place and suggests that the investigator indicated to the victim which picture to choose. according to the applicant, at the time of the alleged offence, he was in moscow. on 29 august 2006 the tiraspol district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. the applicant was placed in detention in tiraspol colony no. 2 where the conditions allegedly were very poor. in particular, his cell was overcrowded, he did not have daily walks, the material conditions were very poor, there were shortages of electricity sometimes for several days, and he shared space with detainees suffering from contagious diseases. the food was inedible and therefore detainees had to rely on the food supplied to them by their relatives. however, the prison authorities ignored his requests. on an unspecified date after his final conviction, the applicant’s mother engaged a lawyer with a view to lodging an application to the court. she later went to visit the applicant to obtain his signature on the application form. however, the prison guards refused to allow her to do so on the grounds that the application was not in russian and that it had to be authorised first by the prison authorities. it appears that she eventually succeeded in having the application form signed by the applicant. on 24 april 2012 the applicant was released from detention. it appears from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicant never informed the authorities of moldova about his detention in the “mrt” or about the criminal proceedings against him.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yaroslavl. on 19 february 2009 the applicant, former head of the department of pharmacology at the yaroslavl state medical academy, was arrested on suspicion of bribe-taking. on 20 february 2009 the leninskiy district court of yaroslavl (“the district court”) remanded the applicant in custody. during the crime-scene inspection on 19 february 2009, 500-rouble and 1,000‑rouble banknotes were discovered in various parts of the [applicant’s office], the origin of which [the applicant] explained as personal savings. on 16 april and 17 june 2009 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 19 june and 31 july 2009 respectively. he had confessed only in part and had refused to testify as either a suspect or an accused. he could therefore have access to information and documents which might be of interest to him. all of the above, as well as the position which the applicant had taken in the proceedings, gave the court grounds to believe that, if released, he might exert pressure on witnesses (the students at the medical academy), destroy evidence or otherwise interfere with the proceedings. lastly, the court held that, in view of the above circumstances, the custodial measure could not be replaced by a more lenient preventive measure. on 28 april and 3 july 2009 the regional court upheld the above decisions on appeal. however, it noted the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he was suspected of having committed a further fifteen similar offences and that three more criminal cases had been opened against him in that connection in february-march 2009, and the fact that on 29 july 2009 seventeen other criminal cases had been opened against him on suspicion of twenty-nine criminal offences. on 16 september 2009 the charges against the applicant were finalised to include twenty-six counts of bribe-taking and forgery of official documents under articles 290 § 2 and 292 § 1 of the russian criminal code. on 5 march 2009 the applicant asked the investigator to allow his wife to visit him in the remand prison. on 13 may, 10 june and 24 june 2009 the applicant applied for permission for his wife and daughter to visit him. on 2 july 2009 the district court found the decision of 15 june 2009 unlawful and obliged the investigator to grant the applicant’s request. on 24 july 2009 the investigator decided to allow the applicant’s wife to visit the applicant in the remand prison, but limited the visit to fifteen minutes. the decision further stipulated that the visit had to take place in the presence of the investigator. on 11 august 2009 the leninskiy district court found the decision of 24 july 2009, in so far as it limited the duration of the visit and imposed the presence of the investigator, unlawful. on 27 august 2009 the investigator decided to allow the applicant to see his wife. however, according to the applicant, it was never communicated to him or his wife.
the applicant was born in 1976 and, until his death in 2006, lived in vinnytsya. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], nos. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). on 28 june 2002 he was convicted in a final judgment by the “mrt” supreme court and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. according to the applicant, during his pre-trial detention he was subjected to ill-treatment to make him confess to committing the murder. after his conviction the applicant’s mother made many requests to various ukrainian official bodies to obtain the transfer of her son to a ukrainian prison. the case file before the court contains approximately forty replies received by her from various ukrainian authorities. however, her efforts were not successful. the ukrainian authorities also contacted the “mrt” authorities, but to no avail. in a letter to the applicant’s mother, the “mrt” authorities stated that they would only transfer the applicant to a ukrainian prison after the conclusion of a treaty between ukraine and the “mrt” which would make the transfer of prisoners possible. since ukraine refused to sign such a treaty with it, the transfer was not possible. it is not clear from the case file whether the “mrt” authorities reacted to that letter. in another letter sent to the applicant’s representative by the office of the president of the republic of moldova, the lawyer was informed that the moldovan authorities were unable to bring about the applicant’s transfer to a ukrainian prison while the transdniestrian conflict remained unsettled. the applicant’s mother also wrote to the osce mission in moldova, which informed her that her letter had been forwarded to the ukrainian embassy in chisinau. in around march 2006 the applicant broke his leg and was admitted to hospital. it appears from his mother’s statements that she was able to spend time with him during his stay in hospital. on 24 may 2006 the applicant was found hanged in the gym of the prison in which he was being detained. it does not appear that the applicant’s mother requested or obtained a medical forensic report concerning the circumstances of his death. however, it appears from her statements that the applicant did not have any signs of violence on his body.
the applicants, mr ernest vardanean and ms irina vardanean, are moldovan nationals who were born in 1980 and live in chisinau. the background to the case, including the transdniestrian armed conflict of 1991-1992 and the subsequent events, is set out in ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia ([gc], no. 48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii) and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], nos. 43370/04, 8252/05 and 18454/06, §§ 8-42, echr 2012). the applicants are husband and wife and are journalists. at the time of the events they were living in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (the “mrt”). the first applicant was employed by a russian news agency and by a moldovan newspaper. a search was carried out in the applicants’ apartment and many of their belongings – such as pictures, computers and a bank card – were seized. on 16 december 2010, a tribunal from the “mrt” convicted the first applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. following international pressure, on 5 may 2011 the president of the “mrt” pardoned him. after that date, the applicant and his family moved to chisinau. during his detention the first applicant met on several occasions with representatives of the “mrt” secret services, including the chief of the secret services, and was led to believe that his family might suffer if he refused to cooperate with them. he was asked to record a video of himself admitting having worked for the moldovan secret services. that video was aired on transdniestrian television. he subsequently was given to understand by representatives of the “mrt” secret services that the letter had served the purpose of creating tensions between chisinau and western countries and that the whole matter, including his arrest, was being coordinated from moscow. the second applicant could only visit the first applicant on a limited number of occasions during his detention and lawyers representing the first applicant in the proceedings before the court were denied access to him on the grounds that they were not members of the “transdniestrian bar association”. in the meantime, the moldovan authorities made numerous attempts to secure the first applicant’s release. the moldovan delegation distributed a circular letter during the april 2010 session of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and raised the first applicant’s situation during meetings of the committee of ministers of the council of europe in january and february 2011. the first applicant’s situation was also raised by the moldovan authorities in their discussions with the osce representatives in chisinau, and a criminal investigation was initiated by the moldovan prosecutor’s office in respect of the applicant’s detention in the “mrt”. however, the criminal investigation was later discontinued.
the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in vadul lui voda. on 22 february 2002 at 7 a.m. the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. she was released at 4.40 p.m. on the same day after a court had found that her detention had been abusive and had ordered her release. in the meantime, during her detention, the applicant was subjected to ill-treatment by the police. in particular, she was punched and strangled. after release, the applicant went to a hospital, where she was diagnosed with concussion and multiple bruises on her head and neck. she lodged a criminal complaint in relation to the above-mentioned facts; however, it was not successful. on an unspecified date, the applicant initiated civil proceedings against the state, claiming compensation for unlawful detention and ill‑treatment. by a final judgment of 9 august 2012, the supreme court of justice found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 3 and 5 of the convention, on account of her unlawful detention and ill-treatment on 22 february 2002. the supreme court also found a breach of the applicant’s rights, as guaranteed by articles 6 and 13 of the convention, on account of the length and ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation conducted into the applicant’s complaints of abusive actions on the part of the police. the supreme court awarded her 3,200 euros (eur) in compensation.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in khachmaz. ’s body, the cartridge, the pen and the note were taken. i commit suicide because i don’t want to be a burden to anyone. had never been ill-treated during his military service. had been in a good mood and had told him that he had talked to his mother-in-law by telephone. replied to the investigator’s request of 24 november 2009. the report further found that the seam of the left pocket of z.b. on 14 november 2009 and submitted that z.b. had committed suicide because he had probably been in a state of depression. on 27 february 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the gazakh military court against the investigator’s decision of 9 february 2010, complaining of the ineffectiveness of the criminal investigation. he disputed the investigator’s conclusions relating to the suicide of his son, pointing out that z.b. had called his parents “ana” (mum) and “ata” (dad) or “mama” and “papa”. in those paragraphs, the investigator noted that the two soldiers questioned during the investigation had not remembered whether z.b. had not been proved during the investigation and that z.b. on 13 july 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint against that decision, reiterating his previous arguments. he also noted that the investigator’s decision of 18 june 2010 was almost identical in its wording to the previous decisions of the prosecuting authorities. the applicant lastly complained about the investigator’s failure to attach any importance to the letter dated 30 november 2009 from the head of the military counterintelligence department of military unit no. in august 2010 the investigator also questioned various soldiers, who denied any ill-treatment or harassment of z.b. in that connection, the investigator found that z.b. had not been confirmed during the investigation.
the applicants were born in 1978, 1980 and 2007 respectively. the first applicant came to bulgaria in 1997. in 2001 he was granted long-term resident status, and in 2003 – permanent resident status. in 2005 he married the second applicant, and in 2007 the third applicant, their son, was born. on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. factual grounds justifying the order were not indicated; it was merely noted that it was based on “proposal no. that proposal, drawn up by the national security service on 27 may 2008 and initially classified, was declassified in 2016 and has been submitted by the government. it stated that the first applicant was a member of a “russian criminal group” implicated in money laundering, extortion, smuggling, illegal arms deals and the financing of “terrorist groups” on the territory of the russian federation. it said further that the first applicant had lowered bulgaria’s international reputation, by “implicating the country in the financing of terrorist organisations, transnational criminality, corruption and drug trafficking”. no evidence was provided to substantiate those claims. on 12 june 2008 the first applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 29 may 2008. he denied the allegations against him and stated that his family resided in bulgaria and that the measures against him breached his convention rights. in addition, he presented a certificate that he had no criminal convictions in bulgaria. in a final judgment of 8 january 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review and held that the 29 may 2008 order was lawful. after summarising the allegations made in proposal no. b848, it held merely that they were sufficient to justify a conclusion that the first applicant represented a threat to national security. furthermore, it dismissed his arguments relating to his family life, considering that“any restriction of the rights under the convention is justified [when based] on national security considerations, in cases where foreign citizens’ behaviour threatens the national security and the public order of the state where they reside.” the first applicant was expelled on 24 april 2009. it is unclear whether the second and third applicants remained in bulgaria after that. in 2012 the first and second applicants had another child.
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in the small village of yamna, which forms part of yaremche, a resort town located in the carpathian mountains in the ivano-frankivsk region of ukraine. the house where she and her family lived was located some ten metres from the cemetery boundary. the applicant’s yard was separated from the cemetery by a wire mesh fence. the part of the cemetery captured on the pictures contained over fifty graves, some freshly decorated with wreaths. in hot weather unpleasant smells sometimes emanated from the cemetery. on 14 september 2000 yaremche’s sanitary officer banned burials in the new cemetery as its location was in breach of applicable sanitary standards. she noted, in particular, that the distance between her house and the cemetery was less than twenty-five metres. the applicant also claimed non-pecuniary damages for her sufferings. on 16 january 2003 the yaremche court found the decision of 25 june 2002 unlawful as the applicant’s house had been located within the sanitary health protection zone, which had been illegal. it ordered the executive committee to proscribe the burials. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. on 18 march 2004 the yaremche court found for the applicant in part. at the same time, the applicant’s claim for damages was rejected. the decision became final and enforcement proceedings were instituted. at many of its meetings the executive committee discussed draft decisions banning burials, however, they were never approved by a vote as no suitable alternative location for the cemetery could be found. on 28 february 2005 the enforcement proceedings were terminated because of the impossibility of enforcement as members of the council refused to vote against the burials. on 26 july 2005 the yaremche council informed the applicant that it had been unable to relocate the cemetery in view of the unavailability of other suitable land. it was further noted that they were continuing to look for alternatives and, in particular, were negotiating to acquire a plot from the yamna forestry authority. she suggested a specific house that was for sale at the material time, which, according to her, was comparable to her present house. however, the town had no funds in its budget to buy the proposed house at that time.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in lublin. on 10 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the cassation appeal as manifestly ill-founded. on 26 august 2009 the applicant encouraged other prisoners to start a hunger strike. the applicant then went on a hunger strike which lasted until 7 september 2009. he was punished by being placed in solitary confinement for fourteen days. between 17 november 2009 and 31 march 2010 the applicant was detained in the rzeszów remand centre. on the latter date he was transported back to lublin. the applicant’s behaviour during 2011 varied: he was sometimes rewarded for good behaviour and sometimes faced disciplinary measures. on 17 april 2012 the director of the lublin remand centre examined his complaint and found that the search had been performed in accordance with the law and that the applicant had not been debased or humiliated. on 5 june 2012 the applicant underwent a strip search which was accompanied by a search of his cell. the plan included the inspection of all the cells. he had also had difficulties getting undressed. on 9 august 2012 the remand centre director dismissed the complaint. the guards did not use offensive language and did not debase you. afterwards, he was again ordered to undergo a strip search. the applicant stated that he had intense pain in his spine on that day and could barely stand and had therefore refused to undergo the search. he arrived with three other guards and subjected the applicant to a strip search. the decision, issued by the deputy director of the lublin remand centre, said that the “applicant refused to undergo a strip search and only agreed to comply when the chief duty officer was called”. it also made no reference to his allegations that he had been left for about fifty minutes in a state of being unable to get dressed and that he had been forced to put his clothes on by someone letting freezing air into the room. on 12 september 2013 the lublin regional court, in view of the applicant’s state of health and his neurological and orthopaedic problems, granted him leave to undergo the operation outside prison.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in tomaszów mazowiecki. to account for his management of public funds. they appointed the applicant to be in charge of further action in that regard. on 7 october 2010 the applicant sent a document to the mayor of the tomaszów mazowiecki district (starosta powiatowy - “the district mayor”) entitled “petition” (wniosek - “the document”), which was signed by the applicant and three other residents of jadwigów who confirmed their agreement with the petition. it took me over one week to figure out a solution to this problem. the facts and circumstances are as follows. whose term in office was concluded on the election of the current local mayor, ms j. g., received grants for the benefit of the village from the commune and accepted payments from the lease of the village shop. during his term in office, he never asked the residents or the local council for what purpose the money should be used. i consider, therefore, that the petition and the request are both valid. the document was sent to the district mayor before local elections which took place on 21 november 2010 (wybory samorządowe). on an unspecified date the tomaszów mazowiecki commune council audit committee analysed the document. ’s involvement in matters such as the community hall refurbishment and running of the vfb. this included statements claiming that z.m., as chairman of the vfb, merely set the amount of rent to be paid each year. at the time, there were also building works being carried out in the same building. it was also established that the village had not received any funds directly from the commune. the court considered that the timing of the applicant’s actions proved that they had not served the public interest and had been motivated by his desire to win the elections. he had raised his concerns almost three years after the end of z.m. on 1 march 2012 the regional court issued a writ of enforcement in respect of its final judgment of 31 may 2011. on 18 october 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the latter judgment.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in rostov-on-don, russian federation. some time later, after a telephone call made from the odzun medical centre to the police station of the nearby town of tumanyan, four police officers, a.a., on the same date an inspection of the crime scene was conducted and a report produced, which included sketch maps. there were windows onto the porch on the left, and the main entrance was on the right, in front of the above‑mentioned passageway. the sketch map also noted the positions of seyran ayvazyan and police officer h.gev. death had occurred shortly after seyran ayvazyan being wounded. on 22 june 2006 a forensic examination report was released. the door was barricaded with an armchair and a wardrobe. then he took out another knife and threw it at the police officers. seyran ayvazyan was screaming loudly, but while the shots were being fired the others dragged him away from seyran ayvazyan and transported him to the hospital. at that time he was standing with his rifle next to the porch windows. then he heard seyran ayvazyan screaming and saw the others come out of the house and seyran ayvazyan, with a knife in his hand, run towards and reach h.gev. ( he had tried to defend himself with a table, but seyran ayvazyan had managed to stretch his hand over it and stab h.gev., then seyran ayvazyan took out another knife and wanted to stab h.gev. at that moment the fire engine was spraying water at seyran ayvazyan, who had barricaded himself in with a wardrobe and moved the wardrobe to protect himself from the water. were asked whether they had received an order to shoot before they had entered the house (both: negative). the wording of the decision first outlined the facts, as established by the investigation (see paragraphs 7-12 above), and concluded that the police officers had employed their service weapons in the light of the exigencies of the situation for the purpose of repelling a life-threatening attack on police officer h.gev. as to the finding of a grenade in seyran ayvazyan’s house, an.a stated that this could not serve as justification for the police officers’ actions, since it had been discovered only after the fatal incident had taken place, and her brother had never threatened the policemen that he would use it. on 4 march 2008 the court of cassation declared the appeal admissible. in particular, two of the six officers who had been present at the time of the shooting, namely g.m.
from 2004 until 16 january 2012 he was minister (landesrat) of the regional government of carinthia (kärntner landesregierung). the majority of its shares were held by landesholding until 2006. they said that landesholding should pay that fee. according to a note of 7 march 2008 written by a lawyer appointed by the second and the third applicant, they tried to persuade the privately commissioned expert in a telephone conversation to make several changes to his report and to declare that the fees were reasonable. the expert was then asked to amend his report and in march 2008 he concluded that a fee of eur 6,000,000 could be considered reasonable considering the fees generally charged by investment banks. the carinthian branch of the social democratic party of austria (spӧ kärnten) and r.h., the procurator general’s office transferred the file to the public prosecutor’s office for crimes of corruption (korruptionsstaatsanwaltschaft) (“the ksta”). the report stated that the services provided by d.b. could in part be seen as those of an investment bank. commented on the private expert reports submitted by the second applicant. on 19 december 2011 the second applicant commented on that expert report. on 21 march 2012 the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the second applicant and the third applicant for breach of trust under article 153 of the criminal code and the first applicant and d.b. for aiding and abetting in breach of trust. on 18 july 2012 the third applicant asked the court not to include the expert report of f.s. was a professional lawyer and university professor in germany and not registered in austria as an expert for book-keeping, cost accounting or financial auditing in the list of court appointed experts and therefore lacked the necessary expert knowledge for assessing whether the remuneration of d.b. as regards the argument that he had answered questions of assessment of evidence and questions of law in the preliminary proceedings, the court found that, even assuming that this had been the case, such statements had to be disregarded by the court. in the negotiation process only corresponded to fees in the amount of eur  300,000 and that the second applicant and the third applicant had been aware of that fact but had breached their obligation of diligence by authorising the payment of eur 6 million to d.b. article 126 § 4 of the ccp did not exclude a challenge for bias, except when it was merely argued with the fact that the expert had been appointed previously in the preliminary proceedings. criminal law (perjury) as well as the provisions on challenge for bias would ensure that his or her findings and conclusions were in accordance with the law. would accept the task of drawing up an expert report and subsequent contacts consisted in supplementing the case file which had been transmitted to f.s.
the applicants were born in 1932, 1929, 1965 and 1956 respectively and live in sofia. on 15 january 1968 the second applicant, together with the antecedents of the other applicants, bought from the then existing local agricultural co-operative a plot of land situated on the outskirts of sofia measuring 953 square metres. until 2002 the applicants or their antecedents enjoyed undisturbed possession of that land. on 10 may 2002 a group of persons, the heirs of mr t.s., brought against the applicants a rei vindicatio action, stating that the plot of land was theirs. they stated that the plot, once the property of their antecedents, had been collectivised in the years after 1945, but had been returned to them within the context of the process of the restitution of agricultural land by a decision of the relevant body, the local land commission, dated 27 december 1999. they claimed that under section 10(13) of the agricultural land act (see paragraph 13 below), the fact that the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ antecedents had purchased the land in 1968 could not be held against them. initially, the sofia district court (its judgement is undated) dismissed the action against the applicants. on 5 november 2009 the sofia city court overturned that ruling, allowed the rei vindicatio claim and ordered the applicants to surrender possession of the plot. it found in particular that the land commission’s decision of 27 december 1999 was sufficient to render the claimants the owners of the disputed land. it pointed out that of the two rival claims to the same plot the law – namely section 10(13) of the agricultural land act – gave priority to the one based on restitution, and thus had the effect of rendering devoid of any legal force the contract under which the second applicant and the remaining applicants’ predecessors had bought the plot. in a final decision of 18 june 2010 the supreme court of cassation declined to entertain a cassation appeal by the applicants. on an unspecified date soon after that the applicants surrendered possession of the plot.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in turkey. in the same year, his grandparents, who had been looking after him while his father had been working, moved to turkey and took the applicant and his sister with them. the applicant lived in turkey from 1992 until 1998, attending school there for three years. in 1998, when he was eight years old, he and his sister moved back to austria to live with their father again. they also stole money and cigarettes from their victim. on 20 january 2005 the applicant attempted to shoplift. two of the women were seriously injured as a result. he was sentenced to one year’s imprisonment, which was suspended for a probationary period of three years. it argued in its reasoning that the applicant had taken a leading role in the robberies. the applicant and his friends had deliberately targeted elderly women because they had expected they would not resist. moreover, the criminal court found that the applicant had been one of the main perpetrators, which is why there was no leeway to pronounce a more lenient sentence than two and a half years’ imprisonment. it found that even though most of his family lived in austria, the applicant’s expulsion was justified because of the severity of his offences in order to protect public order and security. because of his young age he would not be able to live in turkey by himself. on 16 march 2007 the vienna security authority (sicherheitsdirektion) partly granted his appeal and limited the exclusion order to eight years. this was however put into perspective by the fact that he had not offended only once, but multiple times, and in a particularly brutal manner. his probation officer (bewährungshelfer) testified that the applicant had developed a sense of justice after his conviction and that cooperation with him had worked well. the iap noted furthermore that the applicant had not reoffended in over a year since his release from prison. 1638/03, echr 2008), it found that – in contrast to maslov – the applicant had repeatedly committed serious crimes of a violent nature. he spoke turkish and had last visited turkey in 2001. on 8 september and 17 november 2009 and on 4 january 2010 the applicant was informed of the possibility to leave the country voluntarily.
the applicants were born in 1977 and 1979 respectively and live in tbilisi and tskaltubo. at 5.15 p.m. that day, 13 may 2004, the investigator formally charged the first applicant with attempted murder, based on his confession, and, without informing the latter of his right to call in a lawyer of his own choice, assigned a public defence lawyer to him; according to the case materials, that public lawyer was dismissed by the applicant on 4 june 2004 (see paragraph 23 below), and, in general, the latter replaced his defence lawyers several times as the criminal proceedings unfolded. according to statements subsequently given to the investigative authorities by the first applicant’s wife, she attended the hearing on 16 may 2004 and noticed that her husband’s nails had been bitten down and were blackened and that he had bandages on his wrists which he attempted to hide under his pullover. 7 on 16 may 2004, the first applicant was examined by the prison doctor, who noted in a report that there were no marks of violence on his body. between july and august 2004 the second applicant lodged several more complaints with the city prosecutor about the investigator’s repeated refusals to check the first applicant’s alibi. notably, an x-ray of his head, taken only from one side, and an x-ray of his thorax showed that at that time he bore no signs of lesions on those parts of the body. on 21 october 2004 the first applicant’s lawyer informed the investigator that his client wished to be questioned again. he complained of having been coerced into accepting sh.dz. as his lawyer and that his sole purpose had been to sign witness statements for the investigator. in his view, a request by the applicants to be released on bail had to be rejected for the same reasons. he had also been beaten on the neck with a square padlock. when questioned by an investigator of the inspectorate general of the cppo on 13 october 2004, the first applicant stood by his allegations that he had been tortured by the police officers on 13 may 2004. when questioned by the trial court, the woman and son who had allegedly handed in the weapon used to commit the crime to the police on 25 february 2004, according to the official version of events contained in the case file (see paragraph 8 above), stated that they had never handed in such a gun to the police. on the contrary, it had been the police who had suddenly come to her house, and had searched for and found the psm pistol in the yard. when questioned by the trial court, the two witnesses to the reconstruction of the crime on 13 may 2004 stated that they had been stopped by police officers in the vicinity of the main police station. one of the men who took part in the identification parade where the first applicant had been identified by the victim on 13 may 2004 told the court that he had been approached at random in the street by the police to take part in the line-up. the applicant had looked exhausted and had had a deep bruise around one eye. however, the time, place or circumstances of sustaining the injuries had not been established. in the trial court’s opinion, the same evidence as used against the first applicant had proven the charge of attempted murder against the second applicant (see the preceding paragraph):(i)  the written record of the first applicant’s confession during the reconstruction at the scene of the crime on 13 may 2004; and(ii)  the member of parliament’s statements concerning the private talk he had had with the first applicant on 13 may 2004. as far as the alleged ill‑treatment was concerned, the criminal chamber affirmed that it was not in dispute that the first applicant had had marks of violence on his person.
the applicants were born in 1970, 1973, 1999, 2001 and 2007 respectively. the court has not been informed of their current place of residence. the first and second applicants, a married couple, arrived in bulgaria in 1997. their three children, the remaining applicants, were born in that country. all members of the family were granted permanent resident permits. in 2005 the first applicant bought a flat in sofia, where the family lived. on 29 may 2008 the head of the national security service issued an order withdrawing the first applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re‑entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. that proposal, drawn up by the national security service on 27 may 2008 and initially classified, was declassified on 22 february 2016 and has been submitted by the government. it also stated that he was being searched on the territory of the russian federation and that his actions lowered the prestige and the interests of the bulgarian state. the document claimed, in addition, that the first applicant had been implicated in extortion, drug trafficking, smuggling, money laundering and other criminal activities. no evidence was provided to substantiate those claims, even though the document referred to some specific facts. on 12 june 2008 the first applicant applied for judicial review of the expulsion order. during the ensuing proceedings the applicant and his representative were shown proposal no. in a final judgment of 20 december 2008 the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review. after summarizing the claims made in proposal no. b849, it held briefly that it was bound by them. thus, in its view“it should be concluded that the presence and the activity of the [first applicant] amount to a serious threat to national security and to the international prestige of the republic of bulgaria.” that decision was quashed in a judgment of the sofia administrative court of 17 july 2008. the first applicant effectively remained in detention from 10 september 2008 to the date of his expulsion, 3 september 2009. the other applicants remained for several more years in bulgaria, but left in november 2015.
the first applicant, franz-olivier giesbert, is the publication director of the magazine le point. the second applicant, hervé gattegno, is a journalist with le point. mrs liliane bettencourt, principal shareholder of the group l’oréal, is one of the richest individuals in france. she sought and obtained the inclusion in the case file of material and reports from the preliminary investigation. the case initiated by the private prosecution was first set down for hearing on 3 september 2009, then on 11 december 2009. the developments in the case were widely reported in the press. did he take advantage of liliane bettencourt? [ the article was full of comments between inverted commas, presented as extracts from statements made to the investigators working under the public prosecutor. the first spoke of a “hold” over mrs bettencourt. in another box the journalist reported on the application for “judicial protection” filed by mrs bettencourt’s daughter and quoted an extract from the “report of neurologist p.a.”, a settling of family scores or the most perfect scam? the article ended with a small insert indicating that b. had refused to respond to le point, preferring to “reserve his answers for the judges”. in a judgment of 19 march 2010, the paris court of appeal upheld the decision of the court below, in the main, and raised the amount of the advance to eur 10,000, in addition to charging eur 5,000 for the costs of the appeal proceedings. the applicants appealed on points of law. it reiterated that the witness statements, “without engaging in any extensive interpretation of [section 38]”, could be characterised as procedural documents, even though the investigation had been discontinued: “the fact that they were transmitted at the request of the private prosecutor and not on the initiative of the public prosecutor is of little relevance in this connection because they support the prosecution case”. on 9 march 2010, b. brought proceedings against the applicants on the merits before the paris tribunal de grande instance seeking redress for the damage sustained on account of the publication of the articles of 10 december 2009 and 4 february 2010, in breach of section 38(1) of the 1881 act. in a judgment of 22 february 2012, the paris court of appeal overturned that judgment. it could be understood by the reader that b. was not telling the truth about mrs bettencourt’s mental health and that his guilt was “doubly suggested” in the introduction (citing an extract from the prosecution document, which fell under section 38) and in the conclusion. it added as follows:“... the reasoning given by the court below is tantamount to legitimising the practice, which is legally prohibited, of publishing extracts from an investigation file before they are read out in open court, first, on account of the interest of the subject, and secondly, while noting b.’s claim that his right to be presumed innocent was breached. the court reaches the conclusion that the date of publication, the choices of quotation, and the portrayal of [b.] as guilty according to the documents from the judicial investigation, even though it had been discontinued, had the consequence of influencing his exercise, which was legally and conventionally guaranteed, of his defence rights, which meant that before being heard by a court he should not have been portrayed as guilty of the offence of undue influence against mrs bettencourt. [
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kiev. in 1996 he started a relationship with ms m., also a ukrainian national. in 2003 the applicant was granted permanent resident status. on 6 november 2006 the head of the ministry of the interior’s national security service issued an order withdrawing the applicant’s residence permit, ordering his expulsion and imposing a ten-year ban on his re-entering bulgaria, on the ground that his presence in the country represented a “serious threat to national security”. factual grounds justifying the order were not indicated; it was merely noted that it was based on “proposal no. that proposal, drawn up by national security service and also dated 6 november 2006, was submitted to the court. it stated that the applicant had allegedly been involved in acts of extortion, smuggling, arms deals and money laundering, that he operated with large amounts of illegally obtained money, that he had established contacts with bulgarian officials, including police officers, who had been providing him with illegal services, and that he had been in contact with presumed terrorists. while enumerating the applicant’s presumed illegal activities, the proposal referred to specific dates and names, but to no evidence to support the allegations. lastly, it was stated that the applicant had left bulgaria on 29 october 2006. unaware of the ministerial order of 6 november 2006, on 15 november 2006 the applicant attempted to re-enter the bulgarian territory but was stopped at the border and not permitted entry. since then he has been living in kiev, while ms m. and his son remained in bulgaria. through his lawyer, the applicant submitted an appeal to the bulgarian minister of the interior against the order of 6 november 2006. the appeal was dismissed on 22 december 2006, the minister pointing out, in particular, that he considered irrelevant the applicant’s argument that he had settled in bulgaria with his family. after that the applicant applied for judicial review of the order of 6 november 2006. in particular, he pointed out in his application that his family resided in bulgaria and that their separation had been unjustified. in the course of the judicial proceedings the applicant’s lawyer was shown proposal no. 50963/99, 20 june 2002) and article 13 of the convention, even though, at the time the impugned order had been issued, judicial review had not been available under the legislation then applicable (see paragraph 16 below). the judicial proceedings ended on 19 march 2009 with a final judgment of the supreme administrative court, which upheld the order of 6 november 2006. after enumerating the applicant’s alleged unlawful activities described in proposal no. b4923, it stated merely that the impugned order did not breach the law.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently in detention in zhytomyr, ukraine. in october 2001 ms k. was found murdered in her flat. in december 2001 ms s., a minor, was kidnapped and murdered. the next day he retracted his confession. the victim had allowed him to enter her flat. she also had tense relations with her daughter-in-law. to conceal his attempted robbery the applicant had then murdered the victim. on 16 february 2002 the applicant, still acting as a witness, participated without a lawyer in an on-site reconstruction of the attack on k. on 18 and 22 february 2002 he was again questioned, without a lawyer, about the attack. in the course of the trial the applicant stated that he was innocent of both murders but pleaded guilty to kidnapping s. he stated that on the day of k.’s murder he had met an old childhood acquaintance, m., in the street. on 10 october 2002 the supreme court, sitting as a court of cassation, upheld the applicant’s conviction. furthermore, the court notes that ukrainian legislation provides for obligatory legal representation of persons who could expect life imprisonment if convicted. the shabelnik judgment (cited above) became final on 19 may 2009. neither the applicant nor mr bushchenko requested that the applicant be escorted from his prison to the hearing before the supreme court panel. the lawyer made submissions to the court and a written summary of his remarks was submitted to the supreme court. according to the summary, after reiterating that the applicant’s confessions and the reconstruction reports should be ruled inadmissible, the lawyer presented his analysis of the remaining evidence in the file. in any case, it was improper to use that report since the psychiatrists had never been examined by the defence. on the same day the supreme court delivered its decision. it excluded the applicant’s original confessions from the body of evidence. however, it found that the rest of the evidence in the case file was sufficient to support the trial court’s finding that the applicant had murdered k. while trying to cover up an attempted robbery. in support of its findings the supreme court also referred to material and circumstances on which the trial court had not explicitly relied: (i) the fact that “in the course of psychiatric assessment [the applicant], told the experts about [k.’s murder] under the circumstances established by the [trial] court”; (ii) the applicant’s admission in court that he had visited the victim’s flat; and (iii) the testimony of ms g., the victim’s neighbour, that she had seen the applicant in the victim’s block of flats.
the applicants were born on 18 september 1971 and 24 december 1994 respectively and live in moscow. a two-roomed flat at 29-1-26 ozernaya ulitsa, moscow, was owned by the city. g. and her son resided there as tenants under the social housing agreement with the city. on 17 september 2003 the municipal authorities de-registered her tenancy. on an unspecified date a. submitted a forged copy of a court judgment to the department of the municipal housing and housing policy (the “housing department”) recognising her right to reside in the flat and on 9 february 2005 the housing department entered into a social housing lease agreement with a. and her family. on 25 february 2005 the housing department transferred the title to the flat to a., her husband and her daughter under the privatisation scheme. on 15 december 2005 a. and her husband sold the flat to the applicant. on 29 december 2005 the city registration body issued a certificate confirming the first applicant’s title to the flat. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. on an unspecified date the housing department obtained information that the court judgment submitted by a. might have been forged and on 15 december 2005 the housing authorities asked the prosecutor’s office to conduct a relevant inquiry. on 20 march 2008 the nikulinskiy district court of moscow invalidated the social housing lease agreement of 9 february 2005 and the privatisation agreement of 25 february 2005. on 9 october 2009 the district court granted the housing department’s claims in full. the court ruled that the case fell under one of the two exceptions to the protection of a bona fide purchaser’s title, which required that precedence be given to the previous owner who had been deprived of the property against his or her will. the court also ordered the applicants’ eviction. on 25 february 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 9 october 2009 on appeal. on an unspecified date the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings. on 12 march 2012 the district court granted the applicant’s additional time to comply with the judgment of 9 october 2009. the applicants were required to vacate the flat by 1 august 2012. on 14 may 2012 the city court upheld the said decision on appeal. the applicants continued to reside in the flat.
he is serving a prison sentence in the orenburg region. and the attempted murder of r., i. and fl. r. and p. with whom the yukos oil company had been in conflict for various reasons. had been collateral victims of their actions. on 5 july 2005 a deputy prosecutor general k., gave an interview to two major russian channels, the ntv and the first channel. the interview was broadcasted in their news programmes of the same date. k. said, in particular:“n., a member of the committee of directors of the yukos oil company and the first deputy president of that oil company, [the applicant], the head of the 4th division of the internal and financial security service of that oil company, and other still unidentified persons among the employees of that oil company founded a criminal gang for committing criminal offences in their personal and other interests. in 1998 [the applicant], upon instructions from n. and other employees of the yukos oil company ..., organised the murder of the head of the nefteyugansk town council p[.] ... who had acted contrary to their interests ...”. he complained that the prosecutor’s statements had encouraged the public to believe him guilty and prejudged the assessment of the facts by the competent court. on 16 october 2007 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 10 july 2007 on appeal. b.: this gang was founded by [the applicant] on the instructions from n.. yes, this was proved. the applicant lodged a complaint with the basmannyy district court of moscow. on 11 january 2006 the district court rejected the applicant’s complaint. the applicant was sentenced to twenty-one years’ imprisonment. the court also examined the expert reports of 24 december 2003 and 7 october 2004, ordered by the investigator. when questioned in court, the experts confirmed their findings. v. confirmed her findings when questioned in court. on 6 august 2007 the city court found the applicant guilty of the murder of kr., as regards the attempted murder of r., the court relied, inter alia, on the expert opinion of 7 october 2004, finding that the applicant had been the author of the handwritten note containing r.’s address.
the applicant was born in 1956 in the tambov region. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. on 9 november 2009 the kuybyshevskiy district court of st petersburg found him guilty of aggravated fraud and money laundering committed within an organised criminal group and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment. the judgment became final on 12 july 2012 when endorsed by the city court. he suffered heart attacks in 2000 and 2007 and a kidney affected by cancer was removed in 2003. on 24 august 2007 upon his admission to remand prison no. in september 2007 he started complaining about a number of symptoms such as a heart pain, fatigue, difficulty in breathing, and frequent urination. in the meantime the urinary condition became more acute. on 4 december 2008 the applicant was examined by a urologist for the first time whilst in detention. throughout 2009 the applicant’s urinary condition persisted. he urinated up to thirty-seven times per day and his nocturnal sleep was interrupted every hour or two. he had to continue resorting to urinary cauterisation. the experts observed that the medical unit of the detention facility where the applicant was kept was not equipped for treating patients in such a medical condition. the treatment provided slightly improved his condition. on 21 december 2010 the doctors from the urology institute performed a surgery on the applicant. the applicant was discharged from the hospital to a remand prison under the supervision of the resident doctor. the next day, having lost more than one litre of blood, he was sent back to the institute, where his condition was brought under control. he continued using the suprapubic catheter to remove the urine. on 28 june 2010 the preobrazhenskiy district court of moscow dismissed his claim. the court found as follows:“from the [applicant’s] medical file submitted by the [remand prison] it is apparent that ... [the authorities] provided him with medical aid, subjected him to medical testing, and prescribed treatment.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. the applicant’s husband, ali sinim, entered into an agreement with a truck owner, mr a.s., for the transportation of some personal goods and furniture from istanbul to antalya on 5 august 2006. had loaded with goods to be transported to antalya. had also been in the truck to help his father during the journey. s.s.h, and the transport company to which the truck had been leased, if any, for causing her husband’s death by illegally carrying dangerous inflammable goods. stated that if it had been made clear that the goods involved were inflammable then they would have been transported in accordance with the conditions set out in the law, which might have prevented the fatal accident. having regard to the various responsibilities imposed by the relevant legislation on the producer, seller, transporter and buyer of such goods, the applicant requested that the public prosecutor (i) check if şenocak ltd. on 6 may 2007, at the request of the sultanbeyli prosecutor, a traffic engineer submitted an expert report, where it was found that the deceased truck driver m.s. the driver of the other vehicle, had not been at fault. had also lost his life in the accident, the public prosecutor decided against prosecution. she reiterated that her husband had not been informed that the truck was carrying inflammable liquids, and also argued that the prosecutor had failed to identify the companies involved in the shipment of such dangerous goods, including the seller, buyer and transport company, and had not established the relations of the truck owner, a.s., was once again listed as the sole complainant in the decision, which was not notified to the applicant. was questioned about the accident for the first time by the police. had requested a truck from them to transport some goods. moreover, in response to the compensation request she had made to the sultanbeyli civil court of first instance (see below paragraph 30 for further details), the owner of şenocak ltd. on the basis of the forensic medicine institute’s report of 10 july 2008. reiterating mainly the arguments she had raised in her objection to the forensic medicine institute’s report, she submitted that the public prosecutor had failed to establish the facts of the case and had disregarded essential evidence in the investigation file which pointed to the representatives of salihli ltd. on 23 july 2009 the kadıköy assize court rejected the applicant’s objection, without responding to any of her arguments. on the basis of those findings, the experts stated that they agreed with the first report’s conclusions.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived, prior to his conviction, in the tver region. on 10 december 2003 i. and a. stabbed f. to death. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 6 february 2004 the kashin town court found the applicant guilty of arson. however, he had been disqualified by a court at the request of the district prosecutor. when questioned by the investigator, f. had confessed to arson and had testified against the applicant. shortly thereafter f. had been found stabbed to death. the applicant] organised f.’s murder to silence him. on 15 july 2004 a tv programme “police unit on duty” (дежурная часть) broadcast daily on the federal rtr channel, covered the applicant’s case. the jury trial started on 16 august 2004. they also stated that they had not yet formed any opinion about the defendants’ guilt or innocence. at the hearing of 24 august 2004 the court examined the prosecution witness sh. at the request of the prosecutor, the written statements he had made during the investigation were read out to the jury. the applicant was then allowed to put questions to sh. [the applicant says]: ‘the witness was drunk, the police officers had given him alcohol, he was made [temporarily] insane.” was questioned, as this issue is not within the competence of the jury. the presiding judge directs the jurors that they should disregard [the applicant’s statements] ... and should proceed from the understanding that all evidence presented to them ... was collected in accordance with the procedure established by law and was not [declared inadmissible].” further hearings were held on 25 and 26 august 2004. on 2 september 2004 the tver regional court found the applicant guilty of incitement to murder and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment. [the applicant] repeatedly breached the order in the courtroom and attempted to influence the jurors.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in cheboksary. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 31 january 2005 the supreme court of the chuvashiya republic quashed the district court’s judgment and remitted the matter for a new examination. in march 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of large-scale bribery. he was detained in remand prison iz-21/1 in cheboksary. the applicant also claimed that he possessed new evidence he wished to submit to the court. on 16 may 2007 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal. on 9 june 2007 the applicant was released on bail. on 27 march 2008 the moskovskiy district court decided that he had breached the terms of the bail by exercising pressure on witnesses, issued a detention order and put the applicant’s name on the list of fugitives from justice. they had been allegedly tipped off that the applicant was there. she did not open the door to the police immediately and told them that her father was in a hospital. according to her, the police began banging at the door and threatened her to break in. on the following day the applicant was arrested and placed in custody. the applicant complained to a prosecutor about the unlawful actions of the police on 8 april 2008. on 16 may 2009 the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings, finding that no criminal offence had been committed. the district court heard a number of witnesses. the officer k. testified that he had entered the flat with the consent of the applicant’s daughter and that he had stayed inside no longer than two or three minutes. on 2 july 2009 the supreme court upheld the conviction on appeal. by judgment of 27 november 2009, the leninskiy district court rejected his claim, noting that the applicant had been ultimately convicted in the criminal proceedings and given a custodial sentence and that the supreme court had quashed the detention order as being “unjustified” rather than “unlawful”. in the latter case, no compensation was payable.
on 27 march 2009 the leningrad regional court convicted him of murder and sentenced him to thirteen years and six months’ imprisonment. since january 2010 he has been serving the sentence in correctional colony no. according to the applicant, his eyesight began deteriorating in 2008. in september 2010 he complained about this to a resident colony doctor. eight months later the applicant was examined by an ophthalmologist, who visited the detention facility. the doctor diagnosed an “almost mature” cataract of the right eye and a focal cataract of the left eye. an in-depth medical examination in a hospital was recommended. on 1 july 2011 the applicant was sent to a prison hospital for an examination by an ophthalmologist. the ophthalmologist confirmed the presence of cataracts on both eyes. he established that the patient had lost his vision in his right eye and prescribed cataract surgery. it was noted that owing to the lack of intraocular lenses in stock and the overcrowding of the facility, the surgery would have to be performed later, in a “planned manner”. the applicant was sent back to the detention facility, the ophthalmologist having recommended that the applicant undergo another eye examination between january and march 2012. on 7 april 2012 the applicant complained about the quality of medical assistance he had received to the federal service for the execution of sentences in st petersburg. his complaint was then referred to the medical unit of his detention facility, which dismissed it in a letter dated 25 april 2012, stating that the patient had been provided with medical assistance in full. in may 2012 the applicant was seen by the head of the medical unit and put on a waiting list for admission to the ophthalmological department of the prison hospital for a medical examination and eye surgery. on 24 october 2013 the applicant was seen by an ophthalmologist. the doctor endorsed the advice that the applicant had received on 1 july 2011 and confirmed that he needed cataract surgery. on 14 january and 22 june 2014 the applicant underwent repeated eye examinations, which revealed that the cataract on his left eye was growing. the surgery was performed in the prison hospital on 1 october 2014.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1975 and 2003 respectively and live in ankara. on 8 february 2007, by decision of the hospital medical board, the patient underwent a second operation carried out by a different medical team. on 6 july 2007 the applicants lodged a complaint against the doctors who had carried out the operations. on 16 july 2007, pursuant to standard procedure, the prosecutor’s office applied to the governor of ankara for authorisation to prosecute. it concluded that the medical team had not been guilty of negligence during the first operation. in conclusion, the investigator recommended not authorising a criminal prosecution. it is not known in what capacity the author of the report, who is a doctor, was involved or to which hospital he is attached. he considered that open-heart surgery presented risks not only to the organ being operated on but also to other organs. the teams showed great efficiency and a high degree of medical expertise. in support of their claim they submitted a private expert report dated 13 may 2008 on the amount of the damages. according to that report the patient had originally been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy (an illness which significantly diminishes the “pumping” capacity of the heart) at ankara university hospital, and following more detailed examinations at the sami ulus hospital, alcapa, also known as bland-white-garland syndrome, had been diagnosed. the experts explained that the patient had undergone a takeuchi operation to create an intrapulmonary tunnel and that a leak had been noted on the periphery of the membrane during the check-ups conducted six months later. there can be no question of the doctors having committed a medical or surgical error.” the applicants contested the report, deeming it inadequate. they considered that the document, which cited scientific studies, was more like a magazine article than an expert report. it contained no concrete and objective facts about the case in hand and would not help in determining the dispute. consequently, they asked the court to commission a second expert assessment, either from a different medical board or from a specialist section of the istanbul institute of forensic sciences. by judgment of 3 november 2009 the ccgj rejected the applicants request for a second expert assessment. they alleged, moreover, that one of the doctors who should have been present during the operation had stayed away from the theatre after having been alerted by telephone that the patient’s heart had stopped during the operation, pointing out that the expert report had neither analysed nor even mentioned that fact. on 7 october 2010 the court of cassation also dismissed the applicants’ application for rectification.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in perm. on 22 april 2008 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug dealing and was placed in pre-trial detention on the ground that he was suspected of committing a serious offence, was a foreign national, had no permanent place of residence in perm, no job, no income, he could abscond and commit crimes. on 18 june 2008 the permskiy district court of the perm region extended his pre-trial detention on the same grounds. on 5 august 2008 the permskiy district court issued the first conviction which was quashed by the perm regional court on 14 october 2008. the court held that the applicant should remain in detention without indicating any reasons. by decisions of 1 november 2008 and 18 march 2009, as upheld on appeal, the permskiy district court extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention reiterating its earlier reasoning and stating that he could interfere with the investigation and put pressure on witnesses. on 20 may 2010 the district court issued a new conviction. on 14 december 2010 the perm regional court quashed this conviction. on 26 may 2011 the perm regional court convicted the applicant of drug dealing and smuggling and sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment. on 25 october 2011 the supreme court of russia commuted the sentence to 8 years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1954 and died on 27 may 2014. on 24 october 2014 his wife, mrs schwab, was established as his heir. as of 1987 the applicant had intermittently received emergency relief benefits (notstandshilfe) under the unemployment insurance act (arbeitslosenversicherungsgesetz). on 4 february 2008 the vienna prandaugasse labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice) retroactively revoked these benefits in so far as they related to the period from 22 august 2002 to 31 july 2007, and ordered the applicant to refund the payments concerned, holding that he had not been entitled to them as he had been living in a joint household with his wife during that period. the applicant appealed, claiming that his wife had moved to her parents’ house in september 2000, and that they had been running separate households ever since. on 8 august 2008 the vienna regional labour market service (arbeitsmarktservice landesgeschäftsstelle; hereinafter, “the labour market service”) dismissed the appeal. it held that its preliminary investigations had not shown that the applicant and his wife had terminated their joint household during the period in question. the applicant made a request to the constitutional court (verfassungsgerichtshof) for legal aid to lodge a complaint against this decision. on 6 november 2008 the constitutional court dismissed the request for lack of prospects of success. on 6 november 2008 the applicant complained to the administrative court (verwaltungsgerichtshof) about the labour market service’s decision of 8 august 2008 (see paragraph 9 above), explicitly requesting an oral hearing before the administrative court. he contested, inter alia, that he had been living in a joint household with his wife during the period in question. by decision of 25 may 2011 the administrative court, without holding an oral hearing, dismissed the complaint as unfounded. it held that the labour market service had, in view of the evidence established during its preliminary investigations, reasonably assumed that the applicant had been living in a joint household with his wife. the applicant’s request for an oral hearing was not addressed. the administrative court’s decision was served on the applicant’s counsel on 17 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in blumau. the applicant and his former partner, s.o., have two children, born out of wedlock in 2002 and 2004 respectively. always had sole custody of the children as the parents never agreed to have joint custody. the children lived with their mother during the week. at weekends, the whole family usually stayed at the applicant’s house. and the applicant separated and the children remained with their mother. furthermore he applied for an interim measure concerning his visiting rights, as he had not seen his children since 20 april 2008. on 8 october 2008 the parents agreed that the applicant would be able to see his children every second monday from 2.30 pm or 3 pm until 6 pm and every second saturday from 10 am until 6 pm. on the same day the applicant applied for an extension of his visiting rights to the whole weekend. unilaterally stopped further visits, claiming that these had a negative influence on the children. between november 2008 and easter 2009, on his own initiative, the applicant secretly went to see his children at their school and kindergarten a few times. the vienna juvenile court assistance office (jugendgerichtshilfe) submitted its statement on 10 march 2009 and recommended maintaining sole custody for the mother and visiting rights for the applicant according to the agreement the parents had concluded on 8 october 2008. it dismissed the applicant’s application for sole custody. in its reasoning the court held that the children were well cared for by their mother. in the present case the court found no such risk and the applicant actually had not claimed such a risk. according to the applicant’s submissions, his visiting rights were resumed on 24 april 2009 in the amount determined by the district court (see paragraph 13 above). it confirmed the reasoning of the district court and held that there was no indication of a risk to the children’s best interest if the mother maintained sole custody. the court also found that the parents had not mutually agreed on joint custody, therefore no further issues arose in this connection. moved with the children to the south of austria, about 400 kilometers from vienna.
the relevant details of the application are set out in the appended table. the applicant complained of the inadequate conditions of his detention. he also raised other complaints under the provisions of the convention. the government submitted a declaration with a view to resolving the issues raised by the applicant. in particular, the government acknowledged that the conditions of the applicant’s detention in facility no. iz-42/2 in novokuznetsk had not complied with the requirements of article 3 of the convention. they offered to pay the applicant the sum of 4,480 euros and invited the court to strike the application out of the list of cases in accordance with article 37 § 1 (c) of the convention. the amount would be converted into the currency of the respondent state at the rate applicable on the date of payment, and would be payable within three months from the date of notification of the court’s judgement. in the event of failure to pay this amount within the abovementioned three-month period, the government undertook to pay simple interest on them, from the expiry of that period until settlement, at a rate equal to the marginal lending rate of the european central bank during the default period plus three percentage points. the declaration did not mention the applicant’s complaint concerning the inadequate conditions of detention in correctional colonies, no. the applicant informed the court that he agreed to the terms of the declaration.
the applicant was born in 1946 in kazakhstan. he had kazakh nationality until 1997, when he was granted russian nationality and renounced his kazakh nationality. in 2001 he moved to moscow, where he has been living ever since. the next day the inter-district prosecutor’s office of the presnenskiy district of moscow (“the prosecutor’s office”) – relying on article 61 of the minsk convention, article 16 of the european convention on extradition and articles 97-101, and 108 of the code of criminal procedure of russia (“the ccrp”) – applied to the presnenskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) for the authorisation of his detention pending extradition. after an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court (“the city court”) upheld the decision on 29 october 2010. it furthermore considered that the applicant’s state of health did not prevent his further detention, regard being had to the constant medical supervision and the appropriate quality of care ensured by the custodial authorities. the court refused to release him on bail, stating that if the applicant were released, it might not be possible to detain him again in the future. after an appeal by the applicant, on 22 december 2010 the city court examined the detention order. on 18 february 2011, the district court, unaware of the decision of the kazakh investigators, extended the applicant’s detention until 23 march 2011. at the time of his arrest the applicant was suffering from advanced hypertension, which posed a high risk of cardiovascular complications, advanced atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries, ischaemic heart disease, and other illnesses. on 24 september 2010, the day following his arrest, the applicant suffered a hypertensive crisis and was taken to a civilian hospital in moscow. four days later, when his condition became stable, he was discharged from the hospital. four days later the applicant was taken to the medical unit in prison no. on 11 february 2011 the applicant was admitted to a civilian hospital in moscow. a special medical board, comprising a surgeon, neurologist, urologist, cardiologist and an ophthalmologist, examined the applicant and his medical file. no deterioration in his condition was recorded. the applicant was released on 3 march 2011. in april 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the district court against the detention authorities, seeking that the following be declared unlawful: their refusal to submit him to medical examinations (including those ordered by the court) (see paragraphs 24 and 28 above); and the refusal of 14 february 2011 to allow him to receive medical attention and to grant his lawyer access to the applicant’s medical file. the applicant had been provided with the required medical assistance in detention. it appears that the decision was not appealed against and became final.
the applicants were owners of flats in moscow and yekaterinburg. resided in the flat at 7-1-50 ulitsa burakova, moscow, under a social housing agreement. as it was later established by the police, a. submitted to the registration authorities a written consent for her registration in the flat allegedly signed by ye. a.’s title to the flat was verified and registered by state authorities. on 10 october 2007 a. sold the flat to the applicant. according to the government, the applicant did not move into the flat. on 15 february 2010 the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat by a. the government did not inform of its outcome. on 19 december 2012 the izmailovskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims in full. the court considered the housing and privatisation agreements to the benefit of a. to be null and void and reinstated the city’s title to the flat. the court also dismissed the applicant’s argument that she had bought a flat in good faith noting that the purchase price she had paid for the flat had been below the market value. nor had she demostrated due care or diligence when buying the flat. on 30 may 2013 the city court upheld the judgment of 19 december 2012 on appeal. on 11 october 2013 the city court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal. on 7 may 2009 the city administration asked the police to carry out an inquiry as regards the persons residing in the flat. the government did not inform of the outcome of the inquiry. according to the documents submitted with the application, on 5 june 1992 the title to the flat was transferred from the city of yekaterinburg to t. under the privatisation scheme and on 16 january 1997 t. sold the flat to tikh. the sale was verified and registered by the state authorities and the title to the flat was transferred to tikh. the transaction was verified and registered by state authorities. on 26 november 2012 the city administration brought an action seeking the invalidation of all the transactions with the flat. on 19 december 2013 the leninskiy district court of yekaterinburg invalidated the privatisation agreement and transferred the title to the city of yekaterinburg.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in balıkesir. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 26 may 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 22 june 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal. on 9 november 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court. these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 14 december 2010. on 8 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 26 april 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ankara. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 13 april 2010 the applicant was dismissed from his post as an officer in the army due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 16 may 2010 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of his dismissal. on 21 october 2010 the chief public prosecutor submitted his observations to the supreme military administrative court. these observations were notified to the applicant and he replied to it in his petition of 24 january 2011. on 15 february 2011 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action having regard to the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 3 may 2011 the applicant’s request for rectification of the above judgment was rejected by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in garðabær. at the material time, the applicant was a journalist and a freelance writer for the web-based media site pressan. the federation of icelandic fishing vessel owners (hereafter “the liu”) represented fishing vessel owners in iceland and safeguarded their common economic, financial, legal, technical and social interests. the applicant claimed that a private website, b, was publishing anonymous blogs, constantly lobbying for the liu and discrediting persons who spoke against it. on 21 july 2010 a newspaper, dv, published an article regarding rumours that the liu was providing financial support to website b. it was alleged that this support amounted to 1,500,000 icelandic krónur (isk) each month. in the article, no mention was made of the liu’s chief executive office (hereafter “a”). on 26 july 2011 the applicant published a third article on the matter on pressan. the applicant added that he had not received confirmation of the last statement. part of his job is, inter alia, to participate in public debate on maritime affairs and to express the views and policies of the liu. there are different views on this system in society, and it is of great concern, as the fishing industry is one of the fundamental and most important industries of this country. [ the defendant, who writes on a regular basis about various social matters, has discussed the fisheries management system though his writings and criticised certain aspects of it. ...according to article 73(1) of the constitution no. 33/1944 everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and belief. act no 62/1994 on the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. ...in the court’s view the following statement applies directly to [a]: “i know that some of the liu board members are not aware of the financial support for the offensive writings on [website b], because the payments are well-disguised in the organisation’s financial statements. the applicant] does not maintain that this does not apply directly to [a], his plea for acquittal is based on the fact that the statement does not imply that [a] has committed a criminal offence; furthermore he claims that this is not something he maintains, since he pointed out [in the article] that he was not able to confirm that statement. the evaluation of whether or not the statement includes an accusation of a criminal act or is defamatory will not be based on how [the applicant] understands it but on how readers are expected to perceive and interpret it. the applicant] cannot prove the statement so it is considered not to be proved. the aforementioned statement is considered to be defamatory for [a] and likely to damage his reputation and honour. the applicant sought leave to appeal to the supreme court, which was refused on 25 february 2013.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 15 february 2009 the applicant was arrested by police officers from the istanbul police headquarters on suspicion of being involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation. on 18 february 2009 the applicant’s statement was taken by the public prosecutor. the same day the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court ordered that the applicant be detained on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence he was charged with and risk of tampering with evidence. on 27 march 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court. he charged the applicant with membership of an armed terrorist organisation, making the propaganda of an armed terrorist organisation, contravening the meetings and demonstration marches act (law no. 2911), and causing damage to public property. on 5 may 2009 at the end of the preparatory hearing, the istanbul assize court decided that the applicant’s detention should be continued taking into account the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the fact that his statements had not yet been taken. on 2 october 2009 the applicant’s trial resumed. at the first hearing, in the presence of the applicant, the court ordered that the applicant’s detention on remand be continued on the same grounds. at hearings held on 16 february 2010 and 8 june 2010, respectively, the applicant’s requests to be released from detention on remand were rejected by the trial court. the applicant filed objections against these decisions. on 15 march 2010 and 7 july 2010, the istanbul assize court dismissed the objections. the court decided on the basis of the case file, without holding a public hearing. in delivering its decisions, the court also took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutors, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 23 november 2010 the istanbul assize court released the applicant from detention on remand taking into account the period he had remained in detention. on 17 october 2010 the case was transferred to the juvenile court. according to the information in the case file, the case is still pending before the istanbul anadolu juvenile court.
on 9 august 2004 the applicant lodged a civil claim concerning a property issue against eleven other persons with the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi. on 15 march 2011 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled partly in favour of the applicant. on 18 march 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the high court (viši sud) in podgorica. on 8 november 2013 the high court in podgorica quashed the judgement and remitted the case back to the court of first instance. on 6 july 2015 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant. on 3 august 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal against this judgment. the proceedings are still pending at the second instance.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in istanbul. on an unspecified date the applicant arrived in turkey. according to the arrest and search reports, he was arrested and searched because “he was wanted by interpol”. on 10 september 2009 the bakırköy magistrates’ court ordered that the applicant be kept in provisional detention for forty-five days. on 17 september 2009 the applicant appealed against his detention but on 20 october 2009 the magistrates’ court dismissed his objection. 5271, and to obtain final defence submissions from the applicant before ruling. on 1 july 2010 the bakırköy assize court decided to find out whether the applicant had been convicted or whether there was a case pending against him in uzbekistan. they showed that there was neither a criminal conviction nor a case pending against the applicant in uzbekistan. in the meantime, on 23 december 2010 the unhcr had sent a letter to the ministry of the interior. the unhcr also informed the authorities in its letter that it had rejected the applicant’s application for refugee status since he did not qualify for that status but that he should nevertheless not be removed to uzbekistan in the light of the non-refoulement principle and the requirements of article 3 of the convention. on 7 january 2011 the bakırköy assize court decided to ask the ministry of the interior to submit a certified copy of the unhcr’s letter to it and adjourned the hearing. the ministry of the interior submitted the document requested at a hearing on 4 february 2011. the court noted that the applicant was under investigation for establishing a criminal organisation and causing bodily harm. on the same day the court ordered that the applicant be kept in detention under article 18 § 7 of the criminal code. on 20 july 2011 the applicant applied to the bakırköy assize court for release. he noted, in particular, that he could not be extradited because he had been granted subsidiary protection status. he asked the court to consider measures other than detention such as a prohibition on leaving the country, release on bail or an obligation to report to a police station. he once again stressed that he had been granted subsidiary protection status and that therefore he could not be extradited. on 10 september 2012 the applicant acquired turkish nationality. he also appealed against the orders for his continued detention.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in taganrog. in 1978 the applicant and her sister inherited a house. in 2001 the applicant had a civil dispute with her sister regarding division of the house. on 17 january 2001 the taganrog town court determined that the sisters had equal shares in respect of the inherited property. on 29 may 2002 the taganrog town court factually determined the equal shares of the house, as well as the way of its sharing. on 31 july 2002 the rostov regional court upheld this judgment. on an unspecified date the applicant’s sister lodged a separate claim, requesting the court to acknowledge her property right to the corridor and the kitchen in the house, referring to the fact that she had invested in their reconstruction in 1989 and built some attachments to the house. the court increased the share of the applicant’s sister in the property up to 64/100 and reduced the applicant’s part to 36/100. on 22 october 2004 the taganrog town court on request of the applicant’s sister held that the judgment of 17 october 2003 established “new circumstances”, i.e. that the attachments in the house had been built by the applicant’s sister. thus the court quashed the judgment of 29 may 2002 and re-opened the case on account of the “newly-discovered circumstances which were not and could not have been known at the moment of delivering the judgment of 29 may 2002”. the proceedings resumed, but on 8 february 2005 the applicant withdrew her claim and the proceedings were terminated. in march 2005 the applicant’s sister again filed an action seeking to divide their property in kind. on 10 october 2006 the taganrog town court granted her claims. the house was divided in two parts and the parties were ordered to pay dividing costs. the court rendered the judgment in the absence of the applicant and her representative on the ground that she failed to appear without any reasons despite her having been duly summoned to the hearing. the court noted that the applicant had attended several hearings and had already presented her arguments on the merits. it also mentioned that the applicant had begun to avoid the court hearings in order to delay the trial. the applicant appealed, claiming, inter alia, that the trial court had rendered the judgment in her absence though she had been ill. on 6 december 2006 the rostov regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. as to the applicant’s absence, the court found that the applicant had been properly notified about the hearing in question but had failed to inform the trial court that she had been ill and never requested to suspend the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in belgrade, serbia. the relevant facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 18 september 1995 the applicant and her family members instituted proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in herceg novi, seeking division of their joint property. on 5 may 1997 the court of first instance in herceg novi discontinued these proceedings and instructed the parties to initiate a separate civil case given a number of contentious issues. on 8 september 1997 the applicant’s cousins brought a claim against the applicant and her parents before the court of first instance in herceg novi. on 30 december 1997, the cousins lodged an additional claim concerning the same matter. both claims were subsequently joined and examined in the same civil proceedings. on 1 october 2002 the court of first instance in herceg novi ruled against the applicant and her parents. on 25 june 2004 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal. it was served on the applicant on 15 july 2004. on 17 august 2004 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court of montenegro. this appeal was misplaced until 20 january 2006, when the applicant’s lawyers intervened and urged the authorities to find it. on 12 january 2007 the applicant amended her appeal on points of law. on 14 february 2008 the supreme court of montenegro rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded. this decision was served on the applicant on 6 march 2008.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in fryazino, the moscow region. the date is apparent from the decision to resume that criminal investigation, which was taken on 3 july 2006 (see paragraph 17 below). it is forbidden for municipal civil servants to have a second job. brought defamation proceedings against the applicant and the newspaper’s editorial department before the shchelkovo town court (“the town court”), seeking a retraction of the information contained in the article and non‑pecuniary damages. has submitted that she performed the functions of bookkeeper and head of those entities as a volunteer and had no contract of employment or payment. ... [ on the same grounds, the court finds that the certificate issued by [strela] zhsk to confirm that a salary was paid is unreliable [as evidence]. ... ... given that it has not been proved during the court hearing that s.p. ... the allegations of improper behaviour on the part of s.p. towards visitors to the public reception office, such as raising her voice and being rude, have not been proven in the course of the court hearing. ... was allegedly responsible during the time she performed the duties of head of strela zhsk ... have not been proven [by the applicant] ...in determining non-pecuniary damages ..., the court takes into account that ... the published material was based on unverified information and that s.p., on 17 may 2006 the criminal investigation against s.p. the article was an interview with n., a local businessman standing for mayor of fryazino. n. and the applicant argued that the impugned statement had in fact been a value judgment which had not been susceptible of proof, which the town court dismissed as follows:“the argument by n. and his representative that the impugned statement was a value judgment is refuted by the case material. ... n.’s statement ... has a precise statement of fact that l.k. had committed a crime by stealing and replacing the land-use plan ...having analysed the complaint by members of the public to the shchelkovo town prosecutor regarding l.k., the article read, in so far as relevant, as follows:“... one of the covert heads of the limited liability company roads of the xxi century, who is also the head of the prince casino, a certain g.a., pounced on me, punched me in the chest, and threatened to kill me and my family and shoot my guards. and u., was shot in the head and killed ...” 25. on 22 august 2005 the territorial electoral commission brought a claim in the town court against n., alleging that the newspaper article had not complied with election campaign rules and had been an abuse of press freedom. on 27 august 2005 the town court found for n. and stated that the impugned publication had been paid campaign material and as such had complied with the relevant regulations.
the first applicant is a sister of mr b., who died of aids in the botkin hospital in st petersburg on 6 may 2008. on 13 october 2004 mr b. was arrested on suspicion of robbery. a relevant entry was made in his medical file, but no treatment was prescribed. in august 2006 he was sent to serve the sentence in correctional colony no. it was decided that he should stay in the hospital for tuberculosis treatment. in response, the doctor “gave him a talk”. on 20 june 2007 mr b. was discharged from the prison hospital. on 2 april 2008 mr b. was admitted to prison hospital no. at that time he was unable to walk, was feverish and extremely emaciated. eight days later he was transferred to an infectious diseases unit. three days later the medvezhyegorsk town court of the republic of karelia granted the request. on the same day mr b. was released from detention. a standard drug regimen was prescribed and administered to him in the prison medical unit. the result of a sputum culture test performed on 26 february 2007 was smear-positive. following a decision of the prison medical board on 16 june 2007, his drug regimen was adjusted. however, doctors noted a further development of opportunistic infections. the results of a smear test proved negative. on 26 may and 4 june 2010 a russian non-governmental organisation, agora, complained to the russian prosecutor general’s office of the lack of hiv treatment for detainees, including mr b. and mr p. the complaint was referred to the prosecutor’s office in the republic of karelia. the investigative authorities stressed that mr b. had managed to live in detention without the antiretroviral therapy for almost three years and that mr p. had died more than seven months after his release. on 28 october 2011 the tverskoy district court of moscow examined the claim.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in voronezh prior to her arrest. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant stated that she was not aware of its contents. the applicant and b. were interviewed in separate rooms. the applicant was told to open the black bag and to show its contents. four plastic bags containing yellow and green herb and cash money were found inside. the expert later determined that the herb was marijuana having a total weight of almost three kilograms. at 8.15 p.m. the investigator compiled the record of the applicant’s arrest. the time of arrest was given as 7.50 p.m. on 14 july 2007. on 15 july 2007 the applicant was formally charged and the investigator applied to a court for a detention order. however, the court did not heed that argument and ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody because the gravity of charges against her. on 19 july 2007 counsel for the applicant filed an appeal. on 25 july 2007 copies of the appeal were forwarded to the applicant and to the prosecutor for comments. the appeal hearing was initially scheduled for 22 august 2007 but subsequently adjourned for one week because one of the applicant’s representatives did not show up. instead, a court bailiff submitted reports about his unsuccessful attempts to ensure their attendance. the reports contained the same text to the effect that the witnesses could not be reached on the phone, that no one opened the door at their residence and that neighbours had told the bailiff that they had not seen them for a long time. the trial court refused the motion, without giving any reasons. it further held that there existed “exceptional circumstances” for the absence of the witnesses ms p. and ms a. and allowed their pre-trial statements to be read out, overriding the objections from the defence. by judgment of 8 april 2008, the district court found the applicant and b. guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to eight years’ imprisonment in a high-security correctional colony. it held in particular that the applicant’s claim that she did not know she was carrying marijuana in her friend’s bag was refuted by the seizure report of 14 july 2007 and the statements by the witnesses ms p. and ms a. 19.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 1994, the applicant was convicted of theft and given a two-year custodial sentence conditional on one year’s probation. however, the court applied a general amnesty act and the applicant’s conviction, including the probation period, was spent with immediate effect. less than one year later, on 29 may 1995, a different court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. considering that the applicant had breached the terms of his probation by committing a new offence, the court ordered the suspended sentence to be activated and increased the total length of the sentence by one year. on 11 december 2001 the presidium of the omsk regional court acknowledged that the 1995 judgment had been unlawful in the part relating to the increase of the final sentence in connection with the prior conviction that had already been spent. the length of the sentence was varied to six years’ imprisonment, calculated from 2 january 1995 which was the date of the applicant’s arrest. given that the applicant had already spent more than six years in detention, the presidium ordered his immediate release. the applicant unsuccessfully tried several avenues for claiming compensation for his unlawful detention during eleven months and fourteen days. he sought first to exercise the “right to rehabilitation” under the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 13 below). on 5 august 2003 the oktyabrskiy district court in omsk rejected his application, pointing out that the “right to rehabilitation” only accrued to those who have been acquitted or exonerated which was not the applicant’s case. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. the applicant also tried to initiate criminal proceedings against judge b. who had given the judgment of 29 may 1995. his criminal-law complaint was rejected on the ground that the limitation period had expired. finally, the applicant filed a civil claim for compensation under the tort provisions of the civil code (see paragraph 14 below). on 20 december 2005 the tsentralniy district court in omsk rejected his claim, finding that paragraph 1 of article 1070 did not apply because the applicant had been found guilty rather than acquitted and that the special condition of applicability of paragraph 2 – the criminal conviction of the judge – was not fulfilled. on 14 june 2006 the omsk regional court rejected an appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in šiauliai. arrived at a petrol station near the town of skuodas. on 13 march 2007 the police identified two suspects, e.g. and r.b., was identified and notified of the same suspicion. charging them with the crimes set out in articles 140 § 1 and 284 § 1 of the criminal code. on 18 december 2008 the applicant was examined by a court medical expert. the court considered that the charges had been proven by victim and witness testimony, the confessions of the accused, and the video recording from the petrol station’s camera. were given suspended prison sentences ranging from twelve to eighteen months. the klaipėda regional court held that the district court had not based its judgment on circumstances examined at the hearing but solely on the description of the charges in the indictment. as a result, the case was remitted to the skuodas district court for re-examination. on an unspecified date the prosecutor amended the indictment and charged e.g., r.b. of the charges against them and gave them suspended prison sentences ranging from twelve to eighteen months. appealed against the district court’s judgment. on 26 march 2012 a different panel of the skuodas district court held that the five-year statute of limitations (see paragraph 26 below) had expired and discontinued the case as time-barred, leaving the victims’ civil claims unexamined. after the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings, the applicant submitted a civil claim against e.g., r.b. on 20 february 2013 the skuodas district court granted the applicant’s civil claim in part. had caused damage to the applicant by their deliberate actions. however, the court considered that the applicant had not proven the pecuniary damage claimed and awarded him ltl 124.45 (approximately eur 36) under that head on the basis of petrol receipts he had submitted. the applicant appealed against that judgment, and on 4 july 2013 the klaipėda regional court partly upheld his appeal. the amount of non-pecuniary damages was left unchanged.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 25 march 1996 the applicant brought a compensation claim for damages suffered as a consequence of an expropriation of his property against the municipality of bar and one of the local primary schools before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in bar. on 11 april 1996 the applicant’s representative informed the court of first instance that he had initiated a separate set of proceedings to determine the value of the above-mentioned damages. the court of first instance suspended the above mentioned civil proceedings pending the final resolution of this matter. no document was submitted by the parties as to whether or not the compensation proceedings have ended in the meantime. accordingly, it would appear that the said two sets of proceedings are still pending before the court of first instance. on 2 february 2004 the applicant instituted proceedings before the court of first instance in bar, against his neighbour, seeking a demarcation between their two plots of land. on 25 march 2004 the applicant amended his proposal to this effect. on 14 september 2004 the applicant and the respondent reached a friendly settlement which was approved by the court of first instance on the same day.
the applicants were born in 1966, 1967, 1988 and 2003 respectively and live in blagoevgrad. the first and second applicants are cohabiting partners and the fourth applicant is their daughter. at the relevant time all the applicants were living together. he needs assistance for most daily activities, which is usually provided by the second applicant or his care assistant. one of his activities was giving short-term loans at high interest rates. in 2010 the prosecution authorities opened criminal proceedings against the first applicant for usury. upon arrival, his care assistant was arrested. the car remained in the carpark and the first applicant remained in it. on two or three occasions during the day the second applicant was allowed to come to help him with his physical needs. the operation against him had been planned in advance. at about 6 p.m., while still in the car and in the presence of his lawyer who had arrived in the meantime, the first applicant had charges of usury brought against him by an investigator. they gave up, after becoming aware that they could hurt him. after that his care assistant, still in detention, was again brought out under guard. the prosecution’s application to have the first applicant placed under house arrest was allowed. the applicant’s care assistant was released on 8 april 2011 and has not been questioned any further or prosecuted. the observance of the first applicant’s house arrest was supervised by the police. between 8 and 14 april 2011 there were no checks on whether he was complying with the measure. when asked to provide an explanation, he stated that he had gone out to buy something. on 29 april 2011 the applicant was met by officers in front of the building as he arrived in his car. usually she was taken by her mother to another room.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in los angeles. sold the first floor of the house to e.t., and her family carried out construction works in the house and on the plot of land adjacent to it, modifying both the house and the surrounding area. they have built and are running a restaurant there. in her turn lodged a counterclaim against the applicant, seeking to annul the will and the subsequent registration of his title as regards the plot of land adjacent to the house. by a judgment of 1 july 2003 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan (երևան քաղաքի կենտրոն և նորք-մարաշ համայնքների առաջին ատյանի դատարան – “the district court”) partially allowed the applicant’s claim and dismissed e.t. on 22 august 2003 the civil court of appeal (հհ քաղաքացիական գործերով վերաքննիչ դատարան) re-examined the case on the merits. the judgment of 22 august 2003 thereby became final and binding and a writ of execution was issued in this respect. thereafter the head of the kentron division of the state real estate registry (անշարժ գույքի կադաստրի պետական կոմիտեի կենտրոն տարածքային ստորաբաժանում) requested the civil court of appeal to clarify the judgment of 22 august 2003. it stated, in particular, that the title to the plot of land adjacent to the house was to be registered in the applicant’s name. this decision became final and was also submitted for enforcement. by the judgment of 28 august 2006 the district court allowed the applicant’s claim in its entirety. it stated, in particular, that the applicant’s title was to be registered in respect of the plot of land adjacent to the house and the constructions situated therein, that e.t. it appears that at some point the proceedings were resumed. it appears that until 2010 other measures were initiated by the deja, such as obliging the kentron division of the state real estate registry to perform the registration of the applicant’s title, in accordance with the judgments in his favour, and setting new time-limits for e.t. following a complaint lodged by the applicant, on 3 july 2007 the district court annulled the decision of the general prosecutor’s office to refuse to institute criminal proceedings, on the grounds that the investigator had not taken proper action to verify whether the bailiffs had carried out their duties properly with a view to securing the enforcement of the above-mentioned judicial acts in favour of the applicant. as a result, criminal proceedings were instituted against the bailiffs and officials of the kentron division of the state real estate registry. as a result, the criminal proceedings were resumed on 14 may 2008. thereafter, the criminal proceedings were again terminated three times, namely on 14 june 2008, 17 july 2009 and 23 april 2010. the judgments of the civil court of appeal of 22 august 2003 and 22 december 2006, as well as the decision of 22 october 2004, therefore remain unenforced today.
the applicant company is the publisher of an irish daily newspaper, the herald. the evening herald called into question the manner in which the tendering procedure had been conducted, the qualifications of ms l. for the work involved, the high level of remuneration she received, as well as the amount of work that was in fact done by ms l. it referred to eight trips abroad on which ms l. had been part of the ministerial entourage, in particular a trip to new york to attend a united nations conference. the montage showed her standing very close to the minister, whose image had been taken from another photo, with the new york skyline behind them. the headline read “the minister, [ms l.] and the mystery meeting”. the two issues put to the jury were whether the articles, as a whole, including the accompanying photographs, meant that ms l. had an extra-marital affair with mr c., and whether the last article in the series meant that ms l. had travelled to new york at government expense in the company of mr c. for a united nations conference, but that she had not in fact attended it. in his charge to the jury, the trial judge explained that in an action for defamation, damages serve three functions: to afford consolation for the distress caused by the defamatory statement; to repair the harm to reputation, including business reputation; and to vindicate the person’s reputation. the trial judge did not give any specific guideline to the jury regarding the appropriate level of compensation, stressed the limited nature of the guidelines he could provide and indicated, in broad terms, that, when assessing damages the jury must bear in mind reality, the current times, the cost of living and the value of money. i can give you what help i can, and i will, in coming to an appropriate figure for damages. you must also be fair to the defendant too ...[y]ou must consider the defendant as well because your decision must be a fair decision and must be fair to both parties. ... put those out of your mind completely ... it is this case and what is appropriate in this case that is important and you have to reach that decision yourself and without as much help as i would like to be able to give you, but i am not permitted to give you.” in the event that the supreme court set aside the award of damages on appeal, ms l. sought to have the matter remitted to the high court for a fresh assessment by a new jury. as for comparison with personal injury awards, she recalled the different function of damages in the two types of case. but the libel of ms l. was nonetheless a very serious one. the next factor was the extent of publication. ms l. had gone from being unknown to the public to being notorious. ms l. had received personal abuse in her hometown. i have no doubt that from her point of view it was a very serious matter. l in this case was one of the highest ever awards made in a case of this kind in this country. whilst i understand those to be her instructions i am satisfied that in the context of this case it would be desirable for all parties to bring an end to the litigation between the parties and in those circumstances it seems to me that the approach to be taken by the court should be to set aside the verdict of the jury on damages and to substitute a sum in the figure of €1,250,000 for damages.” therefore, an award will not be disturbed easily or second guessed purely to fine tune it.”
the applicant was born in 1963 and is detained in riga. the applicant was charged with several counts of organising, inciting and aiding various crimes against persons and property. had given evidence against him when questioned by the police between january and may 2001; when giving that evidence they stated that the applicant had incited them to engage in certain criminal activities. subsequently, when questioned by a prosecutor on 17 october 2001, a.d. testified that they had never before met the applicant, and that p.b., submitted that the statements had been illegible and that he had not been given the opportunity to engage a lawyer. had been writing a record of his questioning while another police officer had questioned him. appeared before the first-instance court. he testified that while he had questioned a.d. was given an opportunity to put questions to them. submitted a written request to the first-instance court for it to disregard his pre-trial statements as he had been ill-treated and tortured during the pre-trial investigation in order to force him to incriminate his co-accused, including the applicant. nobody had offered to assign him a lawyer. he had not complained about these incidents at the time because he had been afraid of retribution. and v. p., emphasising that they had not lodged any complaints prior to the first-instance proceedings. it did not regard as credible their submissions that police officers had pressured them into giving those statements. had made the allegations of coercion in an attempt to explain why they had subsequently given evidence in favour of their other co-accused, including the applicant, and against their late co-accused, p.b. he had been declared wanted and was at large. on 30 september 2005 the senate of the supreme court by a final decision refused to examine the appeal lodged by a.v. it also found that they had made those allegations in an attempt to explain why they had subsequently given evidence in favour of their co-accused, including the applicant. on 30 september 2005 the aforementioned judgment was upheld by the senate of the supreme court.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in riga. on 5 november 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted in connection with large-scale smuggling of oil products and on 27 september 2005 the applicant was declared a suspect. on 8 june 2006 charges were brought against the applicant and on 22 march 2007 he was issued with a full copy of his criminal case file. on 27 march 2007 the case material was sent for adjudication to the first‑instance court. telephone conversations with the latter were recorded on 8 april, 22 and 27 may, 7 october 2005. the parties disagree as to when the applicant learned about those recordings. was the applicant’s lawyer at the time of those recordings. was his lawyer with effect from 8 february 2005. that document also contained further similar entries relating to subsequent authorisations on 25 january, 31 march, 1 june, 22 july, 20 september and 16 november 2005. on 13 october 2006 the same prosecutor examined a further complaint from the applicant concerning the lawfulness of the recordings. she stated that the interception had been carried out by the constitutional protection bureau from december 2004 to january 2006. it had been done in accordance with domestic law on suspicion of large-scale tax evasion. on 13 november 2006 the same prosecutor refused the applicant’s request to have sight of the decisions authorising the interception of his telephone conversations as they constituted classified information. on 21 december 2007 the applicant lodged another complaint with the prosecutor’s office concerning the fact that his telephone conversations with his lawyer had been intercepted and that the recordings of those conversations had been played back at a court hearing. the applicant argued that the investigating prosecutor, i.k., ’s actions and his suitability for the position of prosecutor. to represent him in those criminal proceedings until 27 september 2005 and that the intercepted conversations prior to that date had therefore taken place between the applicant and o.s. as a citizen, not as a practising lawyer. lastly, in rejecting the applicant’s complaint under article 8 of the convention, she referred to that article and the permissible limitations contained therein. that decision included a note that it was final.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in warsaw. subsequently, on an unknown date the case was returned to the prosecution authorities in order to amend the charges. on 11 april 2005 the applicant was brought by the police to the warsaw psychiatric hospital in order to undergo the psychiatric assessment. on the same day he was ordered to come to the hospital on 18 april 2005, on pain of detention on remand. however, he refused to stay for the assessment, explaining that he had many urgent matters to attend to. in addition, there was a reasonable risk that the applicant would obstruct the proceedings or that he would go into hiding. he had been admitted to a psychiatric hospital on 23 october 2001, however the next day he had left the hospital on his own initiative. an appeal lodged by the applicant was dismissed by the warsaw regional court on 20 september 2005. the court relied on the grounds previously given. the applicant unsuccessfully appealed against all those decisions. the applicant underwent this assessment between 21 november 2005 and 1 february 2006. the applicant was released from detention on the same day. subsequently, on 5 april 2006, the applicant’s mother also refused to testify. the warsaw district court held further hearings on 27 april, 7 july and 16 october 2006 and on 24 january and 12 march 2007. on 12 march 2007 the warsaw district court gave judgment, acquitting the applicant on charges of domestic violence and convicting him of possession of a small amount of marijuana. the court sentenced the applicant to five months’ imprisonment stayed for three years. he stated that while the main reason for his detention on remand had been a six-week psychiatric assessment, he had been kept in detention for nearly one year. it further noted that in the present case there had been no breach of procedural provisions of the ccp since the detention on remand had been applied mainly in view of the applicant’s repeated refusal to comply with the courts’ orders. furthermore, there had been a risk that he could have gone into hiding. lastly, the court noted that as soon as the applicant’s parents and sister had refused to testify, the applicant had been released.
on 9 march 1966 the municipality of ohrid appropriated from several individuals the right of use of nationalised building land (одземање од понатамошно користење на градежно национализирано земјиште) located in an area e. the land in question included a plot owned by the applicant’s legal predecessor, measuring 764 sq. on 10 october 2002 he requested its restitution. an expert had carried out an on-site inspection and had established that the land in question had been undeveloped building land and was part of the ohrid lakeshore strip (крајбрежен појас на охридското езеро). on 4 and 9 june 2003 the state archives and the ohrid court of first instance informed the restitution commission that they had no information as to whether any compensation had been paid to the applicant’s predecessor for the appropriated land. by a letter of 26 august 2003 the municipality of ohrid confirmed that neither the applicant nor his predecessor had sought compensation for the appropriated land. on 9 april 2004 the land was restored to the applicant’s possession (предавање во владение). the minutes drawn by the restitution commission stated that, although properly summoned, the solicitor general did not attend the commission’s meeting. as stipulated in the minutes, the plot in question had been given to the association for its use even earlier, on 9 march 1966. the solicitor general argued that the association had submitted documentary evidence that contradicted the facts established by the restitution commission in that the land had been in use by the association and that compensation had been paid to the applicant’s predecessor. he further denied that any compensation had been paid to his predecessor or him. it determined that the land was intended for the construction of “beach service facilities and a leisure centre”, which could not be considered as being of public interest. in this connection he referred to the ministry of finance’s report of 16 march 2005 (see paragraph 14 above) and another on-site report of 13 july 2007 drawn up for the purpose of an “action for disturbance of possession” in which it had been confirmed that the land had been vacant – a fact that had been established by bitola court of appeal in an earlier civil dispute between him and the association (see paragraph 33 below). the supreme court held that the impugned judgment had predated 25 september 2009, the day when it had become competent to decide administrative actions in the second instance. that decision was confirmed on appeal by the supreme court in a decision of 23 june 2010. on 19 july 2010 the applicant applied to the public prosecutor (јавен обвинител на република македонија) seeking that protection of legality proceedings (барање за заштита на законитост) be instituted regarding the judgment of the administrative court of 4 september 2009, as well as regarding the rejection of his request for the reopening of the proceedings. on 1 february 2012, the administrative court quashed the decision. it appears that the civil and the inheritance proceedings are still pending. it ordered the association to refrain from further disturbances. according to a document from the land registry dated 3 september 2010, the historical records of the plot of land show that the association was granted use of the plot as of 9 march 1966. according to him, it had never been argued by the state that these neighbouring plots had been of public interest.
in 1995 dr marija arsovska, a psychiatrist whose name at the time was marija karanfilova (“the psychiatrist”), established a private practice called dr marija karanfilova’s independent psychiatric practice (самостојна специјалистичка ординација по невропсихијатрија „д-р марија каранфилова„ – “the practice”) where she treated people using carl jung’s analytical psychotherapy methods. the practice was assigned an individual tax number beginning with the numbers 503. in 2004 the practice signed a contract with the state health insurance fund (“the fund”) on the funding of treatment provided by the practice to health insurance beneficiaries. in compliance with the inspectorate’s orders, the psychiatrist applied to the ministry of health to have the practice re-registered and to change its name, as required by the new statutory provisions. on 28 february 2006 the ministry of health issued a decision on the registration of the private health institution dr marija karanfilova’s specialist psychiatric practice (приватна здравствена установа – специјалистичка ординација по невропсихијатрија „д-р марија каранфилова„ – “the new practice”) at the same address as the previous practice. the decision was delivered to several institutions, including the fund. the inspectorate conducted a fresh on-site inspection on 6 march 2006. on 17 april 2006 the central registry recorded the registration of the new practice as of 29 march 2006. on 29 november 2006 the fund notified the new practice that it did not intend to sign a new contract after the expiry of the previous one. it kept the same tax number as the new practice. the link between the new practice and the applicant company was not disputed in the impugned proceedings (see below). both the new practice and the applicant company continued the proceedings as the claimant. on 10 june 2008 the first-instance court granted the claim in part. it argued that the claimant was a different legal entity than the one which had signed the contract with the fund in 2004, as evident in the two entities’ different individual tax numbers. it also argued that the fund had implicitly recognised the legal continuity of the two entities as it had accepted reports submitted by the new practice under the contract of 2004 and had given notice of the termination of the contract to the new practice. on 10 april 2009 the skopje court of first instance dismissed the applicant company’s claim, finding that it had no standing in the proceedings (нема активна легитимација во спорот). on 2 december 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed the applicant company’s appeal and upheld the first-instance judgment. at a hearing held on 27 june 2008 the fund raised an objection that the applicant company lacked standing in the proceedings. on 11 december 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant company and upheld the first-instance judgment. it stressed that a tax number was a unique attribute of a particular entity and would remain unchanged, regardless of any structural or other changes to the entity.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1984, and 1977 respectively. the first and the third applicants live in moscow, and the second applicant lives in gryazy, lipetsk region. they were each found guilty of the administrative offence of “public activities aimed at the promotion of homosexuality among minors” (публичные действия, направленные на пропаганду гомосексуализма среди несовершеннолетних). he was charged with an administrative offence for doing so. on 6 april 2009 the justice of the peace of circuit no. on 14 may 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court dismissed the first applicant’s appeal. on 21 november 2011 the arkhangelsk regional assembly of deputies passed amendments to the regional law on administrative offences. the amendments introduced administrative liability for public activities aimed at the promotion of homosexuality among minors. this number includes a large proportion of homosexuals. they take this step because of the lack of information about their nature. great people are also sometimes gay; gay people also become great. the second applicant was ordered to pay a fine of rub 1,800 (about eur 45), and the third applicant was fined rub 2,000 (about eur 50). the amendments introduced administrative liability for public activities aimed at the promotion of homosexuality, bisexuality and/or transgenderism among minors; the same law introduced administrative liability for promotion of paedophilia. on 12 april 2012 the third applicant held a demonstration in front of the st petersburg city administration, holding up a banner with a popular quote from a famous soviet-era actress faina ranevskaya: “homosexuality is not a perversion. he was arrested by the police and escorted to the police station, where an administrative offence report was drawn up. he had to pay a fine of rub 5,000 (about eur 130). on an unspecified date the first and the third applicants brought proceedings before the constitutional court of the russian federation. on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court examined the complaint on the merits and dismissed it, for the following reasons:“... citizens’ enjoyment of the right to disseminate information concerning the question of an individual’s sexual self-determination ought not to infringe the rights and freedoms of others; in regulating of this right by means of legislation, it is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the values protected by the constitution. ...in order to ensure the child’s healthy development, states are required, in particular, to protect the child from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual perversion. ...the aim pursued by the federal legislature in establishing the given norm was to protect children from the impact of information that could lead them into non-traditional sexual relations, a predilection for which would prevent them from building family relationships as these are traditionally understood in russia and expressed in the constitution of the russian federation.
the applicant is an eritrean national and was born in 1990. he grew up in eritrea and currently lives in switzerland. once he had reported for duty, he had tried to escape but had been caught. he had managed to escape from prison one night when the guards were asleep. he had been picked up by ethiopian soldiers the next day. the applicant again gave an account of the alleged events in eritrea leading up to his escape. the applicant was heard for a third time by the state secretariat for migration on 29 january 2016. again, a member of a non-governmental organisation was present as a neutral witness, who did not note down any observations relating to irregularities. the applicant responded that he had spent two days at his parents’ home in a. after escaping from prison. nor had he provided a consistent account in that regard. moreover, he had made contradictory statements as to how long he had stayed at home between escaping from prison and leaving the country. shortly after reporting for duty, he had attempted to escape. they had been apprehended by ethiopian soldiers early in the morning of 4 october 2013 and taken to endabaguna. he emphasised that the interviewer had not questioned him about his scars, which he alleged were the result of that incident, or about specific events surrounding his escape from prison, pointing out that the latter issue had been raised by the representative of the non-governmental organisation who had been present as a neutral witness at the second hearing. it was only logical that he could not make detailed statements about the area, as he had no knowledge of that area and had fled during the night. in conclusion, the applicant argued that he was a refugee as defined in section 3 of the asylum act, on account of his fear of ill-treatment for having deserted from military service. on 9 may 2016 the federal administrative court rejected the applicant’s appeal, finding that he had failed to credibly demonstrate his asylum claim. it noted that it was not apparent why the applicant’s age – he was 24 years old at the time of his interviews – or level of education should lead to different conclusions as to the credibility of his account, and considered that his two statements concerning the end of his schooling, either in 2005/2006 or 2007/2008, could not be reconciled with each other or with his student identity card, which indicated that he was a student in 2010. they were issued to a few people who were considered loyal, in exchange for payment of significant sums. the eritrean government viewed illegal exits as an indication of political opposition, and tried to get both the reduction in defence readiness and the mass exodus under control through draconian measures.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in berezniki, perm region, together with her son, born in 2001. at the material time the applicant was teaching physical education in a secondary school in berenzniki. the boy’s photograph occupied the major part of the cover page and showed his face. on the last page the following was written:“if you wish to save a child from loneliness and give him a hearth and home, come to us!” in december 2007 the department of the interior replied that there were no grounds to institute criminal proceedings. in total, 200 copies of the booklet had been published. it was impossible to establish from which website the photograph of the child had been taken. the prosecutor advised the applicant to bring court proceedings to protect her rights. in her statement of claim the applicant complained that her and her son’s honour, dignity and reputation had been damaged by the unlawful publication of her son’s photograph in a booklet calling for adoption. the publication of the photograph had also affected her honour and dignity and her reputation as a schoolteacher. mr p., who had been engaged by the company for the preparation of the layout of the booklet, had found the photograph on the internet and placed it on the cover page of the booklet. mr p. submitted to the court that in 2004 he had gone travelling together with his friend sh., had sent him electronic copies of those photographs and since that time they had been saved in his computer. in 2007 he (mr p.) had been temporarily working for the publishing company and had been asked to prepare the layout of the booklet. the text and some photographs had been provided by the centre. it appears from the record of the court hearings that the applicant’s representative, g., submitted to the court that it had been established that the photograph of the applicant’s son had been used on the booklet without his parent’s consent, contrary to the requirements of article 152.1 of the civil code. in the subjective view of the witnesses, the booklet in itself had a positive scope. a photographer familiar to her, to take photographs of her son. in addition, it follows from witness statements that after publication of the booklet, the plaintiff showed it to persons around her and at her workplace and annotated it in an emotionally skewed way, and thus disseminated false information about herself and her son with reference to the photograph [on the booklet]. since the publication of the booklet, children in the kindergarten had started calling her son “little vagrant” and “poor orphan”.
the applicant was born in zimbabwe and lives in london. in or around 2003 he began suffering from a mental illness which led to his hearing voices in his head and at least two suicide attempts. he was also convicted of resisting or obstructing a police officer and failing to surrender to custody. on 18 april 2005 the applicant made an application for asylum. when he subsequently failed to comply with his reporting conditions he was treated as an absconder. the applicant made a second asylum application on 27 march 2008. in doing so, he described two violent incidents he had experienced in zimbabwe: first, he claimed that in 2000 he had been attacked by zanu-pf supporters with knives, sticks and sandbags while protesting about gay rights; and secondly, he claimed that later that same year he had been arrested for demonstrating and beaten on his back and the soles of his feet while detained at a police station. on 3 december 2009 the applicant applied for bail which was refused on 9 december because the tribunal judged he posed an unacceptable risk of absconding. on 16 february 2010 the secretary of state enquired of the applicant’s representatives about their intentions concerning the medical report. the representatives indicated they would reply in writing. the letter stated that his detention was unlawful and that he should be released. - your client does not have close enough ties (e.g. family or friends) to make it likely that he will stay in one place. - your client has not produced satisfactory evidence of his identity, nationality, or lawful basis to be in the united kingdom. he was being treated but still experienced some symptoms, including auditory hallucinations and ideas of reference. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed on 7 april 2011. as a consequence, he concluded that the applicant’s condition fell short of the severity required. the dangers of absconscion and reoffending are and have always been real in view of the claimant’s behaviour between july 2005 and his arrest in respect of the drugs matter. the applicant was released from detention on 15 september 2011 after being granted bail by the upper tribunal. on 22 february 2012 the court of appeal, civil division refused the applicant permission to appeal the decision of 31 october 2011, finding that the high court had been correct on every point. on 28 april 2012 the secretary of state agreed that the decision of 8 february 2011 refusing the applicant’s asylum claim was flawed and that the case should be remitted to the upper tribunal.
on 11 december 2002 the applicant instituted proceedings for restitution of a hotel in skopje which had been confiscated from his predecessor in 1948. on 7 june 2004 a commission responsible for such matters within the ministry of finance dismissed the applicant’s claim. on 16 november 2004 a second-instance commission set up within the government dismissed his appeal. subsequently, the case went back and forth several times between the administrative bodies and courts at two levels of jurisdiction. the proceedings are currently pending before the higher administrative court, awaiting a decision on an appeal by the applicant of 26 january 2016 against a judgment of the administrative court. on 3 july 2014 the applicant applied to the supreme court for a ruling that the length of the restitution proceedings had been excessive, to award him compensation and set a three-month time-limit for the court dealing with his case to decide on his restitution claim. by letters dispatched between 8 july 2014 (received on 3 september 2014) and 20 january 2015, the supreme court requested the case file from the administrative court. the case file, which was with the administrative bodies, was forwarded to the supreme court on 13 february 2015. on 28 april 2015 the first-instance panel of the supreme court found that the relevant period to be taken into consideration had started to run on 16 november 2004 (see paragraph 6 above). it further established that the case had not been complex and that there had been no delays attributable to the applicant. it concluded that there had been a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded him the equivalent of 810 euros (eur) in compensation. by a letter of 3 june 2015 (received on 10 august 2015), the supreme court asked the ministry of justice to provide assistance in delivering its decision because the applicant lived in serbia. between 25 august and 21 december 2015, the ministry of justice of the respondent state asked, on three occasions, that the relevant ministry in serbia serve the supreme court’s decision on the applicant. by a letter of 28 december 2015 (received on 10 march 2016), the ministry of justice of serbia informed the relevant ministry of the respondent state about the date of service of the supreme court’s decision to the applicant. in an appeal against the supreme court’s decision of 28 april 2015, the applicant complained that it had taken too long for that court to decide on his application. he referred to section 36(4) of the courts act, which required the supreme court to decide on a length of proceedings remedy within six months (see paragraph 14 below). he also complained that the amount of compensation awarded to him had been too low. on 21 march 2016 the second-instance panel of the supreme court ruled partly in favour of the applicant. it endorsed the findings of the first-instance panel regarding the complexity of the case and that no delays were attributable to the applicant, found that the proceedings had lasted for ten years, five months and twelve days and set compensation at the equivalent of eur 1,050.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in ossès. on 17 january 2008 he attended a rally organised by a basque agricultural trade union and by the gfam (a mutual-benefit land alliance), the “lurra”, on the occasion of a meeting of the technical committee of the land use and rural settlement corporation (safer) in the pyrénées-atlantiques département. that meeting had been aimed at producing an opinion on the use of the land comprising a farm which mr f.l. the rally was held in a political and trade-union situation where tensions had been heightened by the fact that the majority agricultural union in the département was backing candidates other than mr f.l. at the end of the meeting scuffles broke out between the demonstrators and the gendarmerie. the applicant was placed in police custody and brought before the bayonne criminal court under “immediate summary trial” procedure, and charged with intentional violence not entailing total unfitness for work, against gendarmes whose identity has not been established, and against a person exercising public authority, using or threatening to use a weapon, in this instance an umbrella. by judgment of 13 march 2008, the applicant was sentenced to two months’ imprisonment, suspended, for having struck gendarmes with an umbrella, which incident had not entailed unfitness for work on the latter’s part. in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had refused to answer questions during the investigation or to admit to any wrongdoing, and had denied that he had been carrying an umbrella. the judges noted that witnesses had nevertheless stated that he had attempted to cross the barrier by clambering over demonstrators and trying to hit the gendarmes with his umbrella. the applicant pointed out that he had refrained from appealing in order to calm the situation and in the framework of a friendly settlement of the dispute that had been the cause of the rally. on 24 december 2008, following a request from the bayonne public prosecutor’s office, the applicant was ordered by the police to give a dna sample, on the basis of articles 706-55 and 706-56 of the code of criminal procedure (cpp). he was brought before the criminal court on 19 may 2009 for refusing to give the sample. by judgment of 27 october 2009, the bayonne regional court imposed on the applicant a fine of five hundred euros. on 3 february 2011 the pau court of appeal upheld that judgment. as regards the legal aspect of the offence, it stated, in particular, that unlike the applicants in the case of s. and marper v. the united kingdom ([gc], nos. 30562/04 and 30566/04, echr 2008), the applicant had been convicted, rather than suspected, of an offence, which precluded him from arguing that the impugned judgment had entailed a disproportionate interference with his private life. relying, in particular, on the 16 september 2010 decision of the constitutional council (see paragraph 16 below), it held that “the provisions of national law applied [to the applicant] were such as to reconcile respect for private life and the protection of public order in a manner that was neither manifestly unbalanced nor in breach of the requirements of article 8 of the convention”. in connection with the substantive aspect of the offence, the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s plea that a sample had already been taken from his headgear during his police custody and that he was entitled to refuse further sampling, given that there had been no dna profiling the first time. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. his first plea was that the sample geared to identifying his dna and storing the corresponding data amounted to a disproportionate interference with his private life, having regard to the duration of the data storage and his personal situation (an easily identifiable person who was socially well-established, with a job, a family and a fixed abode).
the facts, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 26 may 2004 the applicant was dismissed by his employer, dp udarnik, a transport and transshipment company based in belgrade (currently registered as socially-owned company udarnik (in liquidation)). it became enforceable on 26 december 2008. on the latter date the insolvency proceedings were stayed (obustavljen) and the debtor continued its business activities. in his complaint of 31 august 2009, the applicant submitted that the debtor was an active company and, in that respect, provided a copy of the decision on staying of insolvency proceedings of may 2007, certified by the commercial court. the applicant unsuccessfully appealed and wrote to the enforcement court again on numerous occasions. after a division of property, he received 2.89% of his claim for costs. in february 2007 many employees on compulsory leave were made redundant and took part in the government’s “social programme”. on 9 july 2007 the novi pazar municipal court declared the dismissal null and void and ordered her employer to:(i)  reinstate her within eight days to a post which corresponded to her professional qualifications;(ii)  pay her the minimum salary arrears for the period 8 november 1990 to 16 march 2007, together with statutory interest;(iii)  pay her pension and disability insurance contributions for the period 1 january 1994 to 16 march 2007; and(iv)  pay rsd 11,700 for her legal costs. the judgment became final on 5 september 2007 and the municipal court ordered its enforcement on 3 december 2007. in the meantime, on 22 october 2007 the applicant was made redundant. the judgment became final on 22 january 2009. these proceedings are pending at domestic level. on 5 january 2004 the privatisation agency ordered the restructuring of the debtor. the insolvency proceedings are still ongoing. on 28 march and 2 june 2011 the bailiff found no available movable assets to enforce the settlement. on 18 april 2011 the court opened and terminated the insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. it said that any property of the debtor had become state assets. the date of its publication in the official gazette of the republic of serbia is not available on these registers. the enforcement courts ordered enforcement of the above judgments on 20 may 2005 and 24 april 2007 respectively.
on an unknown date in may 2003 the applicants wrote a letter to the highest authorities of the bd, namely the international supervisor for bd, the president of the assembly of bd and the governor of bd, while the procedure for the appointment of a director of the bd’s multi-ethnic public radio station was still pending. the members and statutory representatives of two of the applicants. she denied that she had torn up the calendar. there had been no intention to publish the letter. the letter had been sent to the authorities personally. ’s action and ordered her to publish the judgment at her expense and to reimburse the trial costs of the applicants. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows:“it is clear that the defendants’ letter was addressed personally (upućeno na ruke) to the governor, to the president of the assembly and to the supervisor for brčko district ... and it was not sent to the media ... the court established that the aim of the letter was to bring the attention of the authorities to (these) issues and to enable them to draw certain conclusions on verification of that information, and not to publish unverified information. the bd court of appeal quashed that judgment on 16 may 2005 and decided to hold a new hearing. relying on section 6(5) of the defamation act (see paragraph 41 below), the court held as follows:“... even if the aggrieved party is a public servant or a candidate for a post in a public body and he or she is generally perceived as having an important influence on public issues of political interest ... (a defendant) is to be held liable for defamation if he knew that a statement was false or negligently disregarded its inaccuracy.” referring to the first part of the letter (see paragraph 10 above), the bd court of appeal did not go beyond noting that it contained value judgments for which no responsibility could be attributed to the applicants under the defamation act. and the witnesses who had already given oral evidence before the first-instance court (see paragraph 14 above). regarding muslims and the destruction of mosques. was the author of the statement published in the newspaper was untrue, the court stated:“... on the basis of s.c. on 27 march 2009 the court of first instance closed the enforcement proceedings. made a point of removing from the wall (and tore to pieces) the calendar with the schedule of religious services during the month of ramadan and as the editor of the entertainment programme banned the broadcasting of sevdalinka arguing that that type of song had no cultural or musical value’), the court of appeal established that there was an evident inconsistency between what had been said to the appellants and what they had reported in the letter. furthermore, the statement in the impugned letter that m.s. had covered the coat of arms of bosnia and herzegovina with the coat of arms of the republika srpska. the appellants ... failed to verify the impugned statements beforehand as was their duty. according to the minutes of a meeting of the management board of the bd’s radio station dated 9 may 2003, there were two candidates for the post of the radio’s director, one of whom was m.s. it entered into force on the latter date and contains twelve annexes.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in constanţa. at the time of the relevant events, she was an investigative journalist working in constanţa. accepted to participate in a television show hosted by a.g. more precisely, it is the v. clan, in other words the clan of the v. brothers, who are at war with the supporters of r.m. or v. is personally involved in this war. i do not even know him, i have never seen him in my life and i have never spoken to him .... i have listened for fifteen minutes to her [the applicant’s] lucubrations, in which she tries to create about constanţa the image of a demonic city, in which the mayor runs everything, is a smuggler, has clans with kalashnikovs and bodyguards ...[a.g.]: i personally asked the police to intervene and arrest the perpetrators. ... prove the contrary if you please; i have never spoken to any of them, i do not know them. but this is indeed what has been going on for several years in the city of constanţa. if he is still live ... it is necessary to know that mayors elsewhere in the world, such as giuliani or chirac, have had what are called urban policies of prevention and that they were directly involved. i am talking about a sociological perspective, an area that in which i specialise. thank you ... the story we have followed is a violent one. further claimed that the defamatory statements the applicant had made against him in prime time on national television had seriously damaged his image as a public person and a locally elected official. the applicant submitted that her statements during the television show had reflected her opinion in an honest and ethical manner. on 11 october 2007 the constanţa district court dismissed r.m. was connected to several ongoing criminal investigations. was based essentially on the applicant’s statements, namely that the city was “torn between the underworld clans, in which the offenders retaliate against the mayor” (see paragraph 8 above), and that the same conclusion would have been drawn by anyone else who had watched the show. such allegations, made without prior verification and lacking factual support, were of a serious nature and had severely damaged the claimant’s image. furthermore, in trying to support her allegations with extracts of articles from the press reporting on the activities of r.m., had participated in the television show in his capacity as a public person or as a private one, so as to attract specific consequences in the balancing-of-rights exercise carried out by the court.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 27 november 1987 a claim was lodged with košice-okolie district court against some of the applicants or their predecessors. with this claim, the plaintiffs were seeking a judicial ruling declaring them to be the owners of an area of grassland. the other applicants entered the proceedings as defendants on different dates and on the basis of different legal entitlements as outlined in the annexed table. between 1988 and 2009 the first-instance court held a number of hearings, ordered expert opinions, dealt with other relevant evidence, and heard witnesses. it also took some time to determine the parties who were actually to be sued in the proceedings in view of multiple deaths among the original defendants and various transactions made in respect of the property in question. on 27 april 2010 the constitutional court delivered a judgment, finding that the applicants’ (or their predecessors’) right to a hearing within a reasonable time had been violated by the district court. it ordered the district court to proceed without undue delay and to reimburse the complainants’ legal costs. the constitutional court noted inter alia that the district court had failed to proceed with the matter between 1995 and 2009. it also observed some of the applicants’ lack of interest in those proceedings. that judgment became final on 19 july 2010. on 19 march 2013 the constitutional court rejected a fresh constitutional complaint that had been lodged by the applicants (except those listed under points 30 to 32). it found no further undue delays in the proceedings before the district court after the constitutional judgment of 27 april 2010. it noted the delay of seven months which the district court had taken to serve its judgment on the parties. however, it did not consider it unconstitutional. on 15 may 2013 the district court transferred the case file to košice regional court following an appeal lodged by the applicants listed under points 9 and 18 and some other defendants in the proceedings. on 12 march 2014 the regional court had to identify and deal with successors of some of the deceased parties to the proceedings. it partly upheld the district court’s judgment and partly dismissed the claim concerning some of the contested property. it also rejected the remainder of the appeal. that decision became final on 13 february 2015.
in disputes between the applicants and the domestic pension authorities, the first‑instance courts ruled in their favour, ordering increases of their pensions based on the rise in the average wages in the country since their retirement. the defendant authorities appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). under domestic law (see paragraph 18 below), when an appeal arrived at the court of appeal, a judge rapporteur of that court, if he or she believed that it complied with the necessary formal requirements, had to issue a ruling opening appeal proceedings (“the ruling”) and send it to the applicants together with a copy of the appeal. the government and the applicants disagree as to whether those documents were actually sent to the applicants (see paragraphs 11 to 13 below). on various dates set out in the appendix, the court of appeal quashed the judgments in the applicants’ favour, dismissing their claims for pension increases holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement. in the fifth applicant’s case the court of appeal held a hearing in his presence (see paragraph 14 below). in the other applicants’ cases the court sat in camera without summoning the parties. in the second to sixth applicants’ cases the court of appeal’s decisions became effective immediately since no further appeal lay against them (see the related legislative provisions in paragraph 16 below). the first applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the higher administrative court. on 26 october 2012 it upheld the court of appeal’s decision, without commenting on the complaint she had presented that she had not been informed of the appeal proceedings. according to the applicants, the domestic courts did not send them either (i) a copy of the defendants’ appeals or (ii) a copy of the rulings opening appeal proceedings in their cases. they therefore had no knowledge of the appeal proceedings prior to the court of appeal’s decisions in their cases. they learned of those decisions later, notably after their pensions had been reduced based on the court of appeal’s decisions. according to the government, the applicants were duly informed of the appeal proceedings. on 23 june 2012 the court of appeal sent the fifth applicant a summons to attend a hearing on 1 november 2012. the delivery slip is in his domestic case file. at the hearing, which he attended, the court examined the pension authority’s appeal in its absence and quashed the first-instance court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sinj. brought a civil action against the applicant before the sinj municipal court (općinski sud u sinju), seeking that a will be declared null and void. on 8 december 2006 the sinj municipal court adopted a judgment in the applicant’s favour. the civil division of that court has over forty judges. on 27 august 2009 a panel of three judges presided over by judge d.p., sitting in a closed meeting, reversed the first-instance judgment and upheld the appeal. it held that the first-instance court had correctly established the facts but had wrongly applied the relevant law. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) alleging, inter alia, that she had not had a fair hearing before an independent and impartial tribunal because judge d.p. was the father of a trainee lawyer working at the law office of v.lj. who had both represented the plaintiff in the proceedings. on 14 september 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as unfounded and upheld the second-instance judgment. it held in particular:“the case file shows that n.p., ’s son, did not participate in any manner in the proceedings at issue. this court therefore considers that there are no circumstances which put the impartiality of judge d.p. in such doubt as to exclude his participation in the adoption of the appeal judgment.” in a constitutional complaint of 29 june 2012 the applicant argued that even though n.p. had not participated at the hearings held in the proceedings at issue, there were no indications that he had not been otherwise involved in the case. he had been in a relationship of subordination (employer-employee) to the opposing party’s legal representative and the law office concerned had employed only a very small number of people. the applicant noted that the first-instance judgment in her favour had also later been reversed on appeal. the constitutional complaint was declared inadmissible on 3 october 2012 by the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in vilnius. the court established that while pursuing her professional practice, the applicant had on more than thirty occasions falsely claimed in writing that she had provided legal services within the framework of the state-paid legal-aid scheme. in addition, the court found that the applicant had forged the signatures of pre-trial-investigation officers on the above documents, submitted them to court officials to receive payment and thereby obtained payment. her conviction expired three years after she had paid the fine, that is to say on 24 august 2007. on 12 september 2007 the applicant asked the bar association to readmit her to the bar. the applicant challenged this decision before the vilnius regional court. on 25 april 2008 the court heard the applicant’s case. the court noted that the applicant had been convicted of a minor intentional crime. the reference stated that the applicant performed her duties well; and that she was responsible and had a sense of initiative. in this connection the lithuanian code of professional ethics for advocates underlined that an advocate should observe legal and moral duties (point 1.2.), the court of appeal concurred with the first-instance court’s finding that the term of the applicant’s conviction had expired and that therefore she could not be reproached under article 8 (1) of the law on the bar. nonetheless, taking into account the fact that she had committed the criminal offence in the course of her professional practice and that her professional practice had been aimed at committing crimes, of which there were more than thirty counts, it was reasonable to conclude that the applicant’s behaviour did not meet the criteria set out in article 8 (4) of the law on the bar. for the appellate court, insufficient time had passed from the date when the applicant had committed the crime to when she had asked the bar association to readmit her to the bar. however, it was then for the court to establish, of its own motion, whether sufficient time had passed for a person’s rehabilitation to be objectively validated. a person who claimed to have regained high moral character should bring clear and persuasive evidence that he or she had been following the ethical and disciplinary rules. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. she raised a number of arguments about the bar qualification exam and professional reputation, without maintaining that the criminal conviction had placed her in a worse situation than representatives of other law-related professions. 3k-7-168/2001 of 9 january 2001, see paragraph 30 below). moreover, article 8 (4) of that law read that a person should meet the criteria of ethics applicable to advocates. on the facts of the applicant’s case, the court of appeal therefore had been correct in finding that the applicant had not proven that she had regained high moral character, in particular given the nature of the criminal acts she had committed.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in astrakhan. in july 2004 the applicant was charged with murder of v. counsel sh. was appointed to represent him during investigation and trial. called the applicant “a robber and a drunkard”. on 21 february 2005 the applicant asked the court to replace counsel sh. alleging that the defence carried out by him had not been effective. on the same date the regional court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 21 july 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 21 february 2005 on appeal. according to the official documents, the applicant was not provided with legal assistance. on 6 june 2007 the presidium of the supreme court quashed the appeal judgment of 21 july 2005 by way of supervisory review. the applicant did not attend the hearing. on an unspecified date the applicant was transferred to moscow. counsel r. was appointed to represent him. from 1 to 3 august 2007 r. studied the case-file. on 7 and 14 august 2004 he met with the applicant at the remand prison. on 16 august 2007 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing. according to the applicant, he participated in the hearing by means of a video link. he did not submit a statement of appeal and made oral submissions to the court. the court also dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s complaint about the alleged ineffectiveness of the legal assistance provided by counsel sh. lastly, the court took into account that, prior to the jury verdict, the applicant had not complained about the quality of the defence provided by sh.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in pakruojis. the applicant’s conviction was upheld by the court of appeal on 29 june 2001 and by the supreme court on 18 december 2001. on 12 january 2007 the applicant wrote to the lithuanian bar association, which regulates advocates (lawyers admitted to the bar, advokatas), requesting to be admitted as a trainee advocate. on 20 june 2007 the bar association held that by failing to inform it of the conviction, the applicant had withheld information relevant to assessing his reputation, and that therefore he had shown that his attitude towards the standing of the lithuanian bar and towards becoming a trainee advocate was not honest and respectful. on 10 july 2007 the disciplinary committee of the bar association held that the applicant had committed a disciplinary violation by withholding information about his conviction by šiauliai regional court on 3 october 2000 (see paragraph 7 above). the committee emphasised the fact that the applicant had not mentioned the conviction or his “long prison sentence” in his application to be admitted as a trainee advocate, his curriculum vitae or in the other documents submitted in support. information about the conviction had been relevant for assessing his reputation. they postponed the hearing to a later date on each occasion. in setting out its reasons the court of honour had regard to the crimes committed by the applicant and noted that during the criminal court proceedings he had expressed no remorse (see paragraph 7 above). moreover, he had committed those crimes while working in the legal field. the applicant’s suggestion that the court of honour had issued a ruling on either of those dates that the applicant had not committed a disciplinary violation was therefore unfounded. on the basis of the written evidence, the first-instance court established that a.p. as to the question of the applicant’s reputation, the vilnius regional court had particular regard to the crimes of which he had been convicted (see paragraph 7 above). ’s participation in the disciplinary proceedings. the court of honour’s conclusion had been supported by point 12.1 of the code of ethics, which set out that the relationship between an advocate and the bar was based on mutual respect and good-will assistance, and by point 13.2, which stated that an advocate must also adhere to the traditions and customs which corresponded to the common principles of ethics and decency (see paragraph 37 below). the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. on 13 may 2009 the supreme court rejected the appeal. the notion of the implementation of justice would be discredited if any and every person was allowed to take part in that process, irrespective of his or her behaviour. the applicant’s case therefore did not give grounds for cassation appeal because it followed established case-law and was not relevant for developing it. on 25 june 2009 the applicant attempted to submit another appeal on points of law.
since 1994 the first applicant company, satakunnan markkinapörssi oy collected data from the finnish tax authorities for the purpose of publishing information about natural persons’ taxable income and assets in the veropörssi newspaper. several other publishing and media companies also publish such data which, pursuant to finnish law, are accessible to the public (see paragraph 39 below for an explanation of the finnish access to information regime). from 2006 the second applicant company also published veropörssi. the applicant companies subsequently cancelled their data request and paid people to collect taxation data manually at the local tax offices. on 29 september 2005 the administrative court rejected the appeal. the journalism derogation thus applied in the circumstances of the present case. furthermore, when interpreting the journalistic purposes derogation, account must be taken of the evolution and proliferation of methods of communication and the dissemination of information. in this assessment, account must be taken of whether or to what extent those activities can be seen as contributing to a debate in a democratic society rather than solely satisfying the curiosity of certain individuals. from the preparatory work on the amendment of the personal data file act (he 311/1993 vp), which was the act in force before the personal data act, it transpires in particular that the press considers that the right to freely disclose information also requires journalists to be able, in advance, to freely collect and store information. in this respect it must be decided whether a derogation is possible from the requirements relating to the processing of personal data on the basis of section 2(5) of the act, that is to say whether the impugned processing of personal data by publishing those data in the veropörssi newspaper came within the scope of the exception provided for journalistic purposes. by contrast, the processing of personal data collected in the company’s background file by publishing it and by rendering it available to the general public to the extent that has been done in the present case, and beyond the scope of the minimum requirements set out in section 2(5) of the act, cannot be regarded as compatible with the purpose of the personal data act. open public-interest debate, the monitoring of the exercise of power in society and the freedom to criticise, which are necessary in a democratic society, do not require the disclosure of the personal data of specific individuals in the manner and to the extent described above. consequently, satamedia oy also had no right under the personal data act to process personal data received in this manner. in addition, it follows from the preliminary ruling of the court of justice of the european communities that the exception provided for in the data protection directive, which concerns the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes, requires the disclosure of data to the public. it therefore does not concern disclosure of data to the general public, as explained above, but replying to a request by an individual concerning the personal data of another individual. therefore, this is not a case of treating this mode of transmission of data differently from other modes of transmission. in his reply the data protection ombudsman stated, with reference to the decision of the data protection board of 26 november 2009, that “when data on taxable income were collected in a database and published in large catalogues almost as it stood, the personal data act was applicable...”. since then the newspaper has not appeared. the requested tax information would then be delivered to the customer by phone call, text message or e-mail. the first applicant company was declared bankrupt on 15 march 2016.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in martin. on 20 october 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the martin district court (“the district court”) (file no. 10 c 60/2012), seeking payment of his wages plus interest in connection with the termination of his employment. on 17 february 2012 the district court issued a payment order in summary proceedings. as the defendant challenged the order, the matter fell to be determined by the court in ordinary proceedings. it took the district court more than eight months to deal with an application by the applicant to change the particulars of claim. in october 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint with the constitutional court under article 127 of the constitution, contesting the length of the proceedings before the district court. on 28 april 2015 the constitutional court rejected his complaint (file no. ús 172/20150), on the grounds that, prior to lodging his constitutional complaint, the applicant had failed to exhaust ordinary remedies, in particular lodging a complaint with the president of the district court under the courts act (law no. the constitutional court referred to the court’s previous case-law in ištván and ištvánová v. slovakia (no. 30189/07, 12 june 2012), and tried to distinguish that case from the applicant’s case. it observed that the case of ištván and ištvánová concerned proceedings lasting more than six years, which was substantially longer than the duration of the proceedings in the applicant’s case (three years). in the meantime, the district court had appointed an expert in economics, accountancy and tax, and had ordered the applicant to pay fees in advance for the expert evidence. that order was challenged by the applicant before the žilina regional court, but to no avail. the appointed expert then prepared her opinion between june and september 2015. subsequently, the district court scheduled a hearing for 16 march 2016. on that date the district court delivered a judgment by which it granted the applicant’s claim in part and dismissed the remainder of the claim. a written judgment was delivered to the applicant two months later. however, in their submissions to the court the parties failed to specify the exact date when the judgment was served on the applicant, and they did not provide appropriate evidence to confirm this. they also did not inform the court about any possible further development in the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is currently detained in vratsa prison. after that, the social worker had a talk with the applicant, who was in a highly emotional state. the next day, the social worker received complaints from five other inmates from the group. as a result, on 21 february 2012 the social worker recommended that the prison governor move the applicant to another group. six days after the first incident, on 21 february 2012, a guard took the applicant back to his old corridor so that he could fetch his belongings from his locker. the social worker carried out an enquiry over the following days at the request of the prison governor and obtained statements from eight other inmates, confirming the events. after the incident on 21 february 2012 he was brought to varna prison’s medical centre, where he was seen by the feldsher as the prison’s only doctor was on long-term sick leave at the time (see paragraph 40 below). according to a statement which he made in the course of the criminal proceedings against mr k.i. ( the consultation and the x-ray were paid for by the prison administration. he was examined and given an x-ray of the skull. on an unknown date in 2012 the applicant complained to the varna district prosecutor’s office about the incidents on 15 and 21 february 2012. ’s actions had amounted to causing moderate bodily harm. the varna regional court fully upheld the lower court’s judgment (see реш. relevant reports of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment 39. the visit included a visit to varna prison. it transpired from the examination of documentation on disciplinary punishments that there was at least one violent altercation between prisoners every week, leading to placements in a disciplinary cell and occasionally to a medical intervention or hospitalisation. ... this implies making available sufficient numbers of staff and providing them with appropriate initial and advanced training. a delegation of the cpt visited bulgaria again between 4 and 10 may 2012. in its ensuing report (cpt/inf (2012) 32), the cpt noted the following (footnotes omitted):“19. in particular, prison staff must be alert to signs of trouble and be both resolved and properly trained to intervene.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. on 12 january, 26 january and 10 march 2013 demonstrations were planned to be held in baku. it appears that the organisers of the demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). information about the demonstrations was disseminated through facebook or the press. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. all three applicants were arrested during the dispersal operations and were taken to police stations. the applicants were questioned at the police stations they had been taken to. according to a statement (ərizə) written by the second applicant at the police station on the day of her arrest, she refused the services of a lawyer. the second and third applicants were not represented by a lawyer. none of the material submitted to the court contains any records showing that the state-funded lawyer, mr v.m., made any oral or written submissions on behalf of the first applicant. the first-instance courts found that the applicants had participated in unauthorised demonstrations. the applicants also complained that their arrests had been unlawful and that the hearings before the first-instance courts had not been fair. on the same day he was detained pending trial. the circumstances relating to mr aliyev’s arrest and detention are the subject of a separate application brought by him before the court (application no. the files relating to the present cases, which, it appears, included copies of all the documents and correspondence between the court and the parties, were also seized in their entirety. no adequate inventory of the seized document files relating to the court proceedings was made in the search and seizure records of 8 and 9 august 2014. on an unspecified date mr aliyev lodged a complaint with the nasimi district court, claiming that the search had been unlawful. it held that the searches had been conducted in accordance with the relevant law. on 25 october 2014 the investigating authorities returned a number of the case files concerning the applications lodged with the court, including the files relating to the present cases, to mr aliyev’s lawyer.
the first applicant was born in 1983 and lives in ludbreg. the second applicant was born in 1959 and lives in slunj. before the military action, the vast majority of the population of krajina fled croatia. most of them went to bosnia and herzegovina, and also to serbia. on 5 november 1997 croatia ratified the convention. were killed in a house in veljun, a town on the territory of krajina. on 25 january 2002 the police interviewed m.m., on 7 august 1995 the croatian army had entered veljun. and she had not been registered as a member of any army. on 25 october 2006 the police interviewed the first applicant, who said that he had lived with his mother and grandmother in slunj and that his father had been a croatian policeman. on the same day another police officer, z.g., who said that she had not been in veljun during operation storm and had no direct knowledge about the killing of g.o. on 9 november 2012 the karlovac police asked the ministry of defence about the croatian army units which had been in veljun between 7 and 12 august 1995, the identity of their commanders and all their members. gardijske brigade “tigrovi”) under the command of captain lj.u., as well as the second infantry battalion of the first guards brigade (2. had been in command of the first company (prva satnija), m.b. and an anti-tank platoon (protuoklopni vod) under the command of d.s. he said that owing to the passage of time he could not remember the places they had been during operation storm. he had no knowledge about the killing of civilians in veljun. he then described the units of the first battalion and named the commanders he could remember.
the applicant company, service benz com s.r.l., is a commerciale company founded in 1993 under romanian law and based in adunaţii copăceni. on 11 may 2010 the applicant company, whose main activity is the retail distribution of fuel in specialised outlets, entered into a contract with company “n.” sarl for the carriage of “automobile lubricants and other goods”. the contract stipulated that it was incumbent on the company n. to “complete the transport documents with the requisite, correct and accurate information”. on the same day, two fuel tankers belonging to the company s.c. were loaded in bulgaria, in the presence of a tax office representative. after the tankers had been loaded the representative sealed them. before the two fuel tankers could reach their destination, they were stopped for inspection by representatives of the romanian fraud squad. after laboratory analyses, the romanian authorities found that the liquid transported did not have the same specifications as those indicated in the transport documents. by official report of offence of 7 june 2010, the fraud squad representatives decided to:– impose on the company “n”, the owner of the goods carried, a fine of ron 100,000 (approximately eur 23,000) for non-compliance with the regulations on goods subject to excise duty pursuant to article 220 § 1 (k) of the code of tax procedure (“cpf”); and– confiscate the goods (the liquid carried) and the two fuel tankers belonging to the applicant company, pursuant to article 220 § 2 (a) and (b) cpf. the applicant company challenged the part of that official report relating to the confiscation of its two fuel tankers. before the slobozia court of first instance it argued that:– it had only carried its customer’s goods and accordingly held no responsibility for their compliance with the law;– article 220 § 1 (k) cpf had not been applicable to it since, according to the transport documents in its possession, it had not been transporting goods subject to excise duty. by judgment of 15 november 2010 the slobozia court of first instance allowed the applicant company’s challenge and annulled the part of the official report relating to the confiscation of the fuel tankers. the trial court held as follows:– the transport company’s responsibility could not be incurred because it had not been in a position to verify the legal conformity of the goods and a tax office representative had sealed the two fuel tankers after loading; and– in the instant case the confiscation had therefore been unacceptable and unlawful. the tax authorities appealed against that judgment. on 28 february 2011 the ialomiţa county court allowed the tax authorities’ appeal: it quashed the judgment and, ruling on the merits, dismissed the applicant company’s challenge as being ill-founded. the court reasoned as follows:– the administrative offence laid down in article 220 § 2 (b) cpf authorised the ancillary penalty of confiscation, without specifying whether the property to be confiscated belonged to the administrative offender or to a third party;– furthermore, articles 24 and 25 of government ordinance no. 2/2001 of 12 july 2001 governing administrative offences provided for the eventuality of the confiscated property belonging to someone other than the administrative offender. the court gave the following reasons for its judgment:“... the owner of the confiscated property, the company service benz com sarl, is not an administrative offender, such that there is no need to [discuss] any fault on its part; the confiscation is conducted exclusively in pursuance of the law as an ancillary penalty; it can only be annulled in the event of breach of the relevant legal provisions. the ground of appeal based on negligence on the part of the transporter, who was directly responsible for the safety and lawfulness of the goods transported, is also well-founded.”
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in poznań. after their conversation he informed her that he had recorded the call and that he intended to use the transcript for an article. on 6 december 2006 the applicant published an interview with a.r. public figures, including samoobrona activists, had offered and accepted sexual favours in the course of exercising public functions. had told her:“i will pay if you go to bed with me”she also said that in july 2004 during a party organised by a.k. on the same page, to the right of the article, the newspaper quoted three prominent samoobrona activists referred to in the interview, namely k.z., but had never recommended her for any work. a member of the european parliament, lodged a private bill of indictment against the applicant. he demanded that the applicant be charged with defamation. according to the indictment the defamation consisted of the publication of the interview with a.r. he also claimed that he had been defamed in the published interview at the point where a.r. had accused him of nepotism by saying that he had employed his own daughter. on 16 march 2010 the warsaw district court ruled the indictment partially accurate: it then discontinued the proceedings for a probationary term of one year and ordered the applicant to pay 1,000 polish zlotys (pln – 232 euros (eur)) to charity and to pay the costs of the proceedings. with respect to his publication of the statements made by a.r. concerning nepotism (see paragraph 23 below). for the above reasons, in the district court’s view, the average reader should not have had the impression that m.c. ’s lawyer appealed against the first‑instance judgment. on 18 june 2010 the warsaw regional court upheld the challenged judgment, repeating in essence the same reasoning as the district court. regarding the applicant’s arguments concerning his right to freedom of expression under article 10 of the convention, it noted that “in the light of the journalist’s right to publish critical comments (prawo do krytyki dziennikarskiej), an individual’s right to legal protection of good name and reputation should also be taken into account”. on 6 may 2011 the ombudsman informed the applicant that she had found no grounds to lodge a cassation appeal.
the applicants were born in 1981, 1982, 1986, 1974 and 1971 respectively. mr gražvydas dūda lives in kupiškis and mr darius antonovas is detained in alytus correctional facility. the first applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison from 23 june 2011 to 30 september 2011. in 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in lukiškės remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded and the conditions unsanitary. nonetheless, the court dismissed the applicant’s complaint about unsanitary conditions in the prison as not actually proven. the applicant appealed but on 4 december 2012 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. from 22 october 2008 to 10 november 2010 the second applicant was detained in lukiškės remand prison, except for the following periods when he was moved to švenčionys police station:-  from 3 december 2008 to 10 december 2008;-  from 23 september 2009 to 29 september 2009;-  from 23 december 2009 to 29 december 2009;-  from 3 february 2010 to 16 february 2010. they had also been damp and his health had deteriorated. the court awarded him ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage on account of overcrowding. the applicant and lukiškės remand prison appealed. he complained about his conditions of detention from 20 july 2009 to 16 june 2010. the applicant’s complaints about his health and baldness were dismissed as unsubstantiated as the applicant had not provided any evidence that he had ever complained to doctors or the prison authorities about those issues. on 5 july 2013 the supreme administrative court held that the applicant had not had enough cell space for 319.5 days and increased his compensation to ltl 5,000 (approximately eur 1,450). on an unspecified date the applicant instituted proceedings for damages. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in lukiškės remand prison had been degrading: the cells had been overcrowded; he had been held together with prisoners who smoked; the toilets had not been separated from the rest of the cell; and his health had deteriorated. on 2 january 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant’s personal space had not corresponded to the statutory norms and awarded him ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage on account of overcrowding. the applicant was not in prison between 2 july 2009 and the morning of 13 july 2009 as he was in a prison hospital while from 12 january 2010 to the morning of 26 january 2010 he was held in tauragė police station. on 11 june 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages for the period from 29 november 2007 until 9 march 2010 when he was in lukiškės remand prison. in an appeal, the applicant also stated that the cells had been damp and the beds uncomfortable.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in novosibirsk. on 10 april 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery as part of an organised group and of abuse of position. on 11 april 2007 the zheleznodorozhnyy district court of novosibirsk remanded him in custody. he remained in detention pending the completion of the investigation and trial. referring to the seriousness of the charges, the courts extended his detention on the grounds that he might threaten witnesses, abscond, interfere with the investigation, reoffend or destroy evidence. on 13 april 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court of novosibirsk found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 18 january 2010 the novosibirsk regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh examination. the court decided to place the applicant in pre-trial detention. his detention was subsequently extended on the same grounds as described above. on 14 april 2011 the district court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. on 5 september 2011 the novosibirsk regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 16 january 2015 the government submitted a unilateral declaration. they acknowledged that the applicant had been detained “without well-founded justification on the basis of decisions rendered by the courts”, which did not “comply with the requirements of article 5 § 3 of the convention”. they stated their readiness to pay 1,500 euros (eur) to the applicant as compensation for his pre-trial detention from 18 january 2010 to 14 april 2011 and asked the court to strike the case out of its list of cases. on 10 march 2015 the applicant rejected the government’s offer. he expressed the view that the amount of money offered by the government was insufficient.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in hafnarfjörður. the ruv is an independent public service broadcaster, comprising television, radio and online services. the ruv broadcasts news programmes on television every evening at 7 p.m. that last for about 40 minutes. on 24 may, 28 may and 6 december 2010 the ruv broadcast news items, prepared and presented by the applicant, on its news programme at 7 p.m. the subject of all three news items was a loan transaction of 3,000,000,000 icelandic krónur (isk; approximately eur 19,736,842 at the exchange rate applicable in december 2010) between an icelandic company, y, and a shelf company in panama, that had been written off in its entirety. the news items were introduced by a news anchor and then a film clip was played, showing pictures related to the subject of the news item while the applicant narrated. on the evening news on 6 december 2010 the news anchor introduced the news item. on the same day, a corresponding article was published on ruv’s website. after the news broadcast, a issued a press release. the online news article was updated to include the press release. on 12 january 2011 a lodged defamation proceedings against the applicant before the reykjaness district court and requested that the words “[a]” and “threesome” in the above-mentioned statement of the news item broadcast on 6 december 2010 be declared null and void. before the domestic courts, the applicant maintained that he had based the news item on information from sources, both verbal and written, that he deemed highly trustworthy. by judgment of 3 november 2011 the district court found for the applicant. in determining whether the content of the news item is a part of the social debate and therefore of public interest, it should be kept in mind that [a] himself, as well as the companies he has represented, has been in the media and public debate for many years. [ a] has also been very prominent in business, both here and abroad, and in both a negative and positive light. [ company z], led by [a], was a large shareholder in [f] ..., and held an active share in g...bank. restricting that discussion through sanctions should only be done after great consideration. the media play an important role in disseminating information and opinions on social issues. public debate and media coverage have been very focused on identifying the preceding events and reasons for the collapse, and reporting on the financial business of individuals has often been personal. when the content of the news item debated in this case is assessed as a whole, and the disputed remarks are evaluated in context with other statements in the news report and in consideration of the visual presentation, the comments clearly implied that [a] had committed an act which was punishable in accordance with the penal code no. the applicant] has also not demonstrated that he sought information from [a] on the content while preparing the news report.
the applicant company has its registered office in valongo, portugal. on 18 july 2005 the applicant company brought enforcement proceedings against m.c. it also sought the payment of the interest accrued until the date of repayment of the debt in full. he accepted this appointment on 13 october 2005. these proceedings were joined to the enforcement proceedings on 15 december 2005. between 15 december 2005 and 3 march 2016 information was exchanged between the valongo court and the judicial enforcement officer about the date on which m.c. had been summoned and the documents in that connection. on 14 january 2011 the court could not contact the applicant company at the address it had provided to the court. on 16 december 2011 a hearing in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement was scheduled for 30 may 2012. for reasons related to the health of m.c. on an unknown date the hearing was postponed to 6 march 2013, the date on which it took place. for unknown reasons, on 23 december 2011 the chamber of judicial officers (câmara dos solicitadores) informed the valongo court that a new judicial enforcement officer was to be appointed. on 3 january 2012 a new judicial enforcement officer was appointed to the enforcement proceedings. on an unknown date before the 16 january 2012 another lawyer started representing the applicant company. between 9 april and 1 october 2013 correspondence took place between the new judicial enforcement officer and the court regarding the applicant company’s representation by a lawyer (whether it was represented in the case and by whom). on 29 april 2013 the valongo court adopted a decision against the applicant company in the proceedings for opposition to enforcement. on an unknown date before or during february 2014 the applicant company appealed against that decision to the oporto court of appeal. the oporto court of appeal upheld the first-instance decision by a judgment adopted on 20 may 2014. on an unknown date the applicant company appealed against that judgment to the supreme court of justice. following that decision, the enforcement proceedings were terminated.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows. on various dates between 2004 and 2008 the applicants were criminally prosecuted for and convicted of various offences under the russian legislation then in force. all of the applicants appealed, but their cases were examined by the appeal courts in the absence of their respective counsel. the appeal courts upheld their convictions. in the case of mr chernenko (application no. 51264/07) the first‑instance court ordered him to pay the legal fees incurred in respect of his representation in the criminal proceedings against him. on 6 november 2012 the supreme court of the russian federation quashed the order of the first-instance court and waived the legal fees that mr chernenko had been ordered to reimburse. following the communication of the applications, the prosecutor lodged requests for supervisory review of the criminal cases of ms ichetovkina and mr dubrovskiy (applications nos. following the communication of the other four applications (nos. 45075/05, 11343/06, 51264/07 and 59378/08), the prosecutor lodged a request for supervisory review of the judgment of the appeal courts. the domestic courts examined his request and expressly acknowledged that these four applicants’ right to legal assistance in the appeal proceedings in respect of their cases had been breached. the applicants’ cases were remitted for re-examination by the same appeal courts. the court requested additional observations from the government in respect of these four cases regarding the conformity of the second set of appeal proceedings with the requirements of article 6 §§ 1 and 3 (c) of the convention. when the applicants’ cases were heard and re-examined by the appeal courts, they were represented by lawyers, and they participated in the respective proceedings via video link. the details of the applicants’ cases are set out in the appendix.
during 1991 and 1992 serbian paramilitary forces gained control of about one third of the territory of croatia and proclaimed the so-called “serbian autonomous region of krajina” (srpska autonomna oblast krajina, hereinafter the “krajina”). the number of people who fled is estimated at between 100,000 and 150,000. milan zdjelar, the applicants’ father, was on the list and next to his name was a note that he had been shot in the head and a leg on 8 august 1995 by members of the croatian army’s “tigers” brigade. on 23 march 2004 the gvozd police again interviewed dragica zdjelar. she had hidden in the woods for two days while her father lay dead in the grass. each time the police replied that there had been no progress. on several occasions between september 2007 and july 2008 the state attorney’s office asked the police about the progress of the investigation. they had no other relevant information about possible perpetrators. on 12 may 2009 the police informed the sisak state attorney’s office that they had asked the ministry of defence for information regarding the members of brigade 153 of the croatian army who had arrived in crni potok after operation storm and the killing of milan zdjelar. or any other civilians during operation storm. had been a soldier in the unit under the command of i.p., on 22 november 2012 the police interviewed ž.l. had arrived and had taken the man away somewhere. after some time they had heard firing on a hilltop above them. had started walking towards the top of that hill and had come to a house where an old woman was standing wailing. on 10 july 2013 the sao sent to the sisak county state attorney’s office a submission by ž.l. he also alleged that he had been denied his rights in connection with his medical treatment. on 23 november 2016 the ocsao requested that the police in sisak carry out interviews with one f.k., on 16 january 2017 the police interviewed a.a., this judgment was upheld on appeal by the sisak county court on 18 june 2009 and by the supreme court on 5 october 2011.
the applicant was born in 1972 and currently lives in ukraine. the police were also informed that they could be in possession of a gun. according to the government, during the arrest the applicant tried to escape. later that day the kotovsk town court found the applicant guilty of the abovementioned administrative offence and ordered his administrative detention for twelve days. the applicant stated that had he not done so, the police officers would have killed him as they had killed a certain m., whom the police had suspected of being the applicant’s accomplice, during his questioning in the same police station on 18 march 2004. the applicant stated that two people had witnessed him being ill-treated by the police. he did not provide any details of how he had been injured. as a result, the applicant decided to stop making complaints to that prosecutor. statements of a number of police officers were relied upon in that regard. allegedly, the prosecutors to whom the applicant had brought his complaints of ill-treatment did not examine those complaints on the merits. the applicant’s further complaints of inadequate medical assistance while in prison were also rejected as unsubstantiated. no further details were given in that regard. those decisions contained no further details in that connection. no appeal against those decisions could be lodged. on 13 june 2004 the applicant was questioned as a witness concerning several cases of robbery. the accomplice had been with the applicant when the murder had been committed, but had not seen how it had happened. no documents regarding the applicant’s questioning of 15 june 2004 were provided. during questioning at later stages of the investigation and at the trial, the applicant, with his lawyer present, repeatedly changed his version of the events pertaining to the charges against him. the court also noted that during that period they had been questioned as witnesses concerning the relevant events and had taken part in other investigative procedures, notably crime reconstructions and witness confrontations. as regards the charge of murder, the court relied principally on the statements of one of the applicant’s accomplices and the applicant’s self‑incriminating statements made at the pre-trial stage, in particular during his interview on 15 june 2004 and during subsequent questioning, having noted that the applicant had been assisted by a lawyer when he had made those statements (see paragraphs 36 and 38 above).
the applicant was born in 1956 and is currently detained in the centre for persons in preventive detention on the premises of schwalmstadt prison. it sentenced the applicant, who had acted with full criminal responsibility, to thirteen years’ imprisonment. it further noted that the applicant had not completed any of the therapies offered to him to reflect on his offences. it further had regard to the report dated 27 december 2004, submitted in previous proceedings by psychiatric expert b., who had already diagnosed the applicant with a dissocial personality disorder with schizoid and psychopathic elements. on 13 june 2013 the federal constitutional court refused to grant the applicant legal aid and declined to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint (file no. on 23 january 2013 the marburg regional court, having heard the applicant in person, his counsel, the prosecution and a representative of schwalmstadt prison and having regard to the report of psychiatric expert j. dated 15 september 2011, again ordered the extension of the applicant’s preventive detention. the regional court endorsed the reasons given by the frankfurt am main court of appeal and by itself in the previous set of proceedings. however, he still had not completed a necessary therapy aimed at preventing him from reoffending. it referred to the conclusions in its decision dated 13 march 2012 and found that the factual findings and legal assessment made in that decision were still valid. in particular, the applicant kept refusing a necessary therapy. at the outset of the execution of the preventive detention order, the applicant was detained in a separate department for persons in preventive detention in schwalmstadt prison. in the latter building, detainees now disposed of two rooms, each measuring some 11 square metres, and could use the outdoor area during the day. since spring 2013, the number of staff in the psychology service responsible for persons in preventive detention has been increased and specific therapies, notably a sex offender treatment programme, have been made available. in the government’s submission, which was not contested by the applicant, both in schwalmstadt prison and in weiterstadt prison, measures were taken in the interim period between september 2011 and the entry into force of the new legislation on preventive detention on 1 june 2013 (in particular the act on establishment, at federal level, of a difference between the provisions on preventive detention and those on prison sentences, see paragraph 24 below) by which the conditions of detention for persons in preventive detention and the offers of therapy were gradually improved. the government submitted that these measures served to comply with the constitutional requirement of differentiating between preventive detention and imprisonment. the applicant refused any specific therapy addressing his offences throughout his preventive detention. in the period at issue, he participated in a weekly discussion group for persons in preventive detention. in may 2013 the applicant was repeatedly invited to participate in the sex offender treatment programme then available in weiterstadt, which he refused. he worked in detention and was regularly granted leave from prison under escort. on 18 november 2013 the marburg regional court again extended the applicant’s preventive detention.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sisak. on 25 august 1991 a number of members of the “wolves” (vukovi) unit of the sisak police entered the house of the applicant’s son z.t., on 2 september 1991 the sisak police lodged a criminal complaint with the sisak county state attorney’s office in connection with the killing of n.t. before 5 november 1997, when croatia ratified the convention, the police interviewed the applicant as well as potential witnesses d.f.t., on 9 january 2003 an investigating judge of the sisak county court heard evidence from the applicant. had also witnessed the arrest of her former husband and sons. on 21 november 2005 the applicant’s sons were declared dead by the sisak municipal court as of 25 august 1991. on 13 december 2006 the applicant again lodged a criminal complaint. had witnessed the arrest of the victims but had no information on possible direct perpetrators. on 9 october 2008 the state attorney’s office issued an instruction to the county state attorney’s offices concerning implementation of the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure, in which it indicated that an inspection of their work had indicated two main problems: possible partiality on the part of the individuals involved in the pending proceedings as regards the ethnicity of the victims or the perpetrators; and the problem of trials in absentia. the instruction advocated the impartial investigation of all war crimes, irrespective of the ethnicity of those involved, whether victims or perpetrators, and reiterated the duty of those working for the state attorney in that connection. also knew one of the individuals implicated but was afraid to talk about it. said that she did not know any of the individuals who had arrested the victims. in january and march 2009 the police interviewed d.k., who both repeated their respective prior statements. on 20 june 2011 the sisak county police lodged a criminal complaint against đ.b., on charges of war crimes against the civilian population. a member of the wolves, a reserve unit of the sisak police, were arrested. after they had been taken to ‘ora’ remains unknown.” and increased his sentence to ten years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in jonava. in 1994 the applicant bought an apartment in jonava. in 1998 he lost his regular job and was no longer able to pay for utilities. in 2003 the judgment was transferred to a bailiff for enforcement. the bailiff decided to direct enforcement against the applicant’s apartment. on 6 october 2004 he organised a public auction at which the apartment was sold to a third party for ltl 3,390 (approximately eur 982). since that date, the applicant has not had a permanent home. he submitted that he had been living in temporary accommodation, at times in unsuitable conditions, and often in exchange for manual work. between 2006 and 2008 the apartment was resold and gifted to different individuals on several occasions. in view of the alleged unlawfulness of the sale, the applicant claimed damages jointly from the bailiff and the bailiff’s professional liability insurer. they also argued that the applicant’s debt (ltl 2,861) and the enforcement expenses (ltl 540), taken together, had exceeded ltl 3,000, and thus the sale of his apartment had been in accordance with the domestic law. however, the court considered that this breach had not been such as to warrant the annulment of the sale. accordingly, it dismissed the applicant’s claim for damages. the applicant appealed against the jonava district court’s judgment. on 1 october 2009 the kaunas regional court quashed the first‑instance judgment and allowed the applicant’s claim in its entirety. accordingly, the kaunas regional court decided to award the applicant damages from the bailiff’s professional liability insurer. on 8 february 2010 the supreme court amended the judgment of the kaunas regional court in part. the supreme court then reiterated its own case-law that, where the sale of property at a public auction is unlawful because of a bailiff’s actions, restitution in integrum should not be applied; accordingly, it considered that the most appropriate way of protecting the applicant’s rights was by awarding him damages. however, the court considered that, in line with “the nature of the obligation and the principles of equity, reasonableness and good faith” (pagal prievolės esmę, atsižvelgiant į teisingumo, protingumo ir sąžiningumo kriterijus), the amount of damages in the applicant’s case had to be assessed at the moment of the unlawful act, that is, the sale of the apartment. according to the state enterprise centre of registers, the market price of the applicant’s apartment at the time of its sale had been ltl 12,100 (approximately eur 3,504).
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sumy. the applicant had relations with v., a female student born in 1989. on 24 march 2008 v. gave birth to their daughter. during their absence the applicant’s parents took care of the child. in october 2010 the child was admitted to a child-minding centre in sumy. during that time the child was taken care of by the applicant and his parents. on 28 september 2011 the applicant asked the police to establish the whereabouts of the child. on 2 december 2011 a forensic medical expert examined the child and reported a red spot on the chin, measuring 1.5 cm by 0.8 , which – in the expert’s opinion – was “a sign of an earlier abrasion”. v. was given access to the child only in the presence of the applicant or other persons that he trusted. on 8 november 2012 the sumy district police once again refused to open criminal proceedings against v. and f. on the grounds that there had been no corpus delicti. f. could not be interviewed as he had moved abroad. the investigator ordered that measures be undertaken to establish the whereabouts of f. during the investigation v. denied the allegations and submitted that she had been a victim of domestic violence, that she had been threatened and beaten by the applicant, and that this had prompted her to run away with the child on 20 september 2011; she also submitted that she had moved to the village of bezdryk, where her grandfather lived, and that she had had no sexual relations with f., her uncle. on 21 november 2013 a panel of experts carried out a forensic psychiatric examination of the applicant’s daughter. on 27 december 2014 the sumy district police decided once again to close the criminal proceedings. overall, the investigator concluded that the available material had been insufficient for him to conclude that v. and f. had committed the alleged crime. the court also established that on 20 september 2011 v. had taken the child and moved from the flat because of conflict between her and the applicant. the child had been accompanied to and from the centre by her mother. in that regard the court referred to the report of the local guardianship office, which stated that both parents provided adequate residential conditions for the child. the court dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s allegation that the mother was negligent with the child and that she might have exercised physical violence against the child: in contrast to the results of the medical examination of 2 december 2011 documenting the injuries on the child’s body (see paragraph 15 above), the staff of the bezdryk child-minding centre had signed a certificate stating that on 1 december 2011 the child had had no injuries; furthermore, the police had refused to institute criminal investigation in respect of the child’s injuries (see paragraph 19 above). overall, the findings of the first-instance court had been lawful and reasonable.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in osijek. on 27 april 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of trafficking illegal substances. the decision also stated that the detention could not exceed forty-eight hours. the applicant’s detention was ordered because g.d. had retracted his previous statement that he had been buying illegal drugs from him. furthermore, the applicant had submitted documents showing that he had his own candle-making business. the applicant was released that same day. on 31 may 2011 the investigating judge confirmed his previous decision. it was argued that the risk of the applicant reoffending continued to exist for several reasons. had been buying illegal drugs from the applicant, and the evidence showed that the applicant had had frequent telephone contact with g.d. secondly, the applicant had already been convicted of a similar offence, and another set of criminal proceedings concerning charges of trafficking illegal substances were pending against him. fourthly, he was unemployed and had no lawful means of subsistence. on 10 june 2011 a three-judge panel of the osijek county court, composed of judges d.k., held a closed session in the parties’ absence. on 14 june 2011 the applicant was again placed in pre-trial detention. on 17 june he lodged an appeal with the supreme court against the decision of 10 june 2011. acting as a single judge of the osijek county court, declared it inadmissible on 27 june 2011 on the grounds that it was not amenable to further appeal. this decision was upheld on 1 july 2011 by a three-judge panel of the same court, composed of judges r.š., kv-138/2011-3 of 26 may 2011 (pages 16 and 17 of the case file) shows that the claimant had already been finally convicted by the donji miholjac municipal court of the criminal offence of abuse of illegal drugs under article 173 § 1 of the criminal code, that is to say for an offence of the same type but in its basic form. therefore, since the defendant has not proved that the claimant caused his arrest by some unlawful act such as absconding or concealing evidence, this court considers that there was no contribution on his part to the ordering of his detention.”
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in matosinhos. consequently, she asked for a fresh assessment of the facts and the opportunity to state her case at a hearing. on 12 december 2007 the court of appeal held a hearing attended by the public prosecutor and counsel for the applicant. however, no examination of the applicant herself took place. in a final judgment of 19 december 2007 the court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction for threatening and insulting conduct, but reduced the sentence to 265 day-fines, amounting to a total of eur 530. the applicant paid the fine in several instalments. during the hearing before the court it was pointed out that in january 2016, five years after the fine had been paid in full, the entry concerning the applicant’s conviction had been deleted from her criminal record. in a judgment of 5 july 2011 the court declared admissible the complaint under article 6 § 1 of the convention and found a violation of that provision, holding as follows:“... 33. as before the court of first instance, the applicant raised, in particular, the question whether her criminal responsibility should have been deemed diminished, which might have had a major impact on the determination of the sentence. those factors are sufficient for the court to conclude that in the instant case a public hearing should have been held before the appellate court. 46221/99, § 210, echr 2005-iv, and panasenko v. portugal, no. the court cannot speculate as to what the outcome of the proceedings before the court of appeal would have been if it had examined the applicant at a public hearing (see igual coll v. spain, no. they confirmed that the amount awarded to the applicant had been paid to her on 14 december 2011. the procedure for supervising the execution of the judgment of 5 july 2011 was still pending before the committee of ministers. in a judgment of 21 march 2012 the supreme court refused to grant a review. it held that there was no cause for a review because the judgment delivered by the court of appeal was not incompatible with the court’s judgment. in the light of domestic law, however, a review of the judgment in the present case cannot be allowed on the basis invoked by the applicant, because the conviction is not incompatible with the european court’s judgment (article 449 § 1 (g) of the code of criminal procedure). on the other hand, the procedure followed by the court of appeal in holding the hearing at the close of which the appeal was determined was incompatible with what the european court has deemed vital in order to guarantee the rights of the defence. however, even where a nullity is irremediable, it cannot give rise to an extraordinary application for review of the judgment ...furthermore, as noted by the european court, it is impossible to speculate about the decision which the court of appeal might have taken if the convicted person had been examined at the hearing which led to the decision on her appeal, and, in particular, about whether or not the sentence would have been the same. in short, the conviction is not incompatible with the european court’s binding decision, and no serious doubts arise as to its validity.
in february 2011, after holding a firearms licence and a hunting permit for about ten years, the applicant asked the s. police department (hereinafter: “the police”) to renew his firearms licence for hunting purposes. he did not live in croatia but went hunting when he spent holidays there. when submitting his request the applicant relied on a certificate of the ministry of health (ministartsvo zdravstva republike hrvatske) attesting that he was healthy and thus capable of carrying firearms. following the applicant’s request the police carried out a background check. a report of 22 february 2011, available in the file, contains a finding of the police that the applicant had often been under the influence of alcohol when visiting croatia. on 18 august 2011 the applicant was summoned by the police to give a statement concerning the intention of a weapons commission not to renew his firearms licence. the applicant denied any alcohol abuse and stated that he had been a hunter for several years and that, if necessary, he could undergo any test concerning his health and the alleged drinking problem. in a further written statement dated 19 august 2011 the applicant contended that hunting was his hobby and that his membership of a hunting association was related to his social status. on 23 august 2011 the applicant made the same objections through a lawyer. on the same day the police dismissed the applicant’s request for renewal of his firearms licence and ordered him to hand over his weapons on the grounds that a police inquiry had shown that he had a problem of alcohol abuse. he also stressed that hunting allowed him to see his friends, and that those who had made the allegations against him did not really know him. on 6 february 2012 the applicant lodged an administrative action in the administrative court challenging the ministry’s decision. he also considered that it was not clear on which grounds the police had dismissed the applicant’s request. afterwards, in the resumed hearing in the parties’ presence, the applicant’s representative reiterated his arguments that the applicant did not have a drinking problem. he did not seek examination of further evidence. the relevant part of the administrative court’s decision reads:“by examining the classified file of the defendant the court ... established that the police officer’s conduct, while searching for and collecting information from citizens, ... was in accordance with the by-law on the conduct of the police in the procedure for issuing a licence for the procurement of weapons to a natural person ... and, based on data and information collected from interviewed citizens, found that the plaintiff is prone to common and excessive alcohol abuse, which indicates a possibility of weapons abuse. he also argued that his right to respect for his private life had been breached by the unjustified refusal to extend his firearms licence, which prevented him from hunting. in this connection he explained that he had been a hunter for over ten years, and that hunting was his way of maintaining contact with his friends. he also submitted a medical certificate indicating that he had no problem of alcohol abuse. on 6 february 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in dison. the applicant stated that she was a muslim and had decided, on her own initiative, to wear the niqab – a veil covering the face except for the eyes – in accordance with her religious beliefs. she said that she had taken the decision to wear the full-face veil when she was sixteen years old. she explained that her choice had been accepted by her family and friends and by her husband. she also stated that she had always agreed to remove her veil for identification purposes as required by the authorities, such as when issuing her identity card. on 18 february 2008 the vesdre district administrative authorities proposed an amendment to the district regulations regarding the wearing of the burqa in public thoroughfares and in public places ... . the president of the police district invited the verviers public prosecutor to express an opinion on that proposal. on 18 march 2008 the public prosecutor replied that he did not have any observations to make. the municipal councils of the three municipalities belonging to the police district – the municipal council of pepinster on 23 june 2008, dison on 26 june 2008 and verviers on 30 june 2008 – enacted the following provisions of the consolidated by-laws of the vesdre police district, which differed, moreover, from the original proposal. save where authorised by the mayor (bourgmestre) of the municipality, wearing a mask or using any strategem whatsoever for the purposes of concealing personal identity shall be forbidden at all times, at any public meeting and in all public places and in public thoroughfares. the wearing of clothing concealing the face shall be forbidden at all times and in all public places. however, a helmet, balaclava or other headgear may be worn where authorised by the legislation on the safety of workers or other legislation. on 29 august 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the conseil d’état for annulment of article 113bis. she argued that the provision in question expressly targeted the islamic veil, which she wore, and that the resulting ban constituted an interference with her rights guaranteed by articles 8, 9 and 10 of the convention and discrimination in breach of article 14 of the convention. she contended that the interference did not pursue a legitimate aim as the principle of secularism was not a constitutional principle and there could therefore be no blanket ban on wearing the veil. in any event, even supposing that the aim could be regarded as legitimate, the applicant maintained that the means were disproportionate in the absence of public disorder or threat of public disorder and thus of a pressing social need. in their memorial in reply of 18 april 2011, the three municipalities submitted that the impugned provision sought to guarantee public safety and not to regulate or restrict the exercise of any form of worship. the auditeur at the conseil d’état delivered a detailed 26-page report in which he concluded that in his opinion the applicant’s above-mentioned submission was well founded because public safety could not serve as a basis for a ban on wearing the full-face veil in all places generally open to the public, as no specific public disorder was associated with it as such. 213.849 of 15 june 2011, the conseil d’état, refusing to follow the opinion of the auditeur, dismissed the application for annulment of the provision ... . that judgment was served on the applicant on 23 june 2011.
on 3 may 2007 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the police alleging that in the past two years she had been a victim of multiple acts of domestic violence by her husband, b.b. the police also forwarded the applicant’s medical records showing that in april 2007 she had sustained a contusion on her back after being pushed from a chair by b.b. on 3 july 2007 the p. municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u p.) asked an investigating judge of the s. county court (županijski sud u s.) to open an investigation into the matter. in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge heard the applicant and b.b. the latter denied the allegations of domestic violence. the judge also heard another witness, v.k., who confirmed that the applicant had often complained of emotional and physical harassment by her husband and had twice sustained injuries as a result of the alleged harassment. on the basis of the results of the investigation, on 29 january 2008 the state attorney’s office indicted b.b. several times, telling her to ‘go back to her scumbags in the dump from which she had come’ and that she was worthless. he raised his hand [threatening] to hit her, punched her in the face and body, and ordered her to go to the corner of the room. in december 2004 he grabbed her head and banged it against the bathroom wall and on 27 april 2007 he pushed her from a chair, as a result of which she fell to the ground. to a position of helplessness and debasement ...” 11. guilty as charged and sentenced him to seven months’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. on 2 march 2010, following an appeal lodged by b.b., the s. county court quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case to the municipal court on the grounds that all the relevant facts of the case had not been established. it also examined further documents from other relevant state bodies concerning conflicts within the applicant’s family. on 2 december 2010 the municipal court found b.b. challenged that judgment before the s. county court. the state attorney’s office did not challenge that decision but the applicant lodged an appeal with the s. county court. on 28 february 2013 the s. county court declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible on the grounds that she did not have legal standing to challenge the decision on the discontinuation of the criminal proceedings.
the first and second applicants were born in 1981 and 1971 respectively and live in jurbarkas. the doctors noticed that the heartbeat of the foetus was weak and decided to perform a caesarean section. following the surgery, the first applicant gave birth to a daughter. the newborn baby was in a serious condition, so she was taken to a hospital in kaunas for intensive care. the government contested this and submitted that the applicants had been informed that an autopsy had been necessary but refused it nonetheless. had not been properly qualified to provide obstetric services. the state inspectorate for medical inquiries issued its report on 26 august 2009, in which it identified several shortcomings in the work of doctors who had provided care to the first applicant, and concluded that the medical services had been inadequate. the pre-trial investigation was opened on the same day and carried out by the jurbarkas police. in july and august 2009 the applicants were interviewed and granted victim status in the investigation. the applicants also submitted questions and their questions were forwarded to the specialists. therefore, the court ordered the prosecutor to ask additional questions of some of the witnesses and order a comprehensive forensic examination. on 25 june 2013 a court-appointed forensic expert delivered the answers to the applicants’ questions (see paragraph 20 above). among other things, the expert found that some of the doctors’ actions had not been in line with the relevant requirements, but there was no direct causal link between their actions and the applicants’ daughter’s death. on 8 april 2014 the case was referred to the jurbarkas district court for examination on the merits. the court adjourned the case until 12 may 2014. would not be well enough by 13 may, and that on the later dates he would be unable to represent her. the court adjourned the case until 14 july 2014 in order to give the accused enough time to acquaint herself with the case file. the applicants appealed against that judgment. they revised their claim in december 2011 and august 2013. relying on the available inquiry reports, as well as the specialist opinions and results of the forensic examinations delivered in the criminal proceedings (see paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 17, 21 and 23 above), the court held that the doctors at jurbarkas hospital had breached their duty of care and that their actions “had contributed” (turėjo įtakos) to the death of the applicants’ daughter, so there were grounds for the hospital incurring civil liability.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. that tendency continued into the following years. demonstrations were held, inter alia, on 2 april and 17 april 2011 and 20 october 2012. the second applicant attended the demonstration of 2 april 2011. according to the first applicant, he also intended to participate in the demonstration of 20 october 2012. the organisers nevertheless decided to hold the demonstrations as planned. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the fourth applicant was one of the organisers of a rally planned by several opposition parties. the rally was to be held on 18 october 2011 in goychay. the fourth applicant also intended to participate in that assembly. it appears that eventually the rally did not take place. as mentioned above, the demonstration of 2 april 2011 was attended by the second applicant; the demonstration of 17 april 2011 was attended by the first and third applicants. the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstrations of 2 april and 17 april 2011, the first, second and third applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no. 60259/11, 15 october 2015) (see also appendix). 67360/11 and 2 others, 11 february 2016) (see also appendix). in a photograph, submitted to the court by the first applicant and allegedly taken after his police custody, he is shown with a bruise on his forehead. namely, in their appeals against the first-instance court’s decisions the applicants complained that they had been ill-treated during their police custody, and requested the baku court of appeal to order a forensic examination of their injuries, to question particular witnesses and to obtain the review of the medical records drawn up at their check-in to a detention facility where they had served their sentence. the appellate court disregarded the applicants’ ill-treatment complaints and their requests related to those complaints. adopted decisions refusing to open criminal proceedings into allegations of ill-treatment in respect of the third and first applicants respectively. the applicants did not lodge a complaint with a supervising court against those decisions.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. the applicants were opposition-oriented activists. at the material time the first applicant was a member of one of the opposition parties, the popular front party of azerbaijan. he participated in a number of peaceful demonstrations organised by the opposition and on several occasions was arrested and convicted for that. on 12 october 2013 an opposition group i̇ctimai palata held a demonstration, authorised by the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). the demonstration was held in the mahsul stadium, a place proposed by the bcea. it was intended to be peaceful and was conducted in a peaceful manner. the participants were protesting against alleged irregularities and fraud during the presidential elections of 9 october 2013. all three applicants participated in that demonstration. after the end of the demonstration of 12 october 2013 the applicants were arrested at the entrance to a nearby metro station, inshaatchilar. the circumstances of the applicants’ arrests, their custody and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in huseynli and others v. azerbaijan (nos. 67360/11 and 2 others, 11 february 2016) and huseynov and others v. azerbaijan ([committee] nos. 34262/14 and 5 others, 24 november 2016) (see also appendix).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in sofia. in 1993 the applicant, acting as a sole trader, concluded a contract with a municipally-owned company under which she undertook to set up a shop in the city shopping centre. this contract was extended numerous times. in february 1997 the applicant was informed that the municipal council had refused her request on 29 january 1997. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the refusal to sell the property to her. that finding was upheld by the supreme administrative court in a final decision of 18 february 2005. in the meantime, on 8 may 2001 the mayor of kardzhali sent a notice to the applicant announcing the termination of the contract concluded in 1993 (see paragraph 6 above). this ruling was confirmed by the burgas regional court. on 24 september 2001 the mayor issued another order for the applicant’s eviction. before it entered into force, representatives of the municipal council broke into the shop and took possession of it. on 9 november 2001 the district prosecutor refused to intervene or to open criminal proceedings. on 11 april 2005 the applicant requested the municipal council to open a privatisation procedure so that she could buy the first floor of the shopping centre, in accordance with the final decision of the supreme administrative court of 18 february 2005 (see paragraph 8 above). on 3 july 2006 the district prosecutor refused to open criminal proceedings, observing in particular that, given that the decision had been taken by a collective body, no individual criminal responsibility could be attached to any of its members. in the same decision the council also prohibited any and all transactions aimed at disposing of the property. on 24 july 2008 the municipal council authorised the mayor to open a privatisation procedure in favour of the applicant in respect of part of the shopping centre’s first floor. the court found that the municipality’s failure to sell to her the entirety of the property, as decided in the final judgment of 18 february 2005 in the applicant’s favour (see paragraph 8 above), did not constitute a new refusal to initiate a privatisation procedure; rather, it represented a failure on the part of the authorities in question to comply with the said final judgment ordering the start of that privatisation procedure. she sought damages in respect of the municipal council’s failure to open a privatisation procedure by means of offering to sell to her the whole first floor of the shopping centre. her claim concerned the period between the date of the final judgment of 18 february 2005 and the date of her lodging the claim for damages – 18 december 2007. as regards her claim for non-pecuniary damages, the court found that the applicant’s great emotional suffering was established during the trial. the applicant appealed before the supreme administrative court which upheld the lower court’s findings in a final decision of 31 may 2010.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in riga. seven customs officials, including the applicant, were charged with exceeding their official powers or failing to fulfil their duties. with respect to the applicant, the court established that on 31 march 1999 at a customs control point he had acted contrary to the applicable regulations in the processing of documentation for the importation of the used semi-trailer. furthermore, the documentation processed had been incomplete. who was summoned to a court hearing but could not attend due to his hospitalisation. had testified that he had purchased the semi-trailer at the beginning of 1999. the vendor’s representative had turned first to a customs representative and then to a customs officer who processed the documentation. the semi-trailer had not been at the customs warehouse and it could not have been inspected by the customs officer. after the statements were read out, the applicant’s defence asked the court to explain on what grounds a certified copy of the statements of e.a. was included in the case-file and where was its original. the request was upheld and the prosecutor provided a reply. the court relied on a set of documentary evidence attesting to the fact that the documentation for the semi-trailer in question had been processed by the applicant and that the semi-trailer had not entered the customs territory. the applicant appealed against the first instance court judgment. could not be summoned to the hearing because he was abroad at the time. was summoned to the hearings of september 2007 and february 2008. on 11 february 2008 the appeal proceedings were resumed. the applicant’s defence counsel disagreed that e.a. anymore ... the evidence [previously] given by the expert [was sufficient]. i consider that his statements should not be read out... i consider that there are no justifiable grounds for [e.a.] the appeal court found that the applicant had formally performed his official duties.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in portoheli. on 12 september 2007 the applicant was convicted of forming a criminal organisation, of – together with others − kidnapping an adult, of robbery committed together with others, and of the theft and illegal possession of a gun, and was sentenced to twenty-two years’ imprisonment by the nafplio three-member court of appeal for felonies (τριμελές εφετείο κακουργημάτων) acting as a first-instance court (decision no. the applicant, who had been in pre-trial detention since 7 april 2006, was represented by a lawyer in the proceedings. following the delivery of the judgment, the applicant expressed his wish to lodge an appeal against the decision of the first-instance court and was escorted, handcuffed, by policemen to the registry of the court in order to do so. in the registry there were pre-printed forms for lodging an appeal, which included the following wording:“in nafplio, in the nafplio court of appeal today on ... day... and time ... came to me, the registrar of nafplio court of appeal .... (name), the ... (name) of ... (father’s name) and of ... (mother’s name) who was born on ... in ..., whose profession is ... and resides in ..., street ... no. ... identity card issued on ... by.... and requested that this report be drafted declaring that: (he) appeals before the nafplio five-member appeal court against decision no. .... of the nafplio three‑member court of appeal by which he was convicted of ... to a total sentence of ... requesting that the decision under appeal be set aside and that he be acquitted from the charge for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court.” under the above paragraph there was an empty space and then followed the phrases:“he appoints as his representative the lawyer practising in nafplio ...(name). this report was read and confirmed and is signed by the person lodging the appeal and the registrar”. the registrar completed the pre-printed form with the applicant’s personal data, the number of the decision against which he wished to lodge the appeal, the sentence that was imposed to him and the name of the applicant’s representative. he then signed the report and the applicant was momentarily released from handcuffs in order to sign it as well. on 7 may 2009 the applicant’s appeal was heard by the nafplio five‑member court of appeal (“the appeal court”). the appeal court by a majority dismissed the legal remedy as inadmissible on the grounds that no reasons had been included in the report, as required by law (decision no. the president of the appeal court did not agree with the majority of the panel, expressing the view that from the phrase “...for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court”, one could easily infer that the applicant was complaining about erroneous assessment of the evidence by the court of first instance. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the decision of the appeal court, arguing that his appeal should not have been dismissed as inadmissible. the applicant submitted that it was standard practice in all appeal courts for the defendants to be given a pre-printed form which included the phrase: “because the court of first instance did not assess correctly the facts of the case and declared the defendant guilty of an act he did not commit and for the reasons he will cite before the appeal court”. in the instant case, the nafplio court of appeal had printed a form in which the first part of the phrase was omitted and the applicant was not to blame for this omission. he was only given the form to sign and was handcuffed at the time, making it even more difficult for him to read the report thoroughly. the decision was finalised on 28 april 2010. the applicant served his sentence in patras prison until 23 july 2015 when he was given a conditional release.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in pazardzhik. on 10 january 2007 the police searched the applicant’s home, where they found five one hundred dollar (usd) bills, which turned out subsequently to be counterfeit. in may 2007 the applicant was charged by an investigator with having acquired those bills and with their possession, offences under article 244 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 16 below). however, the second charge was subsequently dropped and in july 2007 a prosecutor indicted the applicant for acquiring the notes “in the period between 2002 and 10 january 2007”, in the knowledge that they were counterfeit. it was noted in the description of the facts in the bill of indictment that in 2002 the applicant had sold a flat and that with part of the money had bought several one hundred dollar bills from a person on the street. the applicant had bought dollars with that money, usd 1,000, of which he had been keeping usd 500 “for hard times”. he stated that he did not know that the notes were counterfeit. the applicant’s brother testified as well. he confirmed that in 2002 he had sold his flat and had given the applicant money to buy dollars. he admitted that he was uncertain whether the counterfeit notes found in the applicant’s home by the police had been the ones the applicant had acquired in 2002. in a judgment of 25 january 2008 the regional court convicted the applicant. the regional court acquitted the applicant for having acquired the notes between 2002 and 26 march 2005. when summarising the facts of the case as it had established them, the regional court repeated what the applicant had said, namely that in 2002 his brother had given him money to buy dollars. it also referred to the applicant’s brother’s explanation that after 2002 the two men had regularly exchanged their bulgarian levs for dollars. it did not comment any further on the question of when the applicant had acquired the counterfeit notes. in addition, it found him guilty of another offence and gave him a suspended sentence of two years’ imprisonment. the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that there was no evidence substantiating the conclusion that, when he had bought the five hundred dollar bills in 2002, he had been aware that they were counterfeit. in a judgment of 24 april 2008 the plovdiv court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”) upheld the regional court’s judgment, endorsing its reasoning. but where is the proof that those notes in particular were acquired after that date? there can only be guesses ... and a conviction cannot be based on guesses.”
the applicants, all georgian nationals, were born in 1946, 1947 and 1957 respectively. at the material time they lived in different flats in a residential block (“the building”) constructed in 1952 and situated at 4 uznadze street in tbilisi. the plant was constructed in 1911 and reconstructed at a later date. for several decades it burned coal to generate power, before replacing it with natural gas. the plant provided the adjacent residential areas with electricity and heat. 613 was issued, stating that the plant was to be privatised and sold directly to a private company. the privatisation agreement between the government and the company was concluded on 6 april 2000. however, it continued to use some of the generators. (b)  action for damages and the friendly settlement 16. on an unspecified date in the summer of 2000 the applicants and other residents of the building brought an action for damages against the plant concerning the environmental nuisances emanating from the plant. (ii)  expert examinations commissioned by the court 18. on 7 march and 23 september 2002 the tbilisi regional court granted a request by the claimants and ordered the ministry of justice, the ministry of labour, health and social affairs and the ministry of the environment to arrange a number of expert examinations. an expert examination dated 28 october 2002 and carried out by the expertise and special research centre at the ministry of justice concluded as follows:“as the “tboelectrocentrali” plant does not have a [buffer] zone and is immediately adjacent to a residential building, the plant’s chimneys must be equipped with appropriate filters and other equipment to protect the population from the hazardous gases.” it noted that while the plant’s equipment responsible for the emission of toxic substances stood idle, it was impossible to determine the real pollution situation with which the residents had had to cope for years and noted that “the results were considerably minimised compared to the possible real picture.” it concluded that the permissible levels of noise were exceeded only with respect to two claimants and not in the applicants’ apartments. the expert opinion produced by the ministry of labour, health and social affairs on 17 january 2003 disclosed that, in some instances, the intensity of the electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of the building exceeded the permissible levels. the third applicant and another claimant were not included, without any reasons being given for their exclusion. as regards the air pollution complained of, the court found that the material before it did not prove a causal link between the emissions and the claimants’ health problems described in the forensic medical examination centre’s expert report. on 21 april 2005 the supreme court delivered a final judgment in the case. the supreme court rejected the complaint concerning the electromagnetic pollution as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kalinkovichi. after having checked the applicant’s documents, the officer informed the applicant that, having failed to declare his opel car when entering russia, he had infringed the russian customs regulations. on 11 june 2008 colonel b., head of the novozybkov customs post of the bryansk customs office, examined the applicant’s case. on an unspecified date the novozybkov town court of the bryansk region fixed the hearing for 8 august 2008. on 8 august 2008 the town court examined the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 11 june 2008. the court heard the case in the applicant’s absence. in the operative part of the judgment, the court advised the applicant of his right to appeal against the judgment adopted by the town court. on 13 november 2008 the regional court sent a letter to the applicant informing him that his appeal was dismissed. on 20 august 2009 the acting head of the novozybkov customs post of the bryansk customs office discontinued the enforcement proceedings in respect of the decision of 11 june 2008. according to the documents submitted by the government, the court decided to hear the case in the applicant’s absence given that he had been duly notified of the hearing and chose not to attend. on 2 june 2010 the judgment of 12 november 2009 was enforced. approximately 1,500 people were expected to attend. the events were organised to promote the right to peaceful assembly as set forth in article 31 of the constitution of the russian federation and the freedom of parliamentary elections in russia. on 20 march 2012 the government of moscow refused to agree on the venues for the rally and the march. according to the authorities, there was archeological and construction work going on in triumfalnaya square and the march, according to the indicated route, would “disrupt the normal functioning of the city’s infrastructure and traffic [and] infringe the rights and interests of people who would not take part [in the rally and the march]”. the authorities further suggested two alternative venues for the planned events, also located in the centre of moscow. on 31 march 2012 the rally was held as planned by its organisers at triumfalnaya square. on 17 april 2012 the justice of the peace of precinct no. 367 of the tverskoy district of moscow found that the rally held on 31 march 2012 had been organised in contravention of the existing procedure and that the applicant had taken part in it without having verified whether it had been legitimate. on 21 may 2012 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the decision of 17 april 2012 on appeal.
the applicants are all russian nationals living in different regions of russia. their personal details are set out in the appendix below. on various dates the applicants obtained binding judicial decisions ordering the state authorities to provide them with housing or perform other obligations in kind. according to the latest information available to the court, judgments became final as specified in the table below and either were enforced with a delay or have remained unenforced. the relevant details in respect of the judgments are listed in the appendix. the applicants on several occasions applied to different russian authorities seeking to accelerate the enforcement of the judicial awards in their favour. 73303/11 challenged lawfulness of his dismissal from military service alleging, in particular, that the judicial award in his favour of 28 may 2007 had not been complied with. by the final judgment of 12 may 2011 the moscow garrison military court rejected his action and established, inter alia, that the judgment of 28 may 2007 had been enforced in full on 25 march 2010.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in sesto fiorentino, italy. in 1998 the family moved to italy, where three more children were born: a son on 7 february 2000, a daughter on 22 july 2002 and a son on 26 february 2006. in the expert’s opinion, in order to prevent further psychological trauma being inflicted on the children by the mother’s behaviour, it was necessary not only to put a distance between her and the children, but also to have recourse to psychotherapy and improve the quality of the children’s psychological environment at their father’s home. on 29 june 2011 the florence district court found that m.g. moreover, she had sent the child to venice in april without his father’s permission and without notifying social services. the florence district court further ordered that the applicant should pay child maintenance to m.g. lastly, the court ordered that the applicant should bear all financial expenses in respect of the children, except medical expenses not covered by medical insurance, which should be divided between the parents. however, the applicant never availed himself of that remedy. on 25 january 2013 the city court rejected the applicant’s application. the applicant also submitted that the florence district court had taken into account the children’s wishes, and proof of this had been produced before the city court. on 12 march 2013 the appellate panel of the city court held an appeal hearing. on 9 december 2013 the deputy president of the supreme court of russia informed the applicant that there were no grounds to disagree with the decision of 30 september 2013, refusing to refer the case for consideration by the civil chamber of the supreme court. lodged an application with the dzerzhinskiy district court of st petersburg. on 10 december 2013 the city court ordered that an expert examination should be carried out so as to determine which parent the children would be most comfortable living with from an emotional perspective, with regard to the individual psychological features of the children and the parents, the relationships between them and the existing circumstances. rudeness, hostility and a dominating attitude were not part of his character. he could easily adapt to different environments. however, on the basis of an analysis of m.g. the st petersburg police had also conducted an inquiry which had not revealed any evidence of violent acts by the applicant against m.g. in the event of there being doubts during the examination of the application, the court may seek explanation from the person who lodged the application, and may also question the defendant on the merits of the application and, if necessary, seek explanation from the foreign court which delivered the judgment in question (article 411 §§ 3, 4 and 6). as of 28 december 2013 article 333 § 3 of the code of civil procedure explicitly provides that the examination of a private complaint against a first-instance court decision concerning the recognition and enforcement of a foreign court judgment is carried out with the participants in the proceedings being notified about the time and place of the appeal hearing.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lived in novosibirsk before his arrest. on 12 november 2010 the kalininskiy district court of novosibirsk convicted the applicant of aggravated theft and armed robbery and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. the applicant was represented by a lawyer in these proceedings. on 24 january 2011 an appeal brought by the applicant himself was examined by the novosibirsk regional court in the absence of counsel. the appeal court upheld the applicant’s conviction. the applicant has been serving his sentence in ik-8 in novosibirsk since 10 february 2011. dormitory surface area in square metres  number of sleeping places number of inmates assigned to the dormitory number of washbasins and lavatories 10-15 february 2011 quarantine section 50.2246-242 and 2 15 february – 30 may 2011 17219109100-1088 and 10 30 may 2011 – february 20137 11. the units were equipped with ten to fifteen kettles to boil water and tanks containing potable water. all the lavatories had individual cabins with doors that were one and a half metres high, opening to the outside. they submitted photographs of the washbasins and lavatories. the applicant acknowledged that he had an individual sleeping place. however, he underlined that the conditions he had to live in were cramped. he further submitted that the units had no access to natural light or had poor artificial lighting, that the ventilation did not work and that the air was damp. the food he was provided was not in accordance with the special diet prescribed for him. furthermore, inmates with tuberculosis lived in the same dormitory. there were only three lavatories (in units 17 and 7), they had no doors and the applicant had no privacy when using them. they were clogged up most of the time owing to the number of people using them. prisoners were only allowed one shower a week. the applicant had no access to potable water and only one washbasin out of four had worked. there were only two kettles for boiling water and the electricity was switched off during the day and therefore it was not possible to have boiled water.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in vyshneve, the kyiv region. it is not clear in what context the above confrontation was conducted. had been discharged on 22 august 2003 in good health. relying on that document, he issued a decision refusing to open a criminal case concerning v.k. it appears that he was prescribed anti-edema drugs and two different types of antibiotic. furthermore, none of the nurses questioned in the course of the criminal proceedings against p. (see paragraphs 63-73 below) was able to say what medication the hospital had had at its disposal to administer to patients free of charge. on 5 september 2003 the chief doctor at fastiv hospital wrote a letter to the fastiv town police informing them that an unidentified man with head injuries had been brought to the hospital on 25 august 2003 and that he had died on 3 september 2003. on 9 september 2003 the applicant found out about her son’s death from unspecified sources and immediately went to the fastiv police. given that removing the shoelaces of detainees was a well-known police practice, the applicant suspected that her son had been detained and asked the authorities to investigate that possibility. on 15 november 2004 a forensic medical expert (s.a.) it was eventually established that the direct cause of death had been swelling of the brain and meninx, which had blocked the circulation of blood in the brain. furthermore, the court allowed a civil clam by the applicant in part and awarded her uah 100,000 (at the time equivalent to about eur 6,100) in respect of non-pecuniary damage, to be paid jointly by p.v., without commenting on that document, the applicant submitted that as of 1 august 2016 she had not received any payment from fastiv hospital. at the same time, the case file material referred to in the judgment included the testimony of two witnesses who stated that k.m. later, in the presence of the police, he had hit her again and she had fallen to the ground. on 27 november 2013 the regional court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s judgment and discontinued the proceedings in that part as time-barred. on 9 august 2012 the baryshivka town prosecutor’s office (in the kyiv region) opened a criminal case against g.v., guilty of negligence with grave consequences and of concealing a criminal offence. was absolved from the penalty as the charges had become time‑barred. there was no appeal on points of law against those decisions.
the applicants were all employed at a state-owned limited liability company. their employment was terminated as of 3 july 2012. a certain part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of 3,557,737 hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 11,900 euros (eur)). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,675,702 (approximately eur 12,200). the second applicant withdrew his application on 25 february 2016. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,824,844 (approximately eur 9,400). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,650,902 (approximately eur 8,800). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 5,696,384 (approximately eur 19,000). due to subsequent amendments of the relevant legislation, the tax rates applicable to the fifth applicant’s severance payment changed retroactively. accordingly, the national tax authority found that part of the applicant’s severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 20% in the amount of huf 746,808 and another part of his severance payment had been subject to a flat-rate public charge of 75%, amounting to huf 1,558,949. therefore, the applicant was reimbursed huf 3,390,627 by the national tax authority. the overall tax burden imposed on the applicant’s severance payment was 30.7 %. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,099,845 (approximately eur 7,000). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,119,393 (approximately eur 10,400). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,886,807 (approximately eur 9,600). the eighth applicant withdrew his application on 14 january 2015. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,972,297 (approximately eur 13,200). the tenth applicant, s.s was born in 1965 and lives in monor. part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 2,376,658 (approximately eur 7,900). part of his severance payment was subject to the 98% special tax in the amount of huf 3,345,040 (eur 11,100).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in surgut, khanty‑mansiyskiy region, russia. the applicant was the leader of a trade union in a private company. his co-workers expressed a wish to hold a public assembly on constitution day on 12 december 2009 and the applicant, in his capacity as trade union leader, decided to help them. according to him, such help was “an indirect expression of his own opinion”. the applicant distributed banners and explained that it would be more practicable to stage solo demonstrations. to avoid prosecution for holding a public assembly without notifying the authorities in advance, the applicant suggested that his co-workers position themselves at some distance from each other, for instance on different streets. at the time, there was no federal or regional statutory requirement concerning the minimum distance between simultaneous solo demonstrations (see “relevant domestic law”). the applicant was then arrested and taken to the police station, where he was held for three hours. on 18 december 2009 a justice of the peace found him guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the code of administrative offences (“the cao”) and fined him 1,500 russian roubles (rub) (35 euros at the time). the court considered that the applicant and his co-workers had met in one place; the applicant had given instructions to the others and had distributed banners; he had taken them to the place of the demonstration. in the court’s view, the above circumstances disclosed the presence of a group event in the form of a static demonstration (a “picket”), and confirmed the applicant’s role as its organiser. thus, it was incumbent on the applicant to lodge a prior notification about this event to the competent authority as required by section 7 of the public events act (“the pea”). the applicant appealed noting that the pea defined a “picket” as a form of public expression of opinion where one or more citizens with placards, banners and other means of visual expression stationed themselves near the target object of the “picket”. however, there had been a separate “target object” for each solo demonstrator; the demonstrators had been positioned at a considerable distance from each other (for instance, thirty metres for two of them); thus, he could not be lawfully considered as an organiser of a group event. on 22 january 2010 the surgut town court upheld the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. at 4.07 p.m. on 7 october 2009 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 10 october 2009 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, to protest against the “political persecution of national radicalism”. venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane. a police officer from the police station that had received the notification repeatedly attempted to contact the applicant by phone, in line with the relevant decree issued by the minister of the interior on police tasks related to securing public order at major events, in order to arrange for a meeting. despite making several attempts and leaving messages, however, he could not reach him. on 9 october 2009 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act). in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no. the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision within the statutory three-day time-limit. on 15 october 2009 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case. it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place. the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted. the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
the applicants were born in 1981 and 2006 respectively and live in moscow. and g.f resided there under the social housing agreement with the city. applied for the privatisation of the flat. his wife chose not to participate in the transaction. and the housing department signed a privatisation agreement. the first applicant inherited the flat after her death. according to the official documents, v.f. did not move out and also continued to reside in the flat. lodged a complaint with law enforcement authorities. and that he had not received any money from her. he had continued to live in the flat and had let the first applicant move into the flat temporarily in view of the problems the latter had been having with his wife. on 5 july 2011 the prosecutor, acting in the interests of v.f., on 15 november 2012 the kuzminskiy district court of moscow granted the claims in full. suffered from organic personality syndrome and vascular dementia which had developed long before he had applied for privatisation of the flat on 22 august 2002 and sale of the flat on 14 may 2004. [ on 12 november 2013 the moscow city court upheld the judgments of 15 november 2012 and 29 april 2013 on appeal. on 27 november 2013 the district court issued a writ of enforcement in respect of the judgment of 15 november 2012 indicating v.f. on 3 december 2013 the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings. on 30 january 2014 the applicants were evicted. received the keys to the flat and could reside there. on 16 april 2014 the housing department signed a social housing agreement with v.f.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in podgorica. on 23 june 2008 the aforementioned court ruled in favour of the applicant and ordered the debtors to pay him, jointly, 45,000 euros (eur) plus statutory interest on account of the non-pecuniary damage suffered. on 27 july 2009 the applicant lodged with the court of first instance in podgorica a request for enforcement of the judgment dated 23 june 2008. the enforcement order itself was then adopted on 31 march 2010. on 24 april 2010 the debtors objected to the enforcement order, but their objections were rejected. on 21 june 2010, 5 july 2010 and 7 july 2010 the enforcement court ordered the debtors to disclose their immovable property. it appeared that no immovable assets had been registered in the debtors’ names. the record showed that the first debtor had had two motor vehicles. however, on 16 february 2011, when a bailiff came to make an inventory, the vehicles had already been sold to a third person. on 7 september 2011 the enforcement court ordered an inventory of the debtors’ movable assets. on 9 january 2013 a decision to auction the debtors’ specified movable assets was issued, and the applicant was ordered to deposit eur 200 for the auction costs. on 12 april 2013 a new inventory of his moveable assets was carried out. on 15 april 2013 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the bailiff. on an unspecified date in april the second debtor offered to pay the applicant eur 15,000, but the applicant rejected this offer. on 6 august 2013 the applicant informed the enforcement court that the second debtor had paid him eur 31,000 and that he considered the enforcement proceedings in respect of this debtor as final. as regards the first debtor, the enforcement proceedings continued. he was again invited to take possession of the assets in november 2013 and, once more, in july 2015. however, the applicant again declined to do so on both occasions. the court of first instance rejected the applicant’s requests for review on 30 june 2011 and 15 february 2012, respectively. the applicant unsuccessfully appealed to the high court, which upheld the first instance court’s decisions.
the applicant, who was born in 1963, is a member of the turkish parliament and lives in ankara. at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was the president of the diyarbakır bar association. on 2 june 2005 the daily newspaper hürriyet reported statements by a senior intelligence officer, who claimed that the national intelligence agency of turkey (“mi̇t”) had been intercepting the telephone conversations and email correspondence of a number of people on the basis of approximately ninety court decisions over the previous ten years. the intelligence officer stated that the surveillance had been continuous until march 2005, when the mi̇t had stopped it in order to wait for the entry into force of the new criminal code. in a decision dated 6 may 2005, relying on article 22 of the constitution and sections 2, 4, 11 and 16 of law no. 4422, the diyarbakır assize court had granted the mi̇t permission to monitor and examine all electronic communications in order to identify and arrest terrorist suspects with international connections as well as to collect evidence and to prevent crime by having early intelligence of it. on 6 june 2005, after reading the article, the applicant filed a criminal complaint with the diyarbakır principal public prosecutor’s office against the judge, s.t., who had delivered the assize court decision in question, the public prosecutor, the mi̇t agents who had sought permission to monitor and examine communications, and the mi̇t agents who had implemented the decision. relying on a number of newspaper and online articles, the applicant alleged that s.t. had decided that the records of all domestic and international electronic communications between 8 april and 30 may 2005 should be given to the mi̇t by the telecommunications companies. the judge had made that decision in complete disregard of the legislation then in force and without carrying out any research or requiring proof. the impugned decision had been of a very general nature since it had not included the names of any suspects or indicated the date, location or address of people whose communications would be intercepted. as a consequence, any person, including himself, who had used a landline or mobile telephone to communicate between the above-mentioned dates, had been a victim of the impugned decision. 4422, required the punishment of those responsible. in any event, there was no evidence that the telecommunications companies had given any records to the mi̇t officials or that they had monitored communications over the internet. on 25 october 2005 the applicant filed an objection with the siverek assize court against the above decision, alleging that the diyarbakır public prosecutor had failed to carry out an investigation into his complaints concerning an alleged violation of his rights guaranteed by articles 8 and 13 of the convention. on 30 november 2005 the siverek assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection, holding that the principal public prosecutor’s decision against prosecution had complied with the legislation since the mi̇t officials had implemented a court decision and had not committed any offence. on 6 april 2006 the ministry of justice decided not to take an action against the public prosecutor and the judge as it found that their acts fell within judicial discretion. on an unspecified date the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 31 october 2007 the third division of ankara administrative court dismissed the objection.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in budapest. the applicant was placed in retirement on grounds of disability and received a disability pension as of 1 november 2006, the amount of which was 91,363 hungarian forints (huf) (approximately 305 euros (eur)) per month. the entitlement was based on a final decision of the supreme court. at the material time the medical board rated her state of health at 46 per cent. the methodology for disability assessment changed as of 1 january 2008. cxci of 2011 on the benefits granted to persons with reduced work capacity was enacted on 29 december 2011 and entered into force as of 1 january 2012. it introduced a new system of allowances and beneficiaries of the old scheme were invited to re-apply under the new rules. the applicant lodged a fresh application for disability allowance under the new law. on 29 june 2012 the national rehabilitation and social authority assessed the applicant’s state of health at 59 per cent. she was categorised as a person suitable for rehabilitation on the basis of that assessment. however, owing to the applicant’s other circumstances, her rehabilitation was not recommended. in application of the relevant rules, the applicant’s rehabilitation allowance was established at 45 per cent of the minimum wage, that is, in the amount of huf 41,850 (approximately eur 140), by a decision of the budapest governmental office (directorate of pension insurance) given on 19 september 2012 and effective as of 1 december 2012. it was reaffirmed that her rehabilitation was not recommended. on 23 february 2016 the budapest administrative and labour court dismissed her action. having obtained fresh medical assessments and the opinion of the national forensic body, the court was satisfied that the applicant’s state of health was at 54 per cent (her locomotor, digestive and endocrinological conditions were calculated cumulatively as per the method prescribed in annex 1 to decree no. the court upheld the administrative decisions. on 12 september 2016 the kúria dismissed the applicant’s petition for review. it pointed out that such an improvement did not necessarily correspond to actual healing from a condition, but could also result from a change in, or stricter application of, the relevant rules of medical assessment. the applicant submitted that, as of august 2015, she no longer received any benefits. the legal or factual circumstances underlying this state of affairs are not known.
the applicant, who was born in 1992, was detained at the gaziantep prison at the time when the application was lodged. on 26 december 2011 the mersin magistrates’ court decided to restrict access to the file regarding an ongoing investigation against a terrorist organisation. on 29 december 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation and making its propaganda. on the same day the applicant’s police statement was taken at the anti-terror branch of the mersin security directorate, in the presence of his lawyer. he was mainly questioned about several records of telephone conversations as well as allegations about the burning of vehicles and throwing molotov cocktails. he was questioned at length about the telephone conversations that had been intercepted. the police read out the transcripts of the telephone conversations and asked the applicant to comment on them. he was further asked questions about the incriminating statements of one of his co-accused. the applicant used his right to remain silent. on 30 december 2011 the mersin magistrates’ court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on 16 march 2012 the applicant’s representative lodged an objection against the decision on the applicant’s detention, and requested his release. she also asked the court to lift the restriction of access to the investigation file. on 19 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection, without holding a hearing. the applicant’s representative filed a further objection against that decision. on 26 march 2012 the mersin assize court dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 20 april 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it. on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him mainly of being a member of a terrorist organisation, making propaganda in its favour, illegal possession of explosives, causing damage to property and having participated in an illegal armed demonstration. on 1 october 2012 the adana assize court accepted the indictment. on the same date the restriction on the investigation file was lifted. according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before assize court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is detained in krems. using the same gun as he had used for the previous murder. his potential for aggression was increased and he was emotionally unstable and could easily become aggressive. the applicant claimed that his lawyer had offered him a job and a small apartment if he were released. it referred to an expert opinion of 25 january 2009 by dr l., who had stated that the applicant’s condition had stabilised and that the danger emanating from him had considerably abated in respect of the closed and protected living environment of the prison. however, the same could not be said with certainty for a life outside prison. the applicant waived his right to appeal against that decision. he emphasised that he was willing to be treated, but that currently he was not receiving any therapy. moreover, he reminded the court that his lawyer would be able to supply a flat and a job for him if he were released. however, dr l. also found that no protection and support would be provided for the applicant after his release. the applicant in any event refused to undergo any more therapy. the applicant lodged an application for release with the regional court on 20 august 2010 and submitted additional observations on 16 november and 3 december 2010. on 7 december 2010 the regional court, ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention in an institution for mentally ill offenders, referring to the most recent expert opinion by dr b. of 3 march 2010 (see paragraph 17 above). however, the latter had not yet responded to a request for the applicant’s transfer. the regional court further referred to the reasoning in previous review decisions to avoid repetition, in particular the one by the court of appeal of 26 july 2010 (see paragraph 19 above). he explained that he had refused to be examined by a psychiatrist because he was not suffering from a mental illness. that decision was upheld by the court of appeal on 30 july 2012. on 26 march 2013 the applicant applied for release from the institution for mentally ill offenders. it referred to the “current” expert opinion of dr b. of 2010 (see paragraph 17 above) and statements by the prison administration and the social service of the prison (maßnahmenteam) that the applicant should not be released, as he refused to undergo therapy and still posed a threat. the court of appeal again referred to the reasoning it had given in its three previous decisions relating to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in yerevan. the applicant is a former deputy head of vardashen prison in armenia. according to the applicant, his father is an opposition activist. on 4 september 2007 the yerevan prosecutor’s office decided to institute criminal proceedings on the basis of an application made by r.k., the decision also mentioned that a forensic medical examination of r.k., conducted after he had lodged the application, had revealed bodily injuries of a minor degree. in substantiating the imposition of a non-custodial preventive measure, the decision stated that the applicant had a permanent residence, was not obstructing the examination of the case and that, if he remained at large, he would not abscond or obstruct the investigation. and made a corresponding entry in the medical register. on the same day the investigator, m., applied to the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan seeking to detain the applicant on remand. he referred to the nature and the gravity of the imputed offence, the punishment for which was imprisonment for a term exceeding one year. on 14 february 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of the district court. in particular, he sought to be released on bail, taking into account his good character, the fact that he had no previous convictions and had a child who was a minor. on 28 february 2008 the court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that it was not competent to decide on the question of replacing detention with bail, since that question had not been raised before the district court. on 4 april 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan granted the application and extended the applicant’s detention to 7 july 2008. on 17 april 2008 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. and, as a preventive measure, they made an undertaking not to leave their places of residence. on 30 may 2008 the investigation was officially concluded and the case was sent to the criminal court of yerevan. on 12 june 2008 the criminal court of yerevan decided to set the case down for trial. the decision stated that there was no necessity to change the preventive measure imposed on the applicant. on 12 january 2009 the criminal court of yerevan found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in metsamor. on 23 july 2011 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of threatening to use violence against the investigator in charge of the criminal case against his ex-wife. on 25 july 2011 the applicant was charged with the same crime. on the same date the regional court examined and granted the investigator’s application, ordering the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, namely until 23 september 2011. it found that the motion was substantiated, since the applicant partially admitted his guilt and the case materials provided sufficient grounds for believing that he might abscond and obstruct the investigation, having regard to the nature and degree of dangerousness of the offence in question. it also noted that less severe measures were insufficient to safeguard the applicant’s proper conduct. on 9 september 2011 the investigation into the applicant’s case was concluded and the case was transferred to the regional court for trial. on 13 september 2011 the applicant’s criminal case was set down for trial. the regional court found that the applicant’s detention was ordered by its decision of 13 september 2011. it also noted that the existing materials of the case were sufficient to conclude that the applicant’s detention was justified. on 19 december 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision. on 28 december 2011 the criminal court of appeal left the appeal unexamined. the criminal court of appeal found that there was no possibility under domestic law to appeal against the decision of the district court “to leave the applicant’s detention unchanged”. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision. on 20 march 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit. on 11 may 2012 the applicant filed a new motion with the regional court seeking to be released. he argued, inter alia, that the collection of evidence against him had been finalised and that there were not sufficient reasons to keep him under detention. on 4 june 2012 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s motion having regard to the dangerousness and nature of the alleged offence and the fact that the applicant might abscond and obstruct the investigation. on 17 august 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit. on 6 august 2012 the regional court found the applicant guilty as charged, imposing a sentence of one and a half years’ imprisonment.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. in the course of many of those demonstrations, they were arrested and convicted. that tendency continued into the following years. the first applicant attended the demonstrations of 20 october and 17 november 2012. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. on 4 march 2011 the first applicant was arrested and brought to police station no. the applicant contested the official version of his arrest. he stated that he had been arrested in an internet café by three persons in plain clothes who had failed to present themselves or give reasons for the arrest. he was also not given access to a lawyer after his arrest or while he was in police custody. did not make any oral or written submissions. the court disregarded that statement as non-reliable. only the police officers who, according to the official records, had arrested the applicant and the police officer who issued the administrative‑offence report in respect of him were questioned as witnesses. according to the applicant, until 6 march 2011 his whereabouts were unknown to his family and friends. only on 7 march 2011 was a lawyer hired by his family able to meet the applicant and to learn the details of his arrest, detention and the court proceedings against him. according to the applicants, they were never served with a copy of the administrative-offence reports or with other documents from their case files. members of the public were not allowed inside the courtroom, even though the court had not taken a formal decision to close the hearings to the public. according to a statement (“ərizə”) signed by the first applicant, he refused the assistance of the state-funded lawyer at the hearing of 20 october 2012 and decided to defend himself in person. during the hearings of 20 october 2012 and 17 november 2012 the court did not question any witnesses. in each case the sabail district court found that the applicants had failed to stop participating in an unauthorised demonstration. the second applicant was assisted by a lawyer of his own choosing during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 20 october 2012, but he was not represented by a lawyer during the appellate-court proceedings related to his participation in the demonstration of 11 march 2011.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in pula. in 1985 the applicant was employed by the t. company of pula. on 22 august 1992 he sustained a work-related injury. he continued working for the t. company in another post. on 6 february 2004 the applicant was made redundant following organisational changes within the company. the following day he concluded an agreement with the t. company shortening the notice period for the termination of his employment. on 19 february 2004 the applicant was given his redundancy notice and his employment was terminated on 23 february 2004. on 9 april 2004 the applicant was granted a disability pension with effect from 24 february 2004 on the grounds of his inability to work. he alleged that he would have received more income if he had not sustained the work-related injury in 1992. he claimed damages relating to the difference between his disability pension and the salary he had received until the termination of his employment. on 20 february 2008 the pula municipal court dismissed his claim as unfounded. the applicant appealed against the first-instance judgment, challenging all the factual and legal aspects of the case. on 12 september 2011 the pula county court (županijski sud u puli), relying on section 373a of the civil procedure act, dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows:“... this appellate court finds that although the first-instance court failed to take into account all the facts emerging from the first-instance proceedings which meant [the plaintiff’s] claim had to be dismissed, the decision on dismissing the claim as unfounded is in any event correct, therefore the first-instance judgment is upheld by application of section 373a of the civil procedure act. ...this appellate court therefore holds that the plaintiff’s claim was certainly to be dismissed, but for the reasons set out in this appellate decision; that is, that the reasons the first-instance court stated in the reasoning of its decision would not suffice for the claim to be dismissed. on 5 december 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lower courts’ judgments. he stated that the appellate court had relied expressly on section 373a of the civil procedure act, and that therefore he was lodging his appeal on points of law on the basis of section 382(1)(3) of that act. he made no allegations of any violation of his rights in respect of the proceedings before the first-instance court or the appellate court. on 16 october 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded. the decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 25 october 2013.
the applicants’ dates of birth and places of residence are given in the appendix. at the material time the second applicant was a member of an opposition group nida. the third applicant was a member of an opposition group i̇ctimai palata; he was also one of the organisers of several demonstrations held in baku. the first and the second applicants participated in a demonstration organised by the opposition on 20 october 2012. prior to that assembly, on 15 october 2012, the organisers gave notice to the relevant authority, the baku city executive authority (“the bcea”). the bcea refused to authorise the holding of the demonstration at the place indicated by the organisers and proposed a different location on the outskirts of baku – the grounds of a driving school situated in the 20th residential area of the sabail district. nevertheless, the organisers decided to hold the demonstration as planned. the second applicant also participated in demonstrations held on 12 january and 26 january 2013. the third applicant participated in a demonstration held on 30 april 2013. the organisers of those demonstrations gave no proper prior notice to the bcea. information about the demonstrations was disseminated on the internet or in the press. according to the applicants, the demonstrations were intended to be peaceful and were conducted in a peaceful manner. the participants of the demonstration of 20 october 2012 were demanding democratic reforms in the country and free and fair elections, and protesting against impediments on freedom of assembly. the demonstration of 12 january was aimed at protesting about the deaths of soldiers in the army, while the demonstration of 26 january 2013 condemned the use of force by the police against the participants of previous demonstrations. the participants of the demonstration of 30 april 2013 were commemorating the victims of a terrorist attack which had been committed in 2009 at the azerbaijan state oil academy. the police began to disperse the demonstrations of 20 october 2012, 12 january, 26 january and 30 april 2013 as soon as the protesters began to gather. the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstration of 20 october 2012, the first and second applicants’ arrests and custody, and subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in gafgaz mammadov v. azerbaijan (no. 60259/11, 15 october 2015) (see also appendix). the circumstances related to the dispersal of the demonstrations of 12 january, 26 january and 30 april 2013, the second and third applicants’ arrests and custody, and the subsequent administrative proceedings against them are similar to those in bayramov v. azerbaijan ([committee] nos. 19150/13 and 52022/13, 6 april 2017) (see also appendix).
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived before his arrest in the arkhangelsk region. he is currently detained in the town of severodvinsk. on an unspecified date the applicant, while being on the wanted list after having breached his undertaking not to leave the place of his residence, was arrested on the charges of violent acts against a public official (article 318 § 1 of the criminal code of the russian federation). on 18 may 2010 the severodvinsk town court of the arkhangelsk region authorised his detention. on 2 september 2010 the applicant asked the town court to apply a non-custodial restraint measure to him. the applicant and his lawyer attended the hearing and made oral submissions. the town court dismissed the motion for release, having referred, in particular, to the applicant’s criminal record, which included two convictions for having mounted threats of violence against a judge, an offence under article 296 of the criminal code, and for contempt of court, punishable under article 297 of the criminal code. in the meantime, on 20 september 2010 the applicant was convicted as charged. on 12 october 2010 the arkhangelsk regional court upheld the decision of the town court of 2 september 2010. with reference to its discretional powers under article 379 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation the appeal court rejected the applicant’s leave to appear, and held the hearing in his absence.
the three applicants were born in 1980, 1981 and 1983 respectively and are in detention in moscow. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was arrested on 8 march 2015 on suspicion of murder. on 8 march 2015 a court ordered his pre-trial detention, which was further extended on several occasions, in particular on 24 august and 25 november 2015. the appeals were dismissed on 16 december 2015 and on 8 february 2016. 77/1 in moscow (hereinafter “iz-77/6” and “iz-77/1”). in iz-77/6 the applicant has around 3 square metres (sq.m) of personal space, the cell is extremely hot in the summer and extremely damp in the winter, it lacks natural light and fresh air, while access to potable water and hot water is restricted. the applicant has not been provided with bedding and can have no more than one ten-minute shower a week. on 25 november 2015 the applicant was transported between iz‑77/6 and the basmanny district court of moscow in a prison van. m of personal space and had no access to natural light, fresh air, the toilet or drinking water. appeals filed by the applicants were dismissed on 8 april, 21 april and 28 june 2016 respectively. on 12 may 2015 the applicants were transported from remand prison no. 77/2 in moscow (“iz-77/2”) to the moscow city court and back in a prison van. 18496/16 out of its list and enclosed the text of a unilateral declaration with a view to resolving the issues it raised. on 13 december 2016 the applicant’s lawyer disclosed the terms of the government’s declaration to the media stating that the russian government and the court had “entered into an agreement under which russia [would] pay a compensation” of six thousand euro to the applicant, that “russia ha[d] acknowledged” the violations and that the applicant was “thinking over the offer but [would] most likely accept it”. the lawyer’s statements were published, in particular, on the websites of the vedomosti and kommersant newspapers and on the website of the ria novosti news agency. on 14 december 2016 the applicant accepted the government’s declaration. by letters of 12 december 2016 the applicants in applications nos. 61249/16 and 61253/16 were informed of the court’s decision to communicate their applications to the government. the court also provided the parties with declarations prepared by the registry, aimed at securing a friendly settlement of the cases.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in houten. on 30 september 2004 the applicant was arrested. ...... two additional conditions apply: 1. shall take place within the confines of the offices of the investigating judge or in the presence of the trial court in a closed hearing. these requirements of] relevance and direct necessity also apply to the preparation of requests and defences. this acceleration of the proceedings, in my opinion, benefits all parties to the proceedings. i am prepared to advise the ministers of justice and of internal affairs and kingdom relations, on the basis of section 86(2) of the 2002 intelligence and security services act, to consider this in any exemption decision. the regional court ordered the investigating judge to hear thirteen witnesses referred to by name and seven witnesses referred to by a code name or number. it appears that he refused to answer certain questions because of his duty of secrecy. on 8 july 2005 the regional court gave an order for two further named witnesses to be heard but dismissed the defence’s objection for the remainder. the regional court remitted the case to the investigating judge for the hearing of the witnesses authorised to be heard, in so far as they had not already been heard, and requested the prosecutor to add documents to the file including a description – to be prepared by the aivd – of the documents found in the applicant’s desk. finding no indication that the aivd information had been leaked by someone else, the regional court yet again refused to hear the named witness and the fifteen unnamed witnesses. the trial hearing was resumed on 6 and 7 october 2005. the regional court gave judgment on 14 december 2005. the applicant lodged an appeal with the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague. the defence protested that this expert lacked independence precisely for that reason. the applicant announced that he might, in his own defence, have to reveal state secret information. and“the advocate general has given the undertaking, at the court of appeal’s hearing of 2 september 2006, that [the applicant] shall not be prosecuted if a violation of the duty of secrecy by [the applicant] is justified by reliance on article 6 of the convention, with due regard to the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity inherent pertaining to a legal defence (strafuitsluitingsgrond). for that purpose it is not necessary, in the opinion of the court of appeal, to possess or have access to entirely uncensored versions of the information. if, however, the trial judge takes the view, whether or not it be in response to a request or a legal argument (verweer) put forward by the defence, that the interest of the defence requires that information falling under the duty of secrecy is disclosed by the suspect, the court will have to weigh the conflicting interests in the case.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in bobadela. on 9 december 1993 the applicant was diagnosed with bartholinitis, a gynaecological disease, on the left side of her vagina (bartholinite à esquerda). she started treatment, which included drainages (drenagens). after each drainage the bartholin gland would swell, causing the applicant considerable pain. she would thus require a second drainage and painkillers. on 21 may 1995 the applicant was admitted to the chlc for a surgical procedure to remove the left bartholin gland. on an unknown date after being discharged, the applicant began to experience intense pain and a loss of sensation in the vagina. she also suffered from urinary incontinence, had difficulty sitting and walking, and could not have sexual relations. on an unknown date the applicant was informed after being examined at a private clinic that the left pudendal nerve (nervo pudenda do lado esquerdo) had been injured during the operation. on 4 october 2013 the lisbon administrative court ruled partly in favour of the applicant. as a consequence, she had difficulty walking, sitting and having sexual relations, which, all together, made her feel diminished as a woman. as a consequence, the various requirements of the obligation to pay compensation had been verified and the first-instance court had decided on compensation in an equitable and proper way. in addition, there is no medical solution to her condition. she had already had unbearable pain and symptoms of depression before [surgery]. this means that the plaintiff’s complaints are not new and that the surgical procedure only aggravated an already difficult situation, a fact which cannot be ignored when setting the amount of compensation. on 29 october 2014 the attorney general’s office attached to the supreme administrative court applied to the supreme administrative court to have the judgment of 9 october 2014 declared null and void (nulidade do acórdão) in the part concerning the amount awarded for non-pecuniary damage. ...during that surgical procedure the left pudendal nerve was partly damaged. iv- in view of the factual basis of the judgment and having regard to the fact that ‘in the absence of unlikely and unexpected occurrences doctors would have cured the plaintiff’s illness and she could have returned to her normal life’, the decision setting the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage should not have taken account of the plaintiff’s pain and symptoms of depression prior to the surgical intervention as if they had worsened. v – the reasoning in the judgment leads logically to a different decision. on 29 january 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeals by the attorney general’s office and the applicant and upheld its judgment of 9 october 2014.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is currently detained in the trenčín hospital for charged and convicted persons. the district court took into account, inter alia, the nature of the criminal charge and the fact that the applicant had been having long-term psychiatric treatment. an interlocutory appeal by the applicant was unsuccessful. on 1 october 2012 the applicant was indicted to stand trial on the above charges before the district court. in addition, they referred to a witness statement that the applicant had written a will where he had expressed the alleged intention to commit a terrorist suicide attack. it examined oral and documentary evidence, including evidence from several experts. resolving that contradiction was imperative in order to establish whether or not the applicant was criminally responsible. he could not live without that medicine, even in detention, as he required treatment and sessions with a psychiatrist. moreover, there was no risk he would continue his criminal activity if he was under medication and being properly treated, or, alternatively, if he was committed to a psychiatric institution, as he feared for the future after the charges had been brought against him. they also supported his request that his detention be replaced by supervision by a parole officer. on 10 january 2014 the district court heard the applicant, his lawyer, and the public prosecution service as regards his request for release. it enquired whether the applicant was being provided with the drugs he had been prescribed and whether the detention centre was able to provide the applicant with his treatment. on 13 january 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released and his supplementary requests, a decision that was upheld by the regional court on 29 january 2014 after an interlocutory appeal by the applicant. they observed that he had created explosives and contemplated where to plant them over a long time and in a systematic way. there was no separate consideration of the applicant’s mental condition as such. on 20 march 2014 it also ordered that the applicant be admitted to the psychiatric department of the trenčín hospital for charged and convicted persons in order to have his mental health examined. on 10 july 2014 the district court again found the applicant guilty. subsequently, the case returned to the district court and the applicant remained detained pending trial as of 14 april 2016. it also ordered protective supervision lasting thirty-six months. the applicant appealed and those proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in staryy oskol. the applicant took part in the cleaning up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. on 5 july 2002 the staryy oskol town court of the belgorod region granted the applicant’s action against the belgorod regional administration and awarded him and his family, comprising two members, a flat in the town of staryy oskol and 3,000 russian roubles (approximately 100 euros) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. the representative of the regional administration did not attend the hearing: in writing he had requested the town court to adjudicate the case in his absence. on 19 august 2002 the staryy oskol town court issued a writ of execution and enforcement proceedings were instituted. on 9 october 2002 the belgorod regional administration lodged a statement of appeal against the judgment of 5 july 2002. the administration also asked the town court to restore the ten-day time-limit for lodging the appeal. the administration claimed that it had received a copy of the judgment of 5 july 2002 by fax on 8 october 2002. the administration asked to stop the enforcement proceedings. the applicant insisted that there had been no reason to restore the time-limit. he noted that a copy of the judgment had been forwarded to the regional administration at the end of july 2002. on 20 january 2003 the staryy oskol town court, in the new examination of the case, accepted the applicant’s action in part. the relevant part of the judgment read as follows:“order that the belgorod regional administration should provide ... mr babynin g.a. and his family with housing premises, which satisfy sanitary and technical requirements, in their turn according to the housing waiting list of families having persons with disabilities and individuals who had taken part in the cleaning operation at the site of the chernobyl nuclear plant. dismiss [the claim] for compensation for non-pecuniary damage.” the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 31 january 2003. on 13 february 2003 a writ of execution was issued and enforcement proceedings were instituted. according to the applicant, from 5 to 12 march 2004 a group of five people, including the applicant, began a hunger strike to protest against the poor level of welfare protection provided for the chernobyl victims. on 16 april 2004 the mayor of staryy oskol decided to provide the applicant with a flat measuring 55,05 m². on 21 april 2004 the applicant received from the mayor an occupancy voucher in respect of the flat assigned to him.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in barnaul. the application was brought on his behalf by his mother. on the same day the district court granted an application from the investigator to place the applicant in a psychiatric hospital for a psychiatric forensic examination. in particular, they submitted that when the applicant had seen them he had started to run in the opposite direction. when they had lifted him up they had noticed that he had old abrasions on the left side of his face and a bleeding nose, probably from falling on the pavement. the applicant had then been escorted to the police car and taken to the police station. who had been waiting for s. and k. in the police car. after she had arrived, the applicant had started complaining that he felt unwell and that he had been beaten by the police, after which an ambulance had been called for him;-  statements by the investigator d., who said that she had questioned the applicant on 31 august 2007 at the temporary detention facility. with whom he had drunk before;-  information from the temporary detention facility on the applicant’s injuries at the time of his admission (a closed fracture of the nasal bones and an abrasion on the left cheek) and a handwritten note from the applicant to the effect that he had received the injuries after falling down while in an inebriated state and that he had no complaints about the law-enforcement bodies;-  statements by a certain r., who submitted that on 26 august 2007 the applicant and her husband kar. he could not remember whether the applicant had had any injuries on 25 and 26 august 2007;-  an additional forensic medical report of 18 december 2007 which showed that the injury could have been caused on 26 august 2007 but that it could not have been caused by the applicant’s falling down;-  statements by the doctors who examined the applicant on 28 and 29 august 2007 and performed the x-ray examination and by the expert who conducted the initial forensic medical examination. on 11 april 2008 the proceedings were suspended for the second time. he also wanted to give the applicant’s mother the status of the applicant’s legal representative and question her, to carry out a comprehensive psychological and psychiatric examination of the applicant, to question a number of witnesses on the circumstances of the alleged ill-treatment (among them officer s.), and to join references from work on officers k., s. and ch. however, on 21 may 2008 the deputy head of the investigations department set that decision aside and held that it was necessary to question the witnesses to establish all the relevant circumstances of the alleged ill-treatment. on 23 october 2008 another witness, d., (an acquaintance of the applicant’s mother) stated that he had seen the applicant’s arrest on 28 august 2007. on 14 november 2008 the investigator decided to suspend the proceedings for the sixth time. the witnesses b., d. and z., who had seen the applicant’s arrest, had stated that they had not seen the police officers use any physical force against him. the mother’s statements had derived from those of the applicant and therefore could not be relied on either. proceedings were resumed on 12 july 2010. in addition, the experts had arrived at the conclusion that the injury could have been caused anytime between 26 august and 28 august 2007. on 10 december 2009 the altay regional court found at final instance that the aforementioned decision was lawful and justified.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in pyatigorsk. the applicant took part in the cleaning-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. he was subsequently registered disabled by ukrainian authorities, becoming entitled to various social benefits. in september 1999 the applicant settled in russia. the welfare authorities rejected re-establishing the applicant’s disability status. the applicant challenged the rejection before the courts. on 30 august 2005 the pyatigorsk town court granted the applicant’s claim and ordered the administration of labour and social security of the population of pyatigorsk to issue a certificate of benefits. on 20 september 2009 the judgment became final. on 18 october 2005 the applicant was issued with the certificate of benefits. on 1 november 2006 the presidium of stavropol regional court allowed the defendant authority’s application for supervisory review and quashed the judgment of 30 august 2005, considering that the lower courts misapplied the material law. the case was remitted for fresh consideration. on 13 december 2006 the the pyatigorsk town court discontinued the proceedings since the parties failed to appear.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in st petersburg. four days later he was charged with murder and attempted murder committed within an organised criminal group. with reference to the medical report of 15 july 2010 (see paragraph 41 below) the court noted that the state of health of the accused was compatible with further detention on remand. the court endorsed the reasoning of the decision of 12 august 2010 and noted that there were still certain investigative actions to be taken. the court extended the applicant’s detention until 28 february 2011, repeating its earlier reasoning. the case was remitted to the district court. on 24 february 2011 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 april 2011, and dismissed a prior application for early release on medical grounds. the applicant and his lawyer were absent. the court made a detailed list of the investigative steps taken since the most recent detention order, and declared reasonable the length of the investigation. on 7 april 2011 the defence appealed against the extension. on 25 may 2011 the supreme court held the appeal hearing in the absence of the applicant – who was still receiving inpatient treatment – and his counsel, who asked the court to examine the issue in his absence. on 1 and 8 june 2011 his lawyer submitted supplements to the statement of appeal. on the latter date the supreme court upheld the detention order. it appears that on the same day the applicant was released. on that account he was sent to gaaza prison hospital in st petersburg on 13 october 2010. fs 78-01-001560 of 23 april 2009 indicates that gaaza prison hospital was not authorised to provide endocrinological medical services. three days later the applicant was transferred from gaaza prison hospital back to the medical unit in the remand prison. as a result his blood sugar level increased significantly. how did the absence of ‘dynamic medical supervision by an endocrinologist’ between 5 april 2010 and 30 november 2011 affect [the applicant’s] health? ...” developed vascular disease (vascular angiopathy of the lower extremities) and encephalopathy, an irreversible brain damage ... were signs of his worsening health.
the first applicant was born in 1959 and the second applicant was born in 1981. on 10 april 2007 mr and mrs g. initiated civil proceedings against the applicants before the monção court (domestic proceedings no. on 14 may 2007 the applicants were summonsed. on the same day the court was informed of the death of mr g. and the proceedings were consequently suspended. on an unknown date mr g.’s eight heirs were admitted as parties to the proceedings (habilitação de herdeiros). the proceedings restarted on 19 june 2007. on an unknown date in september 2007 the applicants lodged their submissions in reply (contestação) and a counterclaim (pedido reconvencional). after having realised that the applicants had not communicated their submissions in reply to the claimants, on 26 october 2007 the court ordered the applicants to do so. later, the court realised that the claimants had not complied with the legal requirement to register the proceedings with the land registry office (conservatória do registo predial). on 18 december 2007 the proceedings were suspended until an unknown date on which the claimants complied with that requirement. the court ordered them to do so within forty days. the applicants requested that the deadline be extended by thirty days. on an unknown date the applicants lodged an application for evidence to be immediately obtained from a witness who was residing in the united kingdom. on an unknown day of january 2010 a videoconference to obtain witness evidence took place. on an unknown date a hearing was scheduled for an unknown day in april 2010. twelve other hearings took place, the last of which was on 12 december 2011. on 3 march 2012 the monção court ruled against the applicants. on an unknown date the applicants appealed against that decision to the guimarães court of appeal. on 24 april 2013 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the previous judgment. the applicants’ lawyer was notified of the supreme court of justice judgment on 7 may 2013.
on 10 october 2003 a deputy prosecutor in tashkent, uzbekistan, added the applicant’s name to the list of fugitives from justice and issued an arrest warrant on suspicion of human trafficking with the purpose of sexual exploitation. on 26 february 2009 the applicant was arrested in russia. on 28 february 2009 the pechorskiy district court in the pskov region ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, referring to articles 108 and 466 of the code of criminal procedure but without setting a time-limit. on 16 march 2009 the russian prosecutor general’s office received a request for the applicant’s extradition from his counterpart in uzbekistan. on 15 may 2009 the deputy russian prosecutor general ordered the applicant’s extradition to uzbekistan. the applicant challenged the extradition order before the pskov regional court. on 26 june 2009 the regional court found that the extradition order was lawful. on 17 august 2009 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the decision on appeal. on 17 october 2009 the applicant was extradited to uzbekistan.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1996 respectively and live in blagoveshchensk, amurskaya region. at the material time the applicants lived in blagoveshchensk. a certain b. proposed to help them in finding a flat. on 16 october 2002 the housing department of the city of moscow signed a social tenancy agreement with a certain k. in respect of a two-room flat at 32-70-69, prospekt vernadskogo, moscow. in october 2002 the first applicant bought a flat in kaluga region with the intention of exchanging it for a flat in moscow. on 29 october 2002 the committee for exchange of housing authorised the exchange of flats between k. and the first applicant. later in november 2002 the applicants were registered as living in that flat. the applicants paid a sum of money to b. 13. in 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted against b. on suspicion of fraud. the first applicant had been informed of those proceedings. however, she had not submitted any civil claims against b. 14. therefore, b.’s actions had to be reclassified as attempted fraud. in april 2009 the first applicant brought a counterclaim against the housing department on her own behalf and also on behalf of the second applicant, who was a minor at that time. the court declares the transactions null and void in accordance with article 168 of the [civil code] since they are incompatible with the requirements of articles 50, 51, 53, 54, 67-74 of the housing code. in her appeal she submitted that the city of moscow had not lost its property rights to the flat and, having regard to her status as a bona fide user, the district court had found no grounds for granting the eviction claims. the first applicant also submitted that she had been living in the flat for seven years together with her minor daughter, had been paying charges for it and had carried out maintenance therein. on 6 may 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 6 october 2009 on appeal. in 2014 the applicants returned to blagoveshchensk. on 9 february 2015 the applicants applied to the nikulinskiy district court of moscow, requesting that a duplicate of the writ of execution in respect of the judgment of 6 october 2009 be issued. on 21 april 2015 the applicants received the writ of execution.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in nizhyn in the chernihiv region. on 1 may 2010 the applicant was arrested and remanded in custody pending the outcome of the investigation and trial. it ordered that the applicant remain in detention pending appeal. in response, on 14 april 2014 the ukrainian government, who consider those armed groups to be terrorist organisations, authorised the use of force against them in the legal form of an “anti-terrorist operation”. a ceasefire was agreed upon within the framework of the tripartite contact group composed of representatives of ukraine, russia and the organisation for security and co-operation in europe (hereinafter, “the osce”). however, numerous violations of the ceasefire have continued to occur ever since. he remained in that prison until his release (see paragraph 30 below). on 3 march 2015 the applicant lodged a similar complaint with the office of the parliamentary commissioner for human rights. in order to resolve the problem, amendments would have to be made to the relevant legislation. in response to another complaint from the applicant, on 19 may 2015 the court of appeal informed him that it was unable to apprise him of the state of proceedings in his case because his criminal case file was in the court archives in luhansk, to which there was no access. in order to safeguard the vital interests of society and the state in response to the armed aggression of the russian federation, the parliament of ukraine, the cabinet of ministers of ukraine and other authorities have to adopt decisions which constitute a derogation from certain obligations on the part of ukraine under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, the courts and pre-trial investigation bodies are not currently functioning in certain areas of the donetsk and luhansk regions because of the armed aggression of the russian federation and the actions of terrorist groups backed by the russian federation. that is why ukraine has had to change the territorial jurisdiction of the courts and investigative jurisdiction in respect of criminal offences in conditions where the life of the nation is threatened. on 5 june 2015 the permanent representation of ukraine to the council of europe transmitted to the secretary general of the council of europe a note verbale containing the text of the above declaration and its translation. the court found that there was insufficient material available to restore the file. on five occasions between may 2015 and february 2016 the applicant applied for release, arguing that his detention was unlawful because his conviction was not final and “would never become final”. the most recent of those decisions was taken on 25 february 2016. on 18 march 2016 the lysychansk court released the applicant. the work was ongoing concerning two other defendants. at the date of last information made available to the court (19 january 2017), the applicant’s appeal against his conviction remained pending before the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in perm. on 21 october 2006 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of extortion, kidnapping and fraud. two days later the leninskiy district court of perm authorised his detention. the applicant asked to postpone the hearings for five days because his counsel was sick and could not attend. the district court dismissed the request, assigned lawyer n. to represent the applicant, proceeded with the hearing and extended the applicant’s detention. the applicant’s objection to the participation of n. on account of their different defence strategies and n.’s limited knowledge of the case-file was also dismissed. the applicant and his counsel appealed, complaining, in particular, about a breach of the applicant’s right to defend himself through legal assistance of his own choosing. on 18 january 2007 the perm regional court upheld the detention order of 21 december 2006, having also noted that the legal aid lawyer n. had been appointed because the detention matter “had to be examined immediately”. on 19 january 2007 the district court once again extended the applicant’s detention. on 8 february 2007 the regional court held the appeal hearing without informing the applicant in advance about the hearing date. the applicant’s counsel attended the appeal hearing and made oral submissions. the regional court dismissed the appeal and upheld the detention order of 19 january 2007. the applicant’s detention was further extended on several occasions. in particular, on 16 march 2007 the measure of restraint was prolonged until 4 april 2007. on 21 march 2007 the applicant was committed to stand trial before the regional court. five days later, on 26 march 2007, the trial court scheduled a preliminary hearing for 3 april 2007 and ruled that, in the meantime, the measure of restraint in respect of the applicant should remain unchanged until the preliminary hearing. the decision was delivered in a written procedure (without the parties being present). at the preliminary hearing on 3 april 2007 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention until 21 september 2007. on 1 june 2007 the applicant was convicted. on 22 september 2008 the supreme court upheld his conviction on appeal.
on 22 december 1998 the first applicant lodged a compensation claim with the sarajevo municipal court, seeking damages against the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the federation”) for goods seized during the 1992-95 war. it ordered that the interest should be calculated from february 1996. on 10 june 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal. on 4 march 2009 the sarajevo municipal court issued an enforcement order. the enforcement was to be carried out at the debtor’s expense. on 16 march 2010 the debtor’s bank informed the enforcement court that the applicant had received bam 24,244.78 in respect of legal costs. on 14 february 2013 the bank informed the sarajevo municipal court that it did not consider that the enforcement order of 4 march 2009 had been fully implemented (because the interest due had not been paid). on 17 august 2010 the first applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”), complaining about the non-enforcement of the final judgment of 10 may 2007. thus, there was no legal basis for the payment of default interest to the first applicant. on 12 june 2013 the constitutional court held that there had been a violation of article 1 of protocol no. it ordered the municipal court to conclude the enforcement proceedings without delay. ... from the material in the case file it is evident that the impugned enforcement proceedings were not (i) completed or (ii) terminated by means of a final procedural decision rejecting the appellant’s request for the enforcement. on 28 may 2007 the orašje municipal court ordered the federation to pay the second applicant bam 70,000 (approximately eur 35,260) in respect of pecuniary damage, together with default interest at the statutory rate from april 2003 and legal costs, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the civil obligations act of 1978. on 13 february 2008 the court dismissed the debtor’s objection and upheld the enforcement order of 14 december 2007. on 5 december 2011 the second applicant received bam 66,499.98 in respect of the principal debt. on 3 january 2009 the second applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court, complaining about the non-enforcement of the final judgment of 28 may 2007. it also held that the enforcement schedule under the domestic debt act of 2004, which at the time stipulated that final judgments should be enforced by the payment of war damages in governments bonds in lieu of cash, had placed a disproportionate burden on the appellants. in its reasoning the constitutional court referred to its earlier decisions concerning the same matter. it ordered the federation to enforce the final judgments in question without further delay. on 16 january 2013 the constitutional court concluded that its decision of 8 june 2011 had been enforced.
the applicants either owned businesses at voronezh municipal market and rented the market pitches for their businesses, or worked as vendors for these businesses. the court held as follows:“[the defendant] violated the procedure for organising and managing a gathering (собрание); he disobeyed a lawful order issued by police officers in relation to their duties to ensure public order and safety, he also obstructed their exercise of the above duties ...[the defendant’s] guilt is confirmed by the following documents: the record of the administrative offence, a complaint and written statements issued by the market director, written reports by police officers, and statements from witnesses ...” 13. mr khripunov argued that the trial court had not made a proper assessment of the testimonies of eyewitnesses. after he had failed to comply, he had been taken to a police car, while grabbing the officers’ uniforms and trying to run away. could not be eyewitnesses since the market was surrounded by a wall. by a decision of 13 august 2009, in respect of mr khripunov, the district court held:“p., a witness, stated before the appeal court ‘on 7 august 2009 ... people in plain clothes and the police arrived at the market and, following orders from the chief officer of the sovetskiy police station, started to arrest entrepreneurs without explaining the reasons for such arrests. [ in particular, neither of the two documents specifies what order was given to the defendant which was then not complied with. in respect of ms zakharova, the appeal court held as follows:“neither the record of the administrative offence nor the first-instance judgment refers to specific facts and actions forming part of the offence imputed to the defendant, namely disobeying the lawful order of a police officer ... or the specific order given to her which she failed to comply with. the police had then arrived and had taken some people to the police station. it appears that during the hearing the applicant, who was assisted by counsel, first sought to have some other witnesses and police officers examined in open court. these participants did not respond to orders from police officers. however, on 8 september 2009 the district court heard appeals from them and set aside the judgments against them. in her submissions before the court the applicant’s lawyer alleged that mr annenkov had sustained a rib fracture. had then kicked him on the leg and ordered “take this one”. at 5.45 a.m. some thirty officers under my supervision arrived at the market to prevent disorder and unlawful actions. the entrepreneurs had previously been issued with warnings against unlawful actions on their part. was also heard and he confirmed officer ku. for unspecified reasons, a new refusal to prosecute was issued on 1 october 2009. four applicants (mr annenkov, ms suprunova, ms guseva and ms zakharova) sought judicial review in respect of the refusal dated 1 october 2009. mr annenkov also had a formal confrontation procedure with an unspecified witness who had allegedly seen the applicant stumble and fall to the ground by himself on 7 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in zákopčie. on 28 february 2011 the applicant was sued by his son in proceedings on child maintenance before the čadca district court (file no. during those proceedings he made an incomplete submission on 21 april 2011, which he supplemented the month after alleging that he had been waiting for a response from the centre for legal aid in respect of his request for a legal aid lawyer. he also lodged two complaints with the president of the district court about the excessive length of proceedings, namely on 9 february 2012 and 29 february 2012, which were unsuccessful. having been dissatisfied with their outcome, he turned to the appellate court for review of his complaints to no avail. the district court, on the other hand, took the following steps. it asked several public authorities, such as for example social security authority and the job centre, to provide it with information relevant to the case. between may 2012 and april 2014, it was dealing with an appointment of a guardian to the applicant, who at the material time was undergoing an ambulatory psychiatric treatment. such an appointment was eventually revoked in september 2014 on the grounds that the centre for legal aid had appointed a lawyer for the applicant in june 2014. the district court also joined the present case file to another set of proceedings for several months. in january 2014, the district court judge responsible for hearing the applicant’s case changed. the district court further scheduled several hearings, which were either adjourned or cancelled. on 13 may 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaint about a violation of his right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the proceedings held before the district court as manifestly ill-founded. it concluded that the district court proceeded with the matter actively and properly, apart from a few minor exceptions, such as the joining of a case file to another set of proceedings, changing of the judge and a procedural error made during one of the hearings. in particular, the constitutional court took into account the fact that the applicant had complained of excessive delays with the president of the district court and challenged them further on appeal on each occasion. subsequently, the district court took several steps as follows. it asked for further information from inter alia the applicant’s employer. it also scheduled a hearing for 12 august 2015, which was adjourned to 31 august 2015. it then postponed the latter hearing to an unspecified date, since it had to deal with a procedural request from the plaintiff, which was also challenged on appeal. in the absence of any further information from the parties, it appears that the proceedings are still pending and no judgment on the merits has been delivered by the district court.
the applicant was born in 1965 in the altay region. on 20 january 2007 he complained to a prison doctor that he had started experiencing severe pain in the lower back after an accidental fall. the doctor diagnosed lumbar osteochondrosis and prescribed the standard treatment. according to the applicant, the unit did not employ the necessary medical specialists and did not have the equipment needed to treat his condition. he was seen by a neurologist, who diagnosed myelopathy, a neurological problem related to the spinal cord, accompanied with a mild dysfunction of the legs. the treatment regimen was amended, but his condition did not change. he was discharged from the hospital on 2 april 2007. on two occasions, between 20 april and 23 june 2007 and between 17 september and 2 november 2007, the applicant was treated in the correctional colony’s medical unit. in the meantime, the applicant was sent back and forth between the medical unit and the prison hospital, mainly receiving medication for his symptoms. after collecting enough money, the applicant had an mri on 10 december 2009. it revealed an abnormal narrowing of the spinal canal. the applicant was prescribed conservative treatment. on 27 september 2010 their request was dismissed owing to the absence of a fresh mri. on 6 december 2010 the applicant complained to the prosecutor of novosibirsk region about the failure of the medical authorities to duly apply for his transfer to the prison hospital. by a letter of 28 december 2010 the prosecutor supported the applicant’s allegations, noting that a prison official had already been disciplined for the failure to submit the applicant’s complete medical file to gaaza prison hospital. the prosecutor ordered the detention authorities to apply for the applicant’s admission to the prison hospital. on 1 march 2011 the hospital’s medical board asked the regional authorities to allocate a surgery quota to the applicant. on 9 september 2011 the detention authorities paid for an mri for the applicant in a civilian hospital. no positive effect on his spine condition was recorded. the applicant was released on parole on 19 july 2013.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in kyiv. on 7 may 2015 the applicant stood trial before the kyiv obolonsky district court, charged with unlawful purchase and possession of large quantities of narcotic drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code. it appears from the trial court judgment that when questioned in the course of the trial, the applicant stated that he had been feeling unwell so had been taking tramadol to relieve the pain. he admitted that on 22 january 2015 he had bought ten blisters of tramadol, a narcotic-like pain reliever, from a stranger in the street for the equivalent of about eur 53 and had been arrested shortly afterwards. he expressed remorse and asked for leniency in sentencing. in view of those admissions the trial court, relying on article 349 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”) (see paragraph 13 below), ruled it unnecessary to examine the evidence related to the “circumstances”, which were “not contested by any party”. on the same day the trial court convicted the applicant of illegal purchase and possession of drugs, an offence under article 309 § 2 of the criminal code, and sentenced him to two years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant appealed, arguing that his admissions before the trial court had related only to the facts and not to the legal classification of the offence, which he maintained was erroneous. he argued that mere possession of tramadol was not unlawful as such, except where it was in breach of the applicable regulations. for this reason, his acts should have been classified not under article 309 of the criminal code as drug possession but rather under article 320 of the criminal code, namely breach of the rules related to the purchase and circulation of drugs and analogous products. on 1 july 2015 the kyiv city court of appeal, sitting as a single‑judge formation, denied the applicant leave to appeal. the court stated that the applicant had admitted the circumstances of the offence and the trial court had then proceeded under article 349 § 3 of the ccp. however, in his appeal the applicant was contesting his conviction under article 309 of the criminal code and the legal classification of his actions. the court held that, because of the applicant’s admission and the procedure used at the trial under article 394 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 14 below), the decision was not amenable to appeal on the grounds invoked by the applicant. on 3 august 2015 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant, holding that the court of appeal’s decision had complied with the rules of criminal procedure.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in torres novas. before the court of torres novas (domestic proceedings no. lodged his submissions in reply (contestação) and on 6 may 2004 the claimant lodged new submissions (réplica). on 7 november 2006 the court suspended the proceedings and on 9 november 2007 it declared the proceedings’ interruption as the claimant had not taken the initiative of continuing the proceedings against the defendant’s heirs. on 18 december 2007 the claimant applied for leave to continue the proceedings against the defendant’s heirs (incidente de habilitação de herdeiros). on an unknown date one of the claimant’s heirs, a.o., applied for leave to continue the proceedings with her and the other claimant’s heir as parties. on 22 june 2012 the court admitted the claimant’s heirs as parties to the proceedings. on 22 january 2010 the court was informed of the death of one of the defendant’s heirs. applied for leave to continue the proceedings against the heirs of the deceased party. on 4 may 2010 she provided information on those heirs and in july she provided their birth certificates. provided the heirs’ addresses, following which they were summoned. on 30 april 2012 those heirs were admitted as parties to the proceedings. on 14 january 2013 the claimant’s heirs requested an inspection to the house, which took place on 3 april 2013. on 29 may 2013 the hearing that had been scheduled for that day was postponed as the parties’ lawyers were not present. subsequently, hearings were held on 18 september, 29 october and 17 december 2013. on 14 january 2014 the court adopted a decision with regard to the factual basis (resposta à matéria de facto) and on 13 march 2014 it delivered its decision in which it ordered the applicant to vacate the house and to pay rent arrears. on an unknown date the applicant appealed against that decision. the appeal was declared inadmissible for an unknown reason. according to the latest information received by the court on 23 november 2015, on that date the enforcement proceedings were still pending at first instance.
on 18 january 2007 the moscow city authorities, the ministry of the defence of the russian federation and a private construction company signed an investment contract for the construction of a number of residential buildings in moscow. pursuant to the contract, a title to 3,823 flats was to be transferred to the ministry of the defence. the rest of the flats were to remain the city’s property. in 2008 the city authorities commissioned, as part of the said investment contract, several residential buildings. it appears that a number of flats in those buildings were transferred to the ministry of the defence. in 2009 the city authorities had their title to a number of flats, including those in residential buildings nos. 8 and 26-1 at ulitsa marshala savitskogo, moscow, registered by the state authorities. in 2010 the ministry of the defence assigned five of those flats to private individuals and entered into social housing agreements with them. subsequently those people successfully applied to the zyuzinskiy district court of moscow seeking recognition of their title to the flats by way of privatisation. once the court’s judgments became final, they had their ownership in respect of the flats registered in the state register and then sold the flats to other persons, including the applicants. the relevant transactions and transfer of the title to the property were duly registered by the authorities. according to the government, in 2012 and 2013 the police opened criminal investigation in respect of the fraudulent transactions with the flats. the government did not inform of its outcome. the authorities claimed that the flats owned by the applicants were the city’s property. the court established, inter alia, that the ministry of the defence had never owned the flats and, accordingly, had not had a right to assign them to private individuals. the court also found that the applicants had acquired the flats in good faith. the applicants’ appeals were to no avail. according to the government, the judgments ordering the applicants’ eviction were not enforced. the applicants continue to reside in the flats. the details pertaining to each case are summed up in appendix ii below.
ms fatma nuray uncuoğlu (“the first applicant”) was born in 1945 and lives in istanbul. ms nurcihan uncuoğlu (“the second applicant”) was born in 1940 and also lives in istanbul. the applicants each owned a share in respective plots of land in the area of firuzköy, in the district of avcılar, istanbul. on 24 december 1987, a new zoning plan was put into force in the area of firuzköy, which encompassed the applicants’ plots of land. under the new plan, the plots of land were designated as “university area”. subsequently, in 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1991, annotations (şerhler) were made in the land registry records indicating that the applicants’ land would be expropriated by istanbul university (hereinafter “the university”). on 26 march 1998 the applicants both asked the university to either expropriate the disputed land or to remove the annotations from the land registry records. the university informed the applicants, on 27 april 1998 and 28 april 1998 respectively, that the expropriation proceedings would commence when the necessary funding was provided. on 20 july 2001 the applicants initiated respective proceedings before the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance, claiming compensation for de facto expropriation. on 12 december 2003, relying on expert reports which had indicated that the applicants’ land had been fenced off by the university, the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance awarded the first applicant 97,125,000,000 turkish liras (trl) and the second applicant 37,837,500,000 trl by way of compensation for de facto expropriation. in its respective judgments, the first-instance court held in particular that the land at issue had been under the effective control of the university and that access to the land was restricted due to the fences that had been built around the land. on 22 june 2004 the fifth civil division of the court of cassation quashed the judgments of the küçükçekmece civil court of first instance, holding that the land in question had not been controlled or used effectively by the university. on 24 september 2004 both applicants requested the rectification of the respective decisions dated 22 june 2004. in their petitions, they drew the attention of the fifth civil division of the court of cassation to its previous decisions, dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003, in which it had held that neighbouring plots of land in the same area had been de facto expropriated by the university because the latter had built fences around the land and because of the annotations made in the land registry records. on 12 april 2005 the fifth civil division of the court of cassation rejected the applicants’ requests for rectification of the decisions of 22 june 2004. however, it did not express any reason as to why it had reached a different conclusion from its previous decisions dated 28 september 1999 and 31 march 2003. on 27 march 2006 and 4 april 2006 respectively, the fifth civil division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeals. in its decisions, it gave no reply to the applicants’ arguments regarding the fact that it had given contradictory judgments in respect of similar cases. the applicants’ requests for the rectification of the decisions were furthermore rejected and the judgments became final on 28 september 2006 and 3 october 2006 respectively. on an unknown date the university paid compensation to the second applicant for her plot of land.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in bucharest. from 1 august 2004 to 6 august 2007 he was employed in the bucharest office of s., a romanian private company (“the employer”), as a sales engineer. he already had another personal yahoo messenger account. on 3 july 2007 the bucharest office received and circulated among all its employees an information notice that had been drawn up and sent by the cluj head office on 26 june 2007. the employer asked employees to acquaint themselves with the notice and to sign a copy of it. come to work to deal with company and professional matters, and not your own personal problems! your misconduct will be carefully monitored and punished! these are the basis of our collaboration! it also appears from the documents submitted by the government, including the employer’s attendance register, that the applicant acquainted himself with the notice and signed it between 3 and 13 july 2007. charts were attached indicating that his internet activity was greater than that of his colleagues. the forty-five pages mentioned in the notice consisted of a transcript of the messages which the applicant had exchanged with his brother and his fiancée during the period when he had been monitored; the messages related to personal matters and some were of an intimate nature. the applicant challenged his dismissal in an application to the bucharest county court (“the county court”). 62617/00, §§ 43-44, echr 2007‑i), he argued that an employee’s telephone and email communications from the workplace were covered by the notions of “private life” and “correspondence” and were therefore protected by article 8 of the convention. in a judgment of 7 december 2007 the county court rejected the applicant’s application and confirmed that his dismissal had been lawful. the fact that the provisions containing the requirement to interview the suspect (învinuitul) in a case of alleged misconduct and to examine the arguments submitted in that person’s defence prior to the decision on a sanction are couched in imperative terms highlights the legislature’s intention to make respect for the rights of the defence a prerequisite for the validity of the decision on the sanction. the employer’s right to monitor (monitoriza) employees in the workplace, [particularly] as regards their use of company computers, forms part of the broader right, governed by the provisions of article 40 (d) of the labour code, to supervise how employees perform their professional tasks. - principle of necessity: monitoring must be necessary to achieve a certain aim. - principle of transparency: the employer must provide employees with full information about monitoring operations. - principle of legitimacy: data-processing operations may only take place for a legitimate purpose. - principle of proportionality: personal data being monitored must be relevant and adequate in relation to the specified purpose.
the applicant is a privately owned company which was established in 1989 and registered in belgrade. 1 ugovora o fiducijarnom prenosu prava svojine). 6 – storehouse (magacin); (b) property no. 29 – power plant (energana); (c) property no. 9 – laboratory (laboratorija); and (e) property pm2 – paper machines (papir mašine). on 31 october 2003 the fiduciary transfer of beranka ad’s property to the applicant was registered by the real estate office in berane (direkcija za nekretnine, područna jedinica berane). on 17 september 2004 the commercial court refused to recognise this claim. on 13 april 2005 the real estate department in podgorica (uprava za nekrentine u podgorici) quashed both decisions on appeal and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 1 june 2005 the real estate department in berane re-registered the fiduciary transfer on properties nos. 6 and 9, as well as on pm2, but refused to re-register the fiduciary transfer on properties nos. on 22 november 2005 the real estate department in podgorica upheld this decision. the applicant appealed to the administrative court. it would appear that the case is still pending before that body. on 11 april 2007 the administrative court issued an enforcement decision ordering the registration of the applicant’s fiduciary rights in respect of all properties. the hearings concerning the objection were held on 11 august 2004, 31 may 2005 and 17 april 2006. this decision was quashed by decision of the ministry of finance and the matter was remitted to the first instance. the same authority confirmed that decision on 2 november 2011. on 16 november 2011 the applicant filed an objection with the ministry of finance. on 9 july 2012 the applicant also lodged an appeal with the administrative court. on 14 june 2013 the ministry of finance remitted the case to the first instance.
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1960 respectively and live in charleroi and antwerp. michael tekin was arrested on that same date and detained for insulting and threatening two police officers. the applicants’ son was then placed in an individual cell in an ordinary section of jamioulx prison. at around 9.30 a.m. on 8 august 2009 michael tekin was presented before the deputy director of jamioulx prison for his interview as a new arrival. a total of about ten officers were now present. some of them helped with keeping michael tekin under control while others remained passive. they had to carry him down twenty or so steps to reach the isolation cell. she alerted the duty doctor and prepared the medical equipment. when the nurse and the duty doctor arrived at the inner security gate of the prison, an officer, who had been a witness to the events, informed them that the “service 100” (the medical emergency service) and the smur (emergency ambulance service) had been called at about 11.54 a.m. a transcription of the call is included in the case file. when we told him that was impossible, he threatened us with the words ‘you’ll get what’s coming to you’. michael tekin was eating when we went in. michael tekin moved towards me and started sneezing again. we called the infirmary and also the smur. when he started to struggle again i exerted a small amount of pressure and slackened it immediately. in any case he was talking to me, as i mentioned in my first statement. i didn’t hear michael tekin speaking, but i think he was trying to talk but nothing came out. ... the applicants applied to join the proceedings as civil parties. at the 24 october 2012 hearing before the charleroi criminal court, dr b. submitted that it was not impossible that the detainee’s fall to the ground had produced the force leading to the fracture of the right upper horn of the thyroid cartilage and that it had been quite possible that the armlock had on its own been sufficient to bring about the fatal outcome. he was, however, unable to affirm that if the strangulation had ceased after the thyroid cartilage had been broken michael tekin would have been able to breathe again normally and survive, since the outcome would have depended on the injuries sustained previously. subsequently, the continuation of the armlock had been equally justified and proportional in view of the fact that michael tekin had continued to struggle.
on 25 april 2008 the applicant arrived in turkey legally on a visa valid for one month. on 24 april 2010 the applicant, who had been living in turkey since april 2008, was taken into police custody while he was at istanbul atatürk airport. he made a statement to the airport police on the same day. according to the document containing his statement, the applicant was informed that he was suspected of lacking a valid identity document and of illegal entry into turkey. he was kept in detention at the airport police station for the following three days. on 27 april 2010 the applicant was sent to istanbul kumkapı removal centre. according to the applicant’s account, the centre was severely overcrowded at the time of his detention, which resulted in hygiene problems. the building was infested with insects and the quality and quantity of the food was also fairly poor. moreover, there was no provision for outdoor exercise. on 2 june 2010 the applicant applied for release to the istanbul magistrates’ court. the court decided on the same day that it did not have jurisdiction as the applicant had not been detained within the scope of a criminal investigation. the court therefore ruled that any request had to be brought before the administrative courts. on an unspecified date the applicant made an asylum claim to the ministry of the interior and lodged an application for refugee status with the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr). on 25 june 2010 the applicant was granted a temporary residence permit in the province of bilecik as an asylum-seeker and was released from kumkapı removal centre on the same day. according to information provided by his representative on 4 january 2017, a deportation order was issued in respect of the applicant on an unspecified date in 2016. he has been detained at i̇zmir işıkkent removal centre since 20 september 2016 with a view to his expulsion. the domestic proceedings brought by the applicant against the deportation order and the applicant’s application to the unhcr for refugee status are still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence in antalya. according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, the applicant turned himself in and confessed to his involvement in the shooting of k.g., the applicant therefore agreed to give a statement. his statements were transcribed on a pre-printed form. upon the instructions of the illegal organisation. on 17 february 2004 the applicant was questioned again by the antalya public prosecutor and the investigating judge. according to the statement drawn up during the questioning by the public prosecutor, the applicant had been advised of his rights again. he stated that he did not want the assistance of a lawyer and repeated the content of his police statement. the applicant further submitted that he did not know the co-accused, a.y., with a view to verifying the defence submissions of the applicant and his co-accused, a.y. had been held and ordered an enquiry as to their addresses in the event that they had been released from prison. one from the side and the other from the front, and sent with the reports concerning the case, in the event that m.n.a., at a hearing held on 26 august 2004, a.y. ’s lawyer submitted a medical report issued by the elazığ psychiatric hospital, dated 3 september 2002, which stated that m.n.a. the trial court did not respond to that request. insisted that he was now telling them the correct version of the events. and requested that his statement be considered as unreliable. on 17 february 2005 the eighth hearing was held, and the trial court again reiterated its orders concerning b.ç. at the crime scene and that they had not been involved in his shooting. the izmir assize court rejected the request on the grounds that it had already examined and rejected the same request.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in diyarbakır. on 17 january 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 18 january 2003 his statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. the applicant confessed to being a member of an illegal organisation. he gave a detailed account of its structure and his acts within the illegal organisation. on the same day the applicant was heard by a public prosecutor and an investigating judge respectively. in these statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, he denied his police statements and argued that they had been taken under duress. following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be held on remand. on 28 january 2003 a public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former criminal code. state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 10 june 2008 the istanbul assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant had committed the offence under article 314 of the criminal code and sentenced him to two years and one month’s imprisonment. on 27 may 2009 the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment, arguing that the applicant had been convicted on the basis of statements taken under duress. on 3 march 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in podgorica. the applicant was an employee of an export trading company with its seat in ljubljana, slovenia. following the breakup of the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, on 15 october 1991 the applicant’s employer closed its office in podgorica. on 5 october 1991 the applicant founded a trading company with its seat in his former employer’s offices. on 3 october 1997 the applicant received this certificate from the ministry of commerce of the republic of montenegro. on 10 march 1999 the court of first instance ruled that it lacked competence to deal with the case and rejected the claim. this decision was quashed by the high court on 17 september 1999 and was remitted to the court of first instance. on 30 april 2004 the court of first instance ruled partly in favour of the applicant. the high court in podgorica overturned this decision on 24 january 2008 and rejected the applicant’s claim. on 23 april 2002 the applicant lodged a claim seeking payment of the 24 monthly salaries (see paragraph 6 above) against the municipality of podgorica and the republic of montenegro. on 5 february 2004 the court of first instance in podgorica rejected the applicant’s claim. on 9 november 2004 the high court in podgorica quashed this decision and remitted the case to the court of first instance for reconsideration. on 16 may 2006 the court of first instance again rejected the applicant’s claim. on 27 may 2008 the high court quashed the above judgment partly. it remitted the case for reconsideration in so far as the quashed part is concerned. the supreme court rejected this appeal on 3 march 2009. on 18 january 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal on points of law. this judgment was served on the applicant on 7 february 2011. on an unspecified day in 2011, the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 28 may 2013.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in kahramanmaraş. on the same day, he was taken to the dörtyol police station for questioning. the questioning took place between 8.10 p.m. and 11.50 p.m. the same day and 10 a.m. and 3.45 p.m. the following day. the applicant’s statements to the police were transcribed on pre-printed forms, the relevant part of which was filled in to indicate, inter alia, that the applicant was suspected of membership of an illegal organisation and of carrying out armed activities on behalf of that organisation. he was thus questioned in the absence of a lawyer. in particular, he gave detailed information about, inter alia, an armed attack on a prison vehicle in adana. on 23 november 2003 he was brought before the dörtyol public prosecutor, where he partly confirmed and partly denied the content of his statements to the police made in the absence of a lawyer. prior to this he had been told his rights, including the right to benefit from the assistance of a lawyer. he further stated that he was a member of the pkk/kadek and had been involved in some of its activities in northern iraq but had not taken part in any political or armed activities in turkey. on the same day, an investigating judge of the adana state security court took statements from the applicant. later, at the first court hearing, he retracted his statements to the police, alleging that they had been extracted under duress. the case was therefore transferred to the adana assize court. had stated in his witness statements dated 16 october 2003 that he had seen the perpetrators of the attack. he also asked the court to enquire of the banks as to whether there had been any money transferred between the applicant’s father and h.k. it further dismissed the other request concerning the transfer of money, considering it not to be essential for the purposes of the case. on 11 december 2005 the applicant sent a letter to the trial court in which he explained the threats and coercion he had been subjected to in detail and asked the court not to take his co-accused’s statements into consideration. the applicant’s lawyer gave detailed accounts of such treatment and asked the court of cassation not to rely on these statements which had been obtained by impairing the applicant’s will. on 12 october 2006 the court of cassation quashed the conviction for procedural shortcomings. made during questioning, which were later repeated before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, and the record of the reconstruction of events. it also took into account the weapons, bullets and explosives seized by the judicial authorities and the organisational documents as well as the incident report, hotel records, an autopsy and expert reports, photographs, witness statements and investigation reports.
at the time of lodging his application, he was detained in berlin tegel prison. he had stopped short of stabbing his victim to death. on 9 july 2007 the berlin regional court ordered the execution of the applicant’s preventive detention in accordance with article 67c § 1 of the criminal code as it was not reasonable to expect that the applicant would commit no further unlawful acts if released. while he was at liberty, he found a flat and a job and voluntarily started psychotherapy treatment with a female psychologist, so. he regularly attended weekly therapy sessions with so. and did not commit any criminal offences while at liberty. just like the regional court, it based its decision on a medical expert opinion drawn up previously by psychotherapy expert b. and psychologist s. expert b. had examined the applicant on four occasions between february and september 2005. the court heard the prison authorities which, in their written statement of 6 march 2009, submitted that the applicant was not willing to work on his problems and refused any therapeutic treatment in the detention centre. it found that article 454 § 2, read in conjunction with article 463 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 37 below), only required a new psychiatric expert report as a basis for a periodic review decision if the court was considering releasing a detainee from preventive detention on probation, in order to ensure that he was no longer a danger to the public. 2 bvr 1512/02) and of the constitutional court of berlin (see decision of 4 march 2009, file no. his age of 57 years did not warrant a different conclusion as regards the danger he represented in the circumstances of his case. on 24 march 2010 the berlin court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. having regard also to the personality disorders leading to his dangerousness, the period of one year at liberty was therefore too short to prove that the applicant was no longer dangerous. moreover the court found that, although the prison authorities had, without giving proper reasons, refused to grant the applicant escorted short‑term leave from prison, especially short-term leave for the purpose of meeting his external therapist so., however, the court was of the view that, even if the applicant had been granted the necessary leave since his readmission into preventive detention, the period passed since then would have been too short to prove that he was no longer dangerous. the applicant resumed external psychotherapy in september 2012. on 22 may 2012 the berlin regional court issued its decision in the fresh periodic review proceedings. and her family, as he had started to stalk her and threaten her with e-mails and telephone calls. it found that the applicant’s immediate release was not to be ordered owing to the danger he represented. the applicant was released on parole on 20 november 2013.
the applicant, born in 1987, is the mother of two children, who are half-brothers. her younger son, x, was born in february 2012. on 29 june 2012, that decision was upheld by the county social welfare board (fylkesnemnda for barnevern og sosiale saker). the emergency placement was followed up by the child welfare authorities with a petition of 6 july 2012 to the board for a public care order. in these circumstances, it would not be in x’s best interest to be placed with his maternal grandmother and her husband – the applicant’s mother and stepfather. in her view, the child welfare authorities had not properly evaluated that possibility. their age was not in itself of importance, given that other circumstances were in favour of their acting as his foster parents. to place x with them would be more stable and less stigmatising than an external placement. as the board has previously mentioned, [x] may be inherently vulnerable. the child welfare service in [the municipality] has also reported difficulties regarding cooperation. the grandmother and her husband are relatively old to be foster parents to such young children. [ the maternal grandmother and her husband already have a foster child who is four years old, and it will require a lot of energy on their part to have another foster child ... who is also younger than the one they [already] have. the board has found that its doubts about placing [x] with his grandmother and her husband are so serious that the disadvantages outweigh the advantages. in its judgment of 22 july 2013, the city court upheld the county social welfare board’s decision in full. turning next to the question of whether he could be placed with the applicant’s mother and stepfather, the city court observed that they had been approved as foster parents when the applicant’s older son had been placed with them in 2010. it had moreover been documented that the applicant’s mother and stepfather might well be suitable foster parents for him. that is how the challenges are described by both the representative of the child welfare service in [the municipality] and the grandmother herself. for the undersigned, this concern is based, not least, on the fact that [x]’s grandmother has clearly expressed to the undersigned that she primarily wants to be a mother to [the applicant]. the city court shared the expert’s concerns. he had now formed an attachment with his new foster mother after he had moved into his latest foster home in january 2013.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in sofia. and now i am bearing the consequences of that. and a third person], who staged a revolt at the time against the working methods i introduced. the applicant then explained that the prosecutor at issue was known as “prosecutor rushvetchiyski” (прокурора рушветчийски), meaning someone who takes bribes, derived from the colloquial word for bribe, rushvet (рушвет). questioned about a finding by the commission that a “bad psychological atmosphere” existed at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office while it was headed by him, the applicant stated further:“the inspection might be right, if by ‘bad psychological atmosphere’ they mean my intolerance towards those prosecutors ..., who performed their duties in a sloppy manner, or attended meetings with the lawyers of criminals to decide on the outcome of cases. ’s] circle, comprising the unhealthiest elements in the prosecution service, is well known. as are known from media publications [n.n. me being checked by prosecutor rushvetchiyski! during the previous year the prosecutors in it had drawn up 782 acts of indictment. only 8% of the cases remitted by the courts. on the contrary, i thought we could have improved even further. ...” and to reduce the possibilities for corruption deals made in private ... but i do not want to talk any further. in fact, what [he] is doing now in [his office] is what i tried to do at the time at the [sofia district prosecutor’s office] – to sweep all the trash out of the house. that article has not been submitted by the parties. in a judgment of 5 december 2007, the plovdiv district court acquitted the applicant and dismissed the civil claims against him. it set aside his criminal liability but imposed an administrative penalty on him – a fine of bgn 1,000 (the equivalent of 510 euros (eur)). it is also a fact that the expressions were uttered in an interview, which was published and disseminated through the mass media – the trud newspaper ..., in its issue of 12 october 2006. it is a fact that the complainants ... were named in their capacity as public officials – being prosecutors at the sofia district public prosecutor’s office – and in relation to their official duties.” ... the applicant paid in the amounts indicated in paragraph 19 above on 7 august 2008. the total amount paid, including interest and the fees charged by the enforcement official, was bgn 14,826 (the equivalent of about eur 7,565).
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in aachen. the following day, the aachen district court issued a warrant for the arrest of the applicant on the ground that he was strongly suspected (dringend verdächtig) of commercial trafficking of a substantial amount of drugs and that there was a risk of his absconding. it considered that the applicant could face a considerable prison sentence for the offences in question, that he did not have strong ties to germany, that he was unemployed and living on social security, and that he could easily abscond to turkey. on 6 august 2010 the aachen district court decided to open the trial against the applicant. that same day, the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision ordering his continued detention and asked for the detention order to be set aside or its execution to be stayed. the strength of his ties to germany rendered his absconding to turkey unlikely. he had lived in germany for twenty years, had been married for the past thirteen years, and had two children, aged eight and one. his parents and his brother also lived in germany. his only tie to turkey, by contrast, was his parents’ holiday home. it considered that it was possible that the applicant would be sentenced to a significant prison sentence on appeal. there was, hence, an incentive for him to abscond which was not counterbalanced by his existing social ties to germany. this risk could not be adequately remedied by reporting requirements or payment of security. after essentially reiterating his earlier submission as to why there was no risk of his absconding, he stated that such risk could, in any event, be remedied by imposing a less severe measure. after the regional court decided not to grant the applicant’s further appeal and to refer the matter to the cologne court of appeal, that court informed the applicant’s counsel, in a letter dated 22 november 2010, that it was considering staying the execution of the detention order. the lawful origin of those means had to be credibly demonstrated. he added that, if the applicant had to assume that the security would be forfeited in any event, that is to say, even if he did not abscond, because the repayment claim would be attached for payment against other claims, the security could not effectively remedy a risk of his absconding. on 3 december 2010 the cologne court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s further appeal. it endorsed the assessments of the district court and the regional court as to the risk of the applicant’s absconding and noted that the sentence the applicant risked incurring was not limited to two years and six months’ imprisonment, for the public prosecutor had appealed against the district court’s judgment, seeking the applicant’s conviction on the two counts on which he had been acquitted. it stated that it would nonetheless consider staying the execution of the detention order if security were furnished. as long as the applicant’s family was not willing to put the necessary means at his own disposal it was, however, not ready to do so, arguing that this unwillingness indicated that his family lacked confidence in him and concluding that the family ties appeared not to be strong enough to prevent him from risking forfeiture of the security by absconding.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in graz. he was the managing director and 80% shareholder of ritz baugesellschaft m.b.h. on 12 october 1998 the graz civil regional court (landesgericht für zivilrechtssachen) opened insolvency proceedings (konkursverfahren) in respect of ritz baugesellschaft m.b.h. ( these proceedings were discontinued on 14 june 2013 for lack of funds to cover the cost (beschluss auf aufhebung des konkurses mangels kostendeckung). 20 cg 79/02y) with the klagenfurt regional court (hereinafter “the regional court”) against the republic of austria, represented by the financial procurator’s office (finanzprokuratur). on 5 june 2002 he filed a further claim in his own name (case no. in addition to that, the applicant and the company requested a declaratory judgment (feststellungsurteil) concerning the future liability of the republic of austria for any further damages arising from the insolvency proceedings. on 13 november 2002 the regional court rejected the applicant’s claim filed in the name of the company, holding that the applicant had no locus standi because he could not dispose of the company’s assets as long as the insolvency proceedings were still pending. on 28 january 2003 the graz court of appeal (oberlandesgericht) granted the applicant’s appeal and referred the case back to the regional court. on 20 january 2004 the applicant asked for the proceedings lodged in the company’s name to be resumed and submitted a list of witnesses to be questioned by the regional court. on 7 april 2004 the regional court held a further hearing during which a building expert and a bookkeeping expert as sub-expert were appointed, the sub-expert to be consulted for any further advice. on 11 august 2005 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s request under section 91, finding that the regional court had not been dilatory; it also stated that the requested time-limits were unrealistic and that the applicant’s request itself had caused further delays. on 15 march and 19 may 2006 the experts submitted their reports. on 29 june 2006 the regional court held another hearing to discuss the expert reports; eventually the court decided to submit the file to the public prosecutor to examine whether criminal investigations should be instituted against unknown offenders ex-officio and the proceedings stayed until such proceedings were terminated. on 21 february 2007 the applicant requested that the proceedings be resumed after the graz public prosecutor’s office (staatsanwaltschaft graz) had discontinued the criminal investigations. on 28 june 2007 the regional court held another hearing and on 12 july 2007 gave its judgment: it partly dismissed and partly granted the claim. on 14 april 2008 the court of appeal quashed parts of the judgment upon both parties’ appeals and, to this extent, remitted the case back to the regional court. on 16 december 2008 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal. on 31 may 2010 the regional court partly dismissed and partly rejected the applicant’s extended claim as inadmissible after holding hearings on 7 july and on 18 november 2009. on 15 february 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and on 28 april 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vienna. had a relationship with another woman and in october 1990 t.g. to pay the applicant provisional maintenance. on 23 february 1992 the district court appointed an expert to assess t.g. on 9 november 1992 and on 18 january 1993 hearings were held. on 19 october 2000 the district court held a hearing. on 13 february 2002 the district court asked the expert to supplement his report concerning t.g. the expert submitted his report on 1 april 2003. the liquidator refused to acknowledge that claim. on 14 october 2003 the district court lifted the ban on the pay-out of money from t.g. requested a reduction of the provisional maintenance payments because of the private insolvency proceedings pending against him. ’s request, and on 13 september 2005 the regional court confirmed the decision. the applicant did not appear because she was in hospital. on 11 september 2006 the applicant asked to address further letters of request to the zürich district court regarding more witnesses. on 21 march 2007 the applicant filed a second request for the acceleration of the proceedings. on 30 march 2010 the district court partly dismissed and partly refused the applicant’s claim regarding maintenance until the opening of the insolvency proceedings on 10 july 2003 by partial judgment (teilurteil). on 29 june 2011 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s extraordinary appeal on points of law (außerordentlicher revisionsrekurs), thus the partial judgment entered into force. after several hearings were postponed, another one took place on 27 november 2015. the private insolvency proceedings of t.g. several hearings were held between 10 september 2013 and 16 september 2014.
the applicant, mr piotr budnik, is a polish national who was born in 1980 and lives in leszno. the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in łowicz prison from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009 (2 years, 2 months and 22 days). the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in łowicz prison he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 sq. the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells during various unspecified periods from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. the overcrowding led to many quarrels between the prisoners as the tables did not have enough space for everybody. the applicant was placed in a solitary confinement cell for fourteen days as part of a disciplinary measure, where the toilet was not separated from the living space. in reply, the government submitted that the applicant had been held in solitary confinement owing to a need to monitor his behaviour. the number of stools and beds in all cells matched the number of inmates. all the cells were equipped with ventilation and heating systems. the applicant was entitled to one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. on 12 may 2009 the applicant, represented by a legal aid lawyer, brought a civil action over an infringement of his personal rights on account of the inadequate living conditions in łowicz prison from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. the applicant argued that he had been detained in overcrowded cells with space that was below the statutory minimum. he claimed 100,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 25,000 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 20 july 2012 the łódź regional court (sąd okregowy) granted the applicant pln 3,000 (eur 750) in compensation and dismissed the remainder of his claim. the domestic court found that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 27 january 2007 to 19 april 2009. moreover, he had been detained in a solitary confinement cell as a disciplinary punishment for fourteen days. on 1 march 2013 the łódź court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) amended the above judgment, increased the compensation to pln 7,000 (approximately eur 1,750) and dismissed the remainder of the action.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in düren. on 27 august 2010 the krefeld district court issued a warrant for his arrest as there was a strong suspicion that he had been trafficking drugs. on two previous occasions he had been stopped at the german border with 11 and 12.5 grams of heroin on him. the arrest warrant was based on the risk of him absconding as he could expect a considerable sentence for the offences in question, had no social ties, being unemployed and a drug addict, and had an unstable character. on the same day, in a separate decision, the district court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 8 december 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. in substance he mainly referred to his previous submissions. on 13 december 2010 he lodged an appeal against the judgment. the district court did not allow the appeal of 8 december 2010 relating to the applicant’s detention and referred it to the regional court, which dismissed it on 15 december 2010, finding that there continued to be a risk of the applicant absconding. in substance, again, he referred to his previous submissions. on 28 january 2011 the düsseldorf chief public prosecutor’s office (generalstaatsanwaltschaft – “the prosecution authorities”) submitted written observations to the court of appeal, requesting the dismissal of the applicant’s appeal of 5 january 2011. the applicant’s counsel received the observations from the prosecution authorities on 3 february 2011 and submitted a reply to the court of appeal on 10 february 2011. on 14 february 2011 the court of appeal’s decision of 3 february 2011 was served on the applicant. on an unspecified date the prosecution authorities submitted written observations in relation to the applicant’s request for a subsequent hearing. prior to the decision of 25 february 2011, the observations of the prosecution authorities relating to the request for a subsequent hearing had not been served on the applicant, who had thus had no opportunity to reply to them. the court of appeal nevertheless quoted and endorsed those observations in its decision. on 7 april 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint with the federal constitutional court. he alleged, in particular, that his right to be heard, as guaranteed by article 103 § 1 of the basic law (grundgesetz), had been violated, because the court of appeal had taken its decisions of 3 and 25 february 2011 without giving him the opportunity to reply to the observations of the prosecution authorities. on 28 july 2011 the federal constitutional court declined to accept the applicant’s constitutional complaint without providing reasons (2 bvr 805/11). its decision was served on him on 10 august 2011.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in novigrad. by a contract concluded in 1971 between a company, g.p. ( hereinafter “the claimant”), and the novigrad municipality certain plots of land were given to the former for its permanent use with a view to the construction of residential buildings thereon. these plots of land were registered in the land register as being publicly owned. in accordance with the contract, the claimant built residential buildings and sold all of them. meanwhile, on 27 december 1999, the applicant and the claimant had concluded a purchase agreement in respect of the plots of land that surrounded the residential buildings the claimant had built and that were the subject of the proceedings instituted on 6 october 2000. the defendant did not object to that valuation. after that, the defendant gave its reply to the claim on the record. on 25 february 2005 the buje municipal court allowed the claim. on 26 may 2009 the first-instance court dismissed the claim as ill-founded. further to this, the court had assessed the costs of the proceedings according to the value of the claim set at hrk 105,000 at the hearing on 14 june 2001. it ordered the claimant to bear these costs. the court administrator (sudski savjetnik). as well as the parties to the proceedings and their legal counsel. the applicant further complained of the assessment of the amount of the litigation costs. she was of the opinion that the value of the claim was the one indicated in the civil action, namely hrk 5,000, which should have been taken into account by the first-instance court when calculating the costs. on 18 october 2010 the pula county court upheld the first-instance judgment. she stated that the judge had not been present at the hearings and that the judge had signed the records of the hearings afterwards. on 2 december 2011 the applicant informed the constitutional court that her appeal on points of law had been declared inadmissible and that she wished to add the supreme court’s decision to her constitutional complaint. on 29 march 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1971 and was at the material time serving a prison sentence in rustavi prison no. he was placed under investigation that day and questioned twice. the applicant was identified by the victims. maintaining his innocence, he refused to sign the record of the identification procedure. he subsequently had chemotherapy on a sporadic basis. he had lost weight and the chronic hcv had worsened. on 16 december 2006 he was moved from the prison hospital to rustavi prison no. the lawyer asked the court of appeal to order an expert report to reassess his client’s state of health, determine whether the prison hospital was able to provide him with the necessary treatment and whether the conditions of his detention could have a negative impact on his health. on 24 april 2007 his doctor concluded that the applicant required a transfer to the nco for more chemotherapy. the doctor subsequently reiterated his recommendation, however, it was in vain as no transfer followed. according to his medical records, he suffered constant pain and regularly received strong painkillers. the doctor in charge noted on a regular basis in the medical record that the applicant needed to be transferred to the nco urgently. on 7 september 2007 he was transferred back to the prison hospital with a recommendation for regular quarterly medical tests. on 22 september 2007 he was sent to rustavi prison no. on 28 march 2008 the court, acting under rule 39 of the rules of court, indicated to the government that the applicant should be placed in the prison hospital, where he could be provided with adequate medical treatment for his cancer and chronic hcv. on 7 and 8 july 2008 the applicant asked the court, under rule 39, to indicate to the government to transfer him to the nco for chemotherapy. on 14 july 2008 the applicant was transferred to the nco, where he had a tomography scan, which showed that there had been no progression of his retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy in the abdominal cavity and that tumour markers were within normal limits. the results showed no replication of the hepatitis and accordingly no need for antiviral treatment. as a result his diagnosis was defined as follows: cancer of the right testicle at the first stage in clinical group iii in a post‑chemotherapy and post-resection period. furthermore, he was deprived of basic items of hygiene, such as toilet paper, soap and bed linen.
the applicants were born in 1984, 2002, 2005, 1935, 1948, 1973, 1983, 1973, 1969 and 1976 respectively and live in tunceli. the hozat public prosecutor prepared his report on his visit to the area on 28 september 2007. there were more extensive blood stains in the two places where the men had been found. the distance between the place where the bullet cases were found and the country lane where the soldiers had been standing was 120 metres. he was formally identified by a relative who also told the authorities that he had gone to that place to collect wood. the doctors established the cause of death as hypovolemic shock caused as a result of the laceration of the left great saphenous vein. the soldiers had fired in the air and repeated their warnings and at that moment fire which sounded as though it was from a kalashnikov-type rifle had been opened in the direction of the soldiers from the river bed. at dawn the following day they had continued their search and found eight to ten spent cartridges discharged from kalashnikov rifles. told the prosecutor how he, together with thirty-nine other soldiers and their commander, first lieutenant i̇.y., on 10 october 2007 the prosecutor questioned b.a., after their arrival they had left the road, collected the bee colony from a tree and taken it on horseback to the motorbike at around 11 a.m. at that moment a group of eight or nine soldiers had appeared and asked them what they were doing. the prosecutor also stated that a list of the items which the tenth applicant had been supplying to the terrorist organisation had been included in the indictment. it referred to the report drawn up by the hozat public prosecutor on 28 september 2007 in which it was stated that the food supplies and other materials referred to in the malatya public prosecutor’s indictment had indeed been found in the two pits, but noted that there was no evidence in the prosecutor’s indictment showing that the tenth applicant had had anything to do with those items. on 7 may 2008 the malatya assize court ordered the tenth applicant’s release from the prison. four of the remaining five military personnel made similar statements. in the hozat public prosecutor’s decision the six military personnel were referred to as “suspects” of the offences of “attempted murder” and “murder”. the military prosecutor’s decision recorded that another statement had apparently been taken from the tenth applicant in his capacity as a “suspect”, by the prosecutor on 9 november 2007 before he was brought before the hozat magistrates’ court (see paragraphs 26-27 above) in which he had apparently told the prosecutor that he and bülent karataş had gone to the area on the evening of 26 september 2007 and not on the morning of 27 september 2007. at that moment bülent karataş had been taken to a different location by the soldiers and the tenth applicant had been ordered to kneel down. it also appears that a forensic pathologist was asked by the military prosecutor to examine the post mortem report of 27 september 2007 (see paragraph 12 above) in order to assist the military prosecutor in his investigation. furthermore, the allegations made by the former member of the terrorist organisation could not be accepted as representing the truth because what he had told the authorities was only hearsay and vague, and he had not actually witnessed anything in person.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in tallinn. he was operated on in 2006, and underwent regular check-ups. on 19 september 2009 the applicant called an ambulance and o. was taken to the north estonia medical centre (“the nemc”) (põhja-eesti regionaalhaigla) for examination. according to the applicant, o. was told that the scan had not revealed any problems with his health. he was prescribed an anti-vomiting drug and discharged from the hospital the same evening. on 6 october 2009 o. was transferred to an intensive care unit because he was suffering from progressive respiratory failure and a disturbed state of mind. on 9 october 2009 a tracheotomy was performed on o. 14. on 12 october 2009 o. stopped breathing and mechanical ventilation was applied. on 13 october 2009 characteristics corresponding to brain death were ascertained. the applicant disagreed with this finding and rather considered that o. had fallen into a coma following an overdose of medicine. on 15 october 2009 o.’s heart stopped and the mechanical ventilation was terminated. on 16 october 2009 an autopsy was performed at the nemc. on 8 march 2010 the health board informed the applicant that the case had been transmitted to the expert committee. the expert committee also heard the applicant. according to the report of the expert committee’s meeting of 25 march 2010 at which the applicant was also present, the expert committee gave oral answers to the applicant’s questions regarding the possible radiation of o. during his previous treatment; the decision not to offer chemotherapy to o.; and the alleged late detection of pneumonia. in addition, the expert committee’s decision contained written answers to the applicant, stating that o. had not suffered from a stroke; that the deterioration in his health had not been caused by the administration of specific medication or the withdrawal thereof, but rather by the metastatic developments in his brain; and that based on the medical records, o. had not been starved, nor had his mechanical ventilation been stopped before his death. criminal proceedings under article 123 of the penal code (placing or leaving another person in a situation which is life-threatening or likely to cause serious damage to the person’s health) were initiated on 1 april 2010. the prosecutor posed ten questions to the forensic medical experts addressing, inter alia, o.’s diagnoses; the adequacy of the treatment with respect to his state of health (including the tracheotomy); the restraining of o. to the bed; the administration of medicine on 12 october 2009 and whether this could have caused o.’s breathing to stop; the decision to cease the administration of medicine and food on 13 october 2009; the assertion that o. was brain-dead; and the decision to stop mechanical ventilation. they considered that the restraining of o. to the bed could have been justified in the instant case. on 28 january 2013 the tallinn court of appeal dismissed a further appeal lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in torre del greco. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, can be summarised as follows. in january 1990, a few years after she had applied to the interior ministry for a disability pension, ms t.g., the applicant’s mother, was granted an entitlement to the monthly payment of the pension together with a special allowance on account of her partial blindness. filed an application with torre annunziata district court (pretore), sitting as an employment tribunal, to obtain acknowledgment of a re-evaluation of her pension and interest on the arrears. on 27 march 1998, after the hearing had been adjourned three times, the district court dismissed the application as out of time. on 10 march 1999, the applicant, lodged an appeal against that decision, on her own behalf and in her capacity as heir, in naples district court. on 10 december 2002 that court acknowledged the applicant’s right to the recalculated sum and interest for a total of eur 12,240.26. the decision became final on 25 january 2004. as the decision was not enforced by the relevant authorities, on 14 june 2004 the applicant served a payment order (atto di precetto) on the national social security agency (istituto nazionale della previdenza sociale – inps) for eur 30,364.38, representing the sum claimed, with interest and taking account of the re-evaluation. on 25 january 2005 she obtained a garnishee order (pignoramento presso terzi) from the naples enforcement judge in respect of her whole claim. on 25 may 2005 the applicant lodged an appeal with the “pinto” division of the rome court of appeal, complaining about the excessive length of the proceedings. with regard to the admissibility of her appeal, she argued that, under section 4 of law no. 89/2001 (the “pinto act”), the “final domestic decision” to be taken into account was that of the enforcement judge of 25 january 2005. in consequence, she argued, the six-month deadline for lodging the claim for just satisfaction ought to run from that date. on 18 may 2006 the court of appeal declared the appeal inadmissible as out of time, taking the view that the final domestic decision to be taken into consideration was that delivered by the naples district court in the proceedings on the merits, a decision which had become final on 25 january 2004. the court of cassation upheld that decision on 25 september 2008 and dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1987 and was serving a prison sentence in nubarashen penal facility (see paragraph 27 below) at the time when he lodged his application with the court. on 29 april 2006 the dead body of a fellow serviceman, a.h., he was hanging from a tree with his arms tied behind his back with wire. on an unspecified date the head of the disciplinary isolation facility of the military police department addressed the following letter to investigator a.k.: to beatings and, on 28 april 2006, had murdered him by hanging him from a tree. about 10 days later, when i was being questioned as a witness, the investigator took off my shoes. every day they would take me to a room and try, by beatings and threats, to force me to give evidence in the way they wanted. they drove me to such a state that i told them i wanted to die. they immediately put a blank sheet of paper in front of me, gave me a pen and said that if i wrote down that i wished to commit suicide they would assist me in doing so. i was kept in [the military police headquarters] and isolation cell not for 10 days but for 18 days. on 15 june the investigator, together with my defence lawyer, visited me at the [nubarashen detention facility] and produced a forensic expert opinion according to which the grains of sand discovered on the soles of my military shoes corresponded to those taken from the site of the crime. provided the materials of the case file to the applicant and his lawyer. alleged that they had been ill-treated during the investigation. ’s nose was deformed and that he had told them that he had injured his nose before his conscription. it imposed an aggregate sentence of nine and a half years’ imprisonment. on 25 july 2008 the court of cassation granted the appeal. on 12 november 2008 the criminal court of appeal examined the case anew and changed the applicant’s offence in connection with a.h. he claimed, inter alia, that the applicant had been beaten and tortured by military police officers and that when he and r.h. had been beaten and tortured by the military police. ... as it appears from the decision of 23 september 2006 ..., no criminal proceedings were instituted ... on account of the ill-treatment of [the applicant] and [r.h.]
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant’s father entered the united kingdom in 1991. on 5 june 1995 the applicant’s mother claimed asylum on undisclosed grounds. the applicant and his two siblings were named dependents on that claim. the secretary of state for the home department refused the asylum claim on 15 april 1998. following a reconsideration of the case in august 1999, the secretary of state again refused the asylum claim but granted the family four years’ exceptional leave to remain in the united kingdom. his mother and siblings have since become british citizens. in or around this time the secretary of state considered instigating deportation proceedings against the applicant. on 30 june 2006 he decided not to pursue such proceedings owing to the length of his residence in the united kingdom. he was released on licence on 3 march 2011. she did accept that he enjoyed private life in the united kingdom but did not consider that his removal would be disproportionate to the legitimate interest of preventing disorder and crime. finally, she had regard to the seriousness of his criminal record, the sixteen adjudications he had received while in detention, and the fact that he had been warned about the risk of reoffending in 2006. the applicant appealed against this decision. in addition, it found that he had also established a private life in the united kingdom; that he had no experience of living in nigeria, save for a short period as a baby and a two week holiday in 2004; that he had no close relatives in, and no ties to, nigeria; that he had indicated his remorse and given assurances that he would not offend again; and that his working and studying whilst in detention supported those assurances. on 31 october 2011 the upper tribunal (iac) found there to have been a material error of law in the decision of the first-tier tribunal. the tribunal further noted that he had no girlfriend or children in the united kingdom, he was in good health, and he would not face any language difficulties as there was a universal use of english in nigeria. it noted that the applicant’s most recent conviction was for a serious offence which had attracted a sentence of seven years’ detention; that following the amendment of the immigration rules, “exceptional circumstances” would be required to prevent deportation; and that those “exceptional circumstances” were inextricably bound up with the applicant’s article 8 rights. on 23 october 2013 the upper tribunal refused the application for permission to appeal. following the refusal of the application for permission to apply for judicial review, the applicant had no right to renew the application at an oral hearing in the administrative court. on 4 august 2015 the secretary of state advised the applicant that an application to the nigerian authorities for a travel document, required to effect his deportation from the united kingdom, was pending.
the applicants are the next-of-kin of several roma who died or disappeared in the circumstances described below. by 21 october 1999 the investigating judge had (a) questioned two suspects who were available to the authorities at the time, as well as thirty other individuals in relation to the incident, including the eleventh applicant; (b) requested that some other witnesses be questioned by the relevant authorities in serbia; and (c) asked for the autopsy reports, an expert opinion on the capacity of the boat and a report on the weather conditions on the night of the incident. the eleventh applicant was questioned on 10 september 1999. they had not called her from podgorica or mentioned that they had intended to go to italy. on 24 september 2003 the court decided to recommence the trial hearing due to the passage of time. by 14 april 2004 ten hearings had been scheduled, six of which took place. she also confirmed that she was illiterate. by 20 october 2004 the high court had questioned four of the defendants, while the fifth had chosen to remain silent. it also ordered that the remaining three defendants be brought before the court. on 11 november 2004 an investigating judge of the high court decided to initiate a formal judicial investigation against the eight individuals, a decision which was upheld by the high court on 25 november 2004. on 25 february 2006 the high state prosecutor urged the investigating judge to finish the investigation. between 24 and 28 november 2006 the indictment was served on four of the defendants. the other two were based in serbia and bosnia and herzegovina respectively. in the course of 2010 seven hearings were scheduled. the fifth defendant chose to remain silent. in the course of 2013 nine hearings were scheduled, five of which were adjourned because one of the defendants, two lawyers, an expert witness, a judge, and/or the interpreter did not attend. the lawyers were fined 500 euros (eur) for their unjustified absence. he recommended that the high court undertake all necessary steps to terminate the proceedings as soon as possible. on 19 august 1999 the only surviving passenger was found guilty of boarding the boat on 16 august 1999 with the intention of illegally crossing the border to italy and was fined by the misdemeanour court (sud za prekršaje) in kotor. in the course of 2002 a number of family members of those who had disappeared, two of them applicants in the present case, urged that the proceedings at issue be expedited.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in prague. it started an investigation in order to verify the information received. in the course of that investigation the intelligence service provided the authority with other information, dated 21 march 2006, classified “restricted” and annexed to the security file (bezpečnostní spis) under number 77. on the basis of that information the authority revoked the security clearance on 5 september 2006. with regard to that risk, the decision did not however indicate which confidential information it was based on, as this was classified “restricted” and could not therefore legally be disclosed to the applicant. the decision indicated that the facts established in respect of his conduct, as documented in the information received by the authority on 7 october 2005, cast doubt on his suitability for security clearance and his ability not to be influenced and to keep sensitive information secret, and thus indicated that he was no longer trustworthy. in the meantime, on 4 october 2006, the applicant had asked to be discharged, for health reasons, from his duties as deputy to the first vice-minister of defence, and from those of director of the department of administration of the ministry’s property. he was removed from office on the same day under article 65 § 2 of the labour code (see paragraph 26 below). on 20 october 2006 he signed an agreement, under article 43 of the labour code, terminating his contract by mutual consent with effect from 31 january 2007. he and his lawyer were permitted to consult the file, but the parts classified as confidential were excluded. at the public hearing the applicant was given the opportunity to make his submissions and to state what he thought were the reasons for revoking his security clearance. it observed that in a procedure revoking security clearance the relevant authority could only disclose reasons for revoking clearance that were based on non-classified documents and that as regards grounds based on classified documents it had to confine itself to referring to the relevant documents and their level of confidentiality. it considered that the classified documents in question had shown beyond any doubt that the applicant did not satisfy the statutory conditions to be entrusted with secret information. it observed that the risk in his regard concerned his conduct, which affected his credibility and his ability to keep information secret. it went on to observe that, owing to the special nature of proceedings where classified information was concerned, not all the applicant’s procedural rights could be guaranteed but that the non-disclosure of the exact reasons underlying the decision to revoke security clearance was counterbalanced by the guarantee that the administrative courts had unlimited access to the classified documents. 77, contained specific, comprehensive and detailed information concerning the conduct and lifestyle of the applicant on the basis of which the court was satisfied in the present case as to its relevance for determining whether the applicant posed a national security risk. in a judgment of 18 november 2010 the court dismissed his complaint as manifestly ill-founded. it considered that in the present case the courts’ conduct had been duly justified and the reasoning in their decisions comprehensible and in conformity with the constitution; that they had not departed from procedural standards and constitutional rules to an inordinate degree; and that the constitutional court was not therefore required to intervene in their decision-making procedure. the applicant was indicted for participation in organised crime (účast na zločinném spolčení); aiding and abetting abuse of public power (pomoc k trestnému činu zneužívání pravomoci veřejného činitele); complicity in illegally influencing public tendering and public procurement procedures (pomoc k trestnému činu pletich při veřejné soutěži a veřejné dražbě); and aiding and abetting breaches of binding rules governing economic relations (pomoc k trestnému činu porušování závazných pravidel hospodářského styku). in a judgment of 27 may 2016 the prague high court (vrchní soud) upheld the first-instance judgment convicting the applicant, but suspended execution of his prison sentence for a two-year probationary period.
the first applicant company, axel springer se, is a publishing house operated in the legal form of a societas europea registered in berlin. on 14 june 2010 the defendant, s., then aged 28, was arrested. several german newspapers reported on the case. some published pictures of s., which mostly showed him at a much younger age. the public prosecutor’s office obtained a psychiatric expert opinion in october 2010. the expert concluded that s. was suffering from a schizoid personality disorder at the time when he had committed the offence. the trial against s. began on 11 january 2011 at the potsdam regional court. the applicant companies submitted a copy of an email of a journalist who attended the hearing confirming the alleged statement of the presiding judge. the government submitted that according to the presiding judge no such statement had been made. s. repeated his confession on the first day of the hearing. it pointed out, inter alia, that several unpixelated pictures of s. had been published in different newspapers before. on 17 january 2011 the presiding judge supplemented his order and provided his reasons in writing. journalists were barred from further reporting on the case if they failed to comply with the order. the presiding judge stated in his reasons that he had to balance the public interest in being informed and the personality rights of s. he acknowledged that the crime at issue was very different from “usual crimes” and that permitting only pictures that disguised s. impaired the public’s ability to be informed. no nationwide television channel besides the second applicant had shown any interest in reporting on it. consequently, according to the presiding judge the personality rights of s., who had never been in the public eye or sought to contact the media and who had expressly requested that his identity be concealed, outweighed the public interest in being informed. on 18 january 2011 the presiding judge sent the supplemented written order to a number of journalists, including some who worked for the applicant companies. on 4 february 2011 the presiding judge upheld the order. further hearings took place on 20 and 27 january 2011 and on 8 february 2011. on 1 february 2012 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint by the applicant companies, without providing reasons (no.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in tbilisi. was stabbed several times in a secondary school playground. there were no eyewitnesses to the incident. a forensic chemical examination report no. ’s wounds had been inflicted with a sharp object and that taken together, they had been life-threatening. between 16 and 20 february 2007 the same forensic expert carried out an additional examination and issued report no. based on the [existing evidence and the victim’s statements] ... was the victim capable of showing resistance to g. kuparadze or otherwise defending himself ...? in view of the [victim’s] statements and considering the mechanism used to inflict the injuries described in the [forensic reports], how plausible is it that g. kuparadze inflicted them on the [victim] by holding his shoulder with one hand while the latter was initially kneeling and then crawling on the ground face-down? this was followed by a more detailed account and an assessment of the matter. considering the nature and location of t.t. ’s medical file and the first-instance court judgment. ’s statement, by holding his shoulder with one hand while he was initially kneeling and then crawling on the ground face-down, in view of the mechanism used to inflict the wounds [described in the forensic and forensic medical reports]? ’s body and [through his] clothes not with one but with two sharp objects, possibly knives, of different sizes, 2 and 4 centimetres wide [respectively]. in particular, information as to which specific materials were presented [to the experts] and relied on when reaching the conclusions is missing; the research part of the forensic report contains a legal assessment of the [first-instance court] judgment and of a number of pieces of evidence, whereas under article 96 of the code of criminal procedure an expert examination is not to be carried out to determine legal matters. as regards the second alternative forensic report, the court noted the following:“the court cannot accept the findings of the [second alternative forensic report] as they are also speculative. on 12 september 2008 the supreme court of georgia dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant as inadmissible. 5, and instructed the relevant authority to separate the inmates accordingly. she was alone in a cell for five months and subsequently shared the cell with two other juveniles. in letters dated 6 march and 24 april 2009 addressed to the minister of corrections and legal assistance, the public defender expressed his concerns about the conditions of the applicant’s detention in prison no. on 23 september 2009 the tbilisi court of appeal rejected the appeal as manifestly ill-founded in a final decision.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in rochefort, france. on 10 december 2008 the applicant and c.b. she claimed that she would return two days later. on 16 march 2010 the rochefort investigating judge issued an arrest warrant against c.b. in a complaint lodged with the french authorities on 15 december 2011. on 6 april 2009 the district court, after hearing the applicant and c.b. on 18 november 2009 the applicant filed a request with the district court for enforcement of the return order. claimed to have fulfilled the conditions set out in the decisions of the regional court and the supreme court by returning the children to france (and not to the applicant). and the children at her and her mother’s addresses in vienna. ’s representative had informed the court that her current address was her mother’s in vienna, where for the purposes of enforcement of the return order c.b. on 21 september 2010 the regional court dismissed appeals by c.b. against the regional court’s decision of 13 april 2010. ’s allegations, but also on psychological tests of the children and their mother. in its reasoning, the district court further reiterated that a court could only refuse to return a child for the reasons set out under article  13 (b) of the hague convention if it was not established that adequate measures to protect the child’s best interests after his or her return would be taken. had to start serving her prison sentence once she entered france. ’s behaviour concerning the removal of the children from france in itself, but also with regard to her delaying tactics in the present proceedings, was unacceptable. and the children and the reasons why the return order had not been enforced. regarding the aca’s requests for safeguards to secure the protection of the children, the fca pointed out at the beginning of the enforcement proceedings that there were no obstacles impeding the children’s return to their father as the competent french judge had already determined that their main residence was at his home; thus, the french youth welfare office would not be notified of the children’s return to france. in a letter of 14 march 2014 the fca submitted a report which the public prosecutor at the poitiers court of appeal had made on 14 february 2014, in reply to the district court’s request of 15 november 2013 (see paragraph 60 above). however, in the event of her return to france together with her children, the public prosecutor would be prepared to withdraw her from the fpr on the grounds that the children’s return would make it possible for the applicant to see his children, so that the objective of the arrest warrant would then also be achieved.
the applicants were born in 1975 and 1976 respectively and live in grozny. m. was the owner of a three-roomed flat at at 35-122, ulitsa starosunzhenskaya, grozny, chechen republic. on 26 march 1996 m.’s husband sold the flat to a. the transaction and a.’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities. on an unspecified date m. and her family moved from grozny to the krasnodar region abandoning the flat. on 21 april 1998 they applied for the compensation for the loss of the flat resulting from the military conflict in chechnya. on 22 december 2000 m. received the compensation. on 24 march 2010 a. sold the flat to the second applicant. the transaction and the second applicant’s title to the flat were duly registered by the state authorities. the applicants moved into the flat and resided there. on an unspecified date the housing department of grozny lodged a civil action against a. and the first applicant seeking the invalidation of the purchase of the flat by a. and claiming the title to the flat. on 1 february 2011 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the judgment of 7 december 2010 on appeal. on 18 june 2010 the leninskiy district court of grozniy granted the second applicant’s claim and removed the flat from the data base listing the flats in respect of which the former owners received compensation from the state. on 30 april 2013 the district court re-opened the case in view of newly discovered circumstances concerning a third party’s right to the reside in the flat. lodged a civil action seeking the applicants’ eviction. she claimed that in 1999 the municipal authorities had assigned the flat to her under the social housing agreement. on 28 june 2011 the district court rejected mur. it also invalidated the assignment of the flat to mur. on 26 may 2014 the district court considered the claims lodged by the second applicant and mur. had failed to present any original document confirming the assignment of the flat to her under the social housing agreement. according to the government, the applicants were not evicted and continue to reside in the flat.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in ufa. on 26 december 2006 a new block of flats was commissioned by the ufa town administration. on 30 september 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised t.’s title to the flat at 66/2-54, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. on 28 october 2010 t. sold the flat to m. the transaction and m.’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities. on 13 january 2011 m. sold the flat to the applicant. the transaction and the applicant’s title to the flat were registered by the state registration authorities. on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of the applicant’s title to the flat and eviction. on 23 july 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. the court established that the judgment of 30 september 2010 had been forged and that t. had died in 2008 and could not have been a party to the relevant proceedings. the court refused to recognise that the applicant had purchased the flat in good faith for her failure to check the authenticity of the judgment of 30 september 2010. it further took into account that m. had sold the flat to the applicant for 180,000 russian roubles (rub) while she had bought it for rub 190,000. on 17 november 2013 the supreme court of the republic of bashkortostan upheld the judgment of 23 july 2013 on appeal. on 4 april 2014 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal. on 9 july 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation rejected the applicant’s second cassation appeal. according to the government, the eviction order was not enforced and the applicant continues to reside in the flat.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in beloljin, republic of serbia. in 1997 the maribor unit of the surveying and mapping authority (hereinafter the “maribor unit”) issued several decisions concerning the delimitation of real estate belonging to the applicant and to company d., and ordering changes in respect of the use of land. the applicant appealed against some of those decisions. on 28 september 2000 the ministry for the environment and spatial planning (hereinafter the “ministry”) granted the applicant’s appeal in part and annulled a decision issued on 12 february 1997 while it dismissed the appeal concerning two decisions issued on 31 january 1997. on 23 november 2000 the applicant challenged the aforementioned decision of the ministry in the part dismissing his appeal by instituting proceedings before the administrative court. on 6 november 2003 the administrative court granted the applicant’s appeal, annulled the challenged part of the decision of 28 september 2000 (see paragraph 6 above) and referred the case back to the ministry who, in turn, referred it to the maribor unit. on 24 may 2006 the supreme court dismissed the appeal and upheld the administrative court’s judgment. this decision was served on the applicant on 4 july 2006. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. on 19 december 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint. the decision was served on the applicant on 10 january 2008. on 10 july 2015, referring to section 25 of the 2006 act, which regulates the domestic settlement proceedings in cases where an application to an international court had been lodged before the 2006 act entered into force (see paragraph 14 below), the state attorney’s office sent the applicant a settlement offer. in the offer they emphasised that the proceedings before the constitutional court could not have given rise to a violation of the “reasonable time” requirement. in respect of redress they offered to provide the applicant with a written statement in which they would acknowledge that his right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated in the proceedings before the administrative court and the supreme court. the offer was served on the applicant on 24 july 2015.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1978 respectively and are detained in vilnius correctional facility and kybartai correctional facility. the first applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 11 january 2011 to 3 november 2011. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in four different remand prison cells: nos. in 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages. he argued that the conditions in which he had been held in šiauliai remand prison had been degrading: cell no. 104, although renovated, lacked sufficient ventilation and was cold, and there was almost no natural light; cell no. 29 had insufficient light and ventilation; cell no. 37 was dirty, the electrical system was damaged and thus dangerous, the sanitary facilities were not separated from the cell, the cell lacked light, ventilation and the temperature was too low. the applicant also submitted a document from the šiauliai health care centre from 19 april 2012, which noted violations of hygiene norms in the remand prison’s cells. on 21 december 2012 the šiauliai regional administrative court held that the applicant’s right to adequate conditions of detention had been breached but dismissed his claim for compensation. moreover, it was up to the applicant to prove that he had sustained damage. the applicant appealed but on 17 july 2013 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. the documents submitted to the court show that he was held in several different cells: nos. on 27 december 2011 the applicant instituted proceedings for damages and on 9 january 2012 he submitted a detailed complaint. as a result, his health had deteriorated: his sight had worsened and he had pain in his joints and his back. 101 on 7 january 2011, while the applicant had been detained there from 5 january 2011 to 3 february 2011 and from 14 february 2011 to 28 april 2011. the cell had been dirty, the toilet doors broken, and there was mould on the walls and ceiling. 101 on 27 april 2011 and established that there was no longer any mould and the temperature was satisfactory, but the lighting was still insufficient. however, the court noted that the applicant had not proven the existence of unsanitary conditions in the other cells. the court also noted that during the hearing the applicant had claimed that all the cells had been overcrowded but he had failed to mention this in his written complaint.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in baku. a demonstration was planned to be held on 12 march 2011 in baku. on the day of the applicant’s arrest, an administrative-offence report (inzibati xəta haqqında protokol) was drawn up in respect of him by police officer e.g. the report stated that at around 2.55 p.m., at fountains square in baku, the applicant had attempted to hold an unlawful demonstration and had disobeyed a lawful order of a police officer. according to the applicant, he has never been served with a copy of the administrative-offence report or with other documents from his case file. he was also not given access to a lawyer after the arrest or while he was in police custody. a state-funded lawyer was appointed to assist the applicant. made any oral or written submissions on behalf of the applicant. by a decision of 12 march 2011, the court convicted the applicant under article 310.1 of the cao and sentenced him to eight days’ administrative detention. which, according to the applicant, showed his arrest and custody in the police stations. he further asked the court to order a handwriting examination of the report prepared by police officers m.a. in order to establish whether his name had been added to it by one of those two police officers. the court did not address the applicant’s above‑mentioned requests to summon and examine the witnesses on his behalf and to examine the video recordings. on 12 april 2011 the sabail district court re-examined the case. according to the applicant, he was not given an opportunity to appoint a lawyer of his own choosing. a state-funded lawyer was appointed to assist him. on an unspecified date the applicant appealed. the applicant repeated his allegation that his name had been added as the eleventh person on the list in the mentioned report later. on the same day he was detained pending trial. the circumstances relating to mr aliyev’s arrest and detention are the subject of a separate application brought by him before the court (application no. it held that the searches had been conducted in accordance with the relevant law.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in ufa. on 26 december 2006 a new block of flats was commissioned by the town of ufa at 66/2, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. according to the documents submitted by u. to state registration authorities, on 19 july 2010 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa recognised his title to the flat at 66/2-39, ulitsa kommunarov, ufa. the state registration authorities registered u.’s title. on 30 october 2010 u. sold the flat to m. on 22 november 2010 the state registration authorities registered the said transaction and m.’s title to the flat. on 12 february 2011 z., acting on m.’s behalf by virtue of the power of attorney, and the applicant signed a contract according to which a. sold the flat to the applicant. z. and the applicant submitted the documents for the registration of the transaction and the transfer of the title to the flat to the applicant. according to the applicant, she paid the amount due under the contract to z. and moved into the flat while her application for the registration of the transfer of the title to the flat to her was still pending. on an unspecified date a third party brought a civil action challenging u.’s sale of the flat to m. and the latter’s title to the flat. on 28 february 2011 the ordzhonikidzevskiy district court of ufa issued an injunction in respect of the transactions with the flat. on an unspecified date the housing foundation of the republic of bashkortostan brought a civil claim seeking, inter alia, the invalidation of m.’s title to the flat and the applicant’s eviction. on 23 august 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. it invalidated the purchase of the flat by m. and ordered the applicant’s eviction. the court considered that the applicant had not acquired the title to the flat and had no legal basis for moving into the flat and residing there. on 7 november 2013 the supreme court of republic of bashkortostan upheld the judgment of 23 august 2013 on appeal. on 12 may 2014 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s cassation appeal. on an unspecified date the applicant asked the district court to stay the eviction proceedings. she submitted that the flat had been her only place of residence and that, in view of her financial situation, she was unable to buy or rent another flat. on 24 march 2014 the district court stayed the eviction proceedings for three months. on 24 february 2015 the applicant was evicted.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in tolyatti. the applicant is the widow of mr vitaliy sergeyevich postnov. on 5 december 2000 the leninskiy district court of ulyanovsk (“the district court”) ordered the administration of the ulyanovsk region to pay mr postnov 228,000 russian roubles (rub) in reimbursement of costs for purchase of housing. the amount was to be paid from the federal budget funds allocated for housing of the military servicemen. the district court further awarded mr postnov rub 810, the cost of the expert examination. on 15 december 2000 the decision of the district court came into force. in january 2001 mr postnov obtained two writs of execution and forwarded them to the bailiffs’ service in ulyanovsk. on 16 june 2003 the applicant joined the enforcement proceedings in her late husband’s stead, pursuant to a domestic court’s decision. in 2003 the applicant and the bailiff in charge of the enforcement proceedings applied for changing the method of execution of the judgment of 5 december 2000. on 25 november 2003 the district court refused the application for changing the method of execution. on 22 december 2004 the writ of execution in respect of rub 228,000 was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement. on 30 january 2005 the judgment of the district court in the part concerning rub 810 was enforced. on 13 november 2003, 13 july 2004, and 20 may 2005 the district court index-linked the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 5 december 2000, and awarded her rub 169,846.46, rub 17,401.28, and rub 36,517.69 respectively. these amounts were to be paid from the federal budget funds allocated for housing of the military servicemen. on 31 may 2006 the applicant submitted all the writs of execution to the bailiffs’ service. on 2 june 2006 the bailiffs initiated the execution proceedings. on 6 june 2006 the proceedings were terminated. the writs of execution were returned to the applicant as the compulsory enforcement of the judicial decisions in question was impossible. in 2005-2006 the applicant submitted the enforcement documents to the ministry of finance of russia and the federal treasury department for the ulyanovsk region. each time the writs of execution were returned to the applicant without enforcement.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in hadžići. on 22 november 2011 the applicant was arrested and detained on suspicion of having committed war crimes against the civilian population and against prisoners of war during the 1992-95 war. on 23 november 2011 the state court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”) reviewed and extended his detention based on the risk of his obstructing the course of justice by exerting pressure on witnesses and co-accused or by destroying evidence. on 1 december 2011 that decision was upheld by the appeals chamber of the state court. on 21 december 2011 the state court further extended the applicant’s detention on the same grounds as before. on 5 january 2012 that decision was upheld by the appeals chamber of the state court. on 29 december 2011 the state prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant and seven other co-suspects, which was confirmed by the state court on 10 january 2012. thereafter, the applicant’s detention was regularly examined and extended every two months by the state court. in addition to those automatic reviews, the applicant repeatedly challenged his detention before the appeals chamber of the state court. on 23 february 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, relying on article ii § 3.(d) of the constitution (see paragraph 16 below) and article 5 of the convention. he alleged, in particular, that his detention had been arbitrary and excessive, and that it had not been based on relevant and sufficient reasons. on 13 july 2012 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”), in a formation of eight judges, rejected the applicant’s appeal since it could not reach a majority on any of the proposals. the court’s reasoning included all the views expressed at the session on the issues raised in the case. pursuant to article vi § 4 of the constitution (see paragraph 16 below) that decision was final. on 1 november 2012 the state court held that the grounds for the applicant’s continued detention had ceased to apply and released the applicant. by the same decision, the court imposed preventive measures on the applicant which included the following: a prohibition on leaving his place of residence without the prior approval of the state court save for the purpose of appearing before that court; the duty to report once a week to the hadžići police; a prohibition on associating with other co-accused and on associating or having contact with the witnesses. furthermore, the applicant’s passport was seized. the preventive measures were reviewed and extended every two months. at the date of the latest information available to the court (22 july 2016), the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in murmansk. on 24 september 2004 the applicant was arrested on charges of robbery. two days later the polyarniy town court of the murmansk region imposed on the applicant an undertaking not to leave the place of his residence. on 21 february 2005 the town court, presided by judge d., convicted the applicant of robbery and forgery, sentenced him to seven years and four months of imprisonment and ordered his detention pending the appeal proceedings. on 3 may 2005 the murmansk regional court, under the presidency of judge k., quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case to the town court for a fresh examination, ordering that the applicant should remain in custody. the applicant’s detention was once again extended by the town court, presided by judge d., on 16 august 2005. the applicant challenged the presiding judge on the ground that he had convicted him on 21 february 2005. the applicant also raised that point in his statement of appeal against the detention order. on 6 september 2005 the regional court, presided by judge k., found no grounds for judge d. to step down. on 18 november 2005 the town court further extended the applicant’s detention. the parties disagreed as to whether the applicant had been served with a copy of that detention order. while the applicant argued that he had never received it, the government stated that the detention order had been served on him on 5 december 2005. they supported their claim with a copy of the town court’s letter of 29 november 2005 by which the detention order had been forwarded to the applicant and a copy of the detention order from his personal file kept in a remand prison, bearing the applicant’s signature and the date of receipt. on several occasions the trial court adjourned hearings in the applicant’s case. in particular, on 30 november 2005 the hearing was re-scheduled for 15 december 2005 because the applicant and his co-defendant asked to summon several defence witnesses. in the same decision the court, of its own motion, extended the applicant’s detention. the applicant appealed, complaining, in particular, that the detention order of 15 december 2005 was delivered in his counsel’s absence. on 17 january 2006 the regional court, presided by judge k., dismissed the appeal, having noted that the counsel had failed to appear without providing any explanation for his absence. on 10 april 2006 the town court convicted the applicant of extortion and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment and a fine of 3,000 russian roubles (rub). the regional court upheld the conviction on 5 september 2006, but reduced the sentence.
the first applicant was born in 1971 and lives in leverkusen, germany. she is the daughter of the second and third applicants who were born in 1943 and 1942 respectively and lived in tambov, russia. the second applicant ms galina zabelina died in 2013. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the brother of the first applicant and the son of the second and third applicants, was charged with large-scale fraud; his name was placed on the list of fugitives from justice. he was accused of embezzling the assets of the companies under his management. the wronged companies filed a claim for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage. on 12 may 2007 a senior operational officer from the federal security service sent a letter to the investigator in charge of p.z. ’s case to inform him that “according to the available information, the real estate property owned by [the first applicant] (four flats) and by [the second applicant] (one flat) had been purchased at the expense of their close relative p.z.” on 22 may 2007 the investigator asked the basmannyy district court in moscow to authorise attachment of the applicants’ property, including three flats owned by the first applicant, a flat owned by the second applicant, and a car owned by the third applicant. he referred to undisclosed sources allegedly confirming that all that property had been purchased by p.z. on 24 may 2007 the district court issued the requested writs of attachment. it observed that, “according to the information from the investigation”, p.z. had used the stolen money to purchase the property which he had registered in the name of his family members. it considered therefore necessary to attach the property which the district court described as being owned by p.z. they produced evidence showing that they had paid for the impugned property out of their pocket and that the link to p.z. was the investigator’s conjecture without basis in fact. they were not defendants in any criminal proceedings or respondents in any civil claim and there were no legal grounds for attaching their property. on 13 august 2007 the moscow city court rejected their appeals, stating that the district court had “carefully reviewed the materials enclosed with the investigator’s request and reached the justified conclusion that there were sufficient grounds for seizing” the listed property. the attachment of the applicants’ property has remained in place to date.
the applicant company, an editorial and publishing house registered in moscow, edits and publishes a national newspaper with a circulation of 500,000, the novaya gazeta (“the newspaper”). most of the crew died within minutes of the explosions. on 4 january 2003 his complaint was dismissed. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal. between 2000 and 2005 the applicant company published in the newspaper a number of articles written by the second applicant covering the kursk catastrophe and the investigation into it. the note had been discovered in october 2000. according to the first article, the note refuted the official version that all crew members had died as a result of the explosions. his complaints had been rejected by the moscow garrison military court and the moscow circuit military court. in particular, the first article read as follows:“r.k., перспективы европейского суда по ‘делу “курска”‘ взволновали прокуратуру. the second article described state officials’ reaction to r.k. there was no other prospect of success for the kursk case in russia, owing to the position adopted by v.u., apparently, those two officials took a decision to help the officers in command of the northern fleet escape criminal responsibility and to terminate the investigation. ( after the publication of the two articles, v.k., the chief military prosecutor of russia, and the chief military prosecutor’s office of russia as a legal entity lodged civil actions for defamation against the applicants with the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the abuse of public office ... was perpetrated not only by investigators of the chief military prosecutor’s office, but also by experts ...”“there was no other prospect of success for the kursk case in russia, owing to the position adopted by v.u., before the european court ... does not contain statements alleging that the claimants committed an abuse of public office. ’s] statements cannot serve as grounds to absolve a mass media outlet and a journalist of responsibility, in view of the following. therefore, expression by a journalist of his opinion on any topic, or the publication of an opinion by another person does not give grounds to absolve [the journalist] of responsibility where damage has been unlawfully inflicted on the values protected by the constitution and the civil code of russia, [such as] honour, dignity and the business reputation of an individual.” the applicants appealed, arguing in particular that the information contained in the impugned articles amounted to value judgments, and that the articles had reflected the opinions of r.k.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. 1 (58) of pravo-zashchita for march 2004. but for this, the people of russia should get rid of those for whom peace represents the loss of power or perhaps even a trial. this address was made on the eve of the presidential elections in russia. the second article, which had the headline “address by maskhadov, president of the chechen republic ichkeria, to the european parliament” («обращение президента чеченской республики ичкерия масхадова к европарламенту» – “the second article”), was published by the applicant in issue no. the last tsarist deportation was the expulsion of many chechen families to cold and faraway siberia in 1913. what is the aim of this historical overview? there is no doubt that the kremlin is today the centre of international terrorism, and [the kremlin] selected chechnya and the chechens as targets for testing terrorist methods which are being developed by the [federal security service]. owing to the wide publicity given to the latest events concerning the khanbiyev family, you have become witnesses to one of the numerous terrorist methods used by the state party of russia, notably taking hostages from the civilian population. he added that he had intended to convey to the readers the position of the leaders of one of the parties to the military conflict in the chechen republic as he had considered that, in the light of the continuing tragedy in the northern caucasus and terrorist threat, citizens should be entitled to have an idea of that position first hand rather than having the situation presented to them by russia’s mass media, which only reflected the point of view of the authorities of russia. in a witness interview on 25 april 2005 the applicant stated, inter alia, that he had published the two articles as he had considered the material to be of great public significance and had intended to apprise readers in the nizhniy novgorod region of them. during subsequent interviews the applicant consistently maintained his position. by a decision of 5 may 2005 the investigator in charge suspended the proceedings as those responsible remained unidentified. he confirmed that he supported the ideas expressed in the articles. a number of witnesses examined at the trial gave positive references about the applicant, stating that he was a man of good character and spoke out in favour of a peaceful resolution of the conflict in the chechen republic. it appears from the recording that, in reply to the applicant’s questions, ms t. refused to give definitions of the notions of “race”, “ethnic origin” and “social group”, stating that it fell outside of her field of expertise. the trial court found it necessary to exclude from the charges against the applicant reference to “the statements aimed at advocating the exceptionality and supremacy of the chechens on the grounds of their ethnicity” “in the absence of such wording in the provisions of article 282 of the russian criminal code”. on 9 february 2006 the applicant applied to the district court to have the trial record amended. on 17 february 2006 the applicant filed supplementary appeal pleadings, reiterating his complaints concerning the shortcomings in the trial record with respect to ms t.’s testimony and requesting that the appellate court examine the audio recording made during the trial of ms t.’s statements and establish the discrepancy between them and those reflected in the trial record. in february and march 2006 the applicant unsuccessfully attempted to have disciplinary and criminal proceedings instituted against judge b. for alleged falsifying the trial record, exceeding his powers and obstructing justice.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lived in st petersburg until her arrest. on 6 february 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking. she remained in detention throughout the ensuing investigation and trial. on 28 march 2013 the krasnogvardeiyskiy district court of st petersburg found her guilty and sentenced her to one year in prison. at the time of her arrest the applicant suffered from hiv and chronic hepatitis c. 11. she underwent a routine medical examination by a general practitioner on admission to her remand prison. she had the necessary treatment for hiv and other illnesses in the correctional colony. she was examined by various doctors, including a gynaecologist. a gynaecologist tested her for sexually transmitted diseases and prescribed treatment with hormones and painkillers. the applicant had a histological examination two days later, which confirmed cervical cancer. on 22 september 2015 the custodial authorities asked a gynaecological cancer specialist to examine the applicant. the doctor noted that her cancer had progressed to such an advanced stage that it could not be cured by surgery. in november 2015 the head of the prison hospital applied for the applicant’s early release on medical grounds. the drugs accessible in detention were unable to relieve the pain. a representative of the detention authorities left the issue to the court’s discretion, only making positive comments about the applicant’s work while in detention and about her character. the court dismissed the application, finding that the treatment she would receive in the prison hospital was similar to what she would get in a civilian one. it noted that if such drugs were not available in prison medical institutions, the applicant should be transferred to a civilian hospital. the applicant’s condition deteriorated rapidly. she complained of constant pain and asked to consult a psychiatrist. on 16 march 2016 the prison psychiatrist prescribed her sedatives.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in bor. the applicant was employed by the bank called borska banka ad, (“the debtor”). it would appear that at the relevant time the debtor was predominantly comprised of socially-owned capital. on 13 february 2004 the zaječar commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 8 february 2005, upon a submission to that effect, the zaječar commercial court recognised the applicant’s claims concerning salary arrears. on an unspecified date the applicant was paid 8,533 serbian dinars (rsd) on account of the debt in question. the remainder of the debt has not been paid until the present day. the insolvency proceedings are still pending. on 14 december 2006 the applicant applied to the zaječar commercial court for enforcement of the court’s decision of 8 february 2005, by which the applicant’s claims were recognised. the zaječar commercial court, however, declined its jurisdiction ratione materiae and transferred the case file to the bor municipal court. on 7 may 2007 the bor municipal court dismissed the applicant’s enforcement request. in its reasoning, the court stated that the commercial court’s decision of 8 february 2005 was not suitable for execution. on 23 november 2007 the zaječar district court upheld the first instance court’s decision, stating that the debtor had been subject to the pending insolvency proceedings. on 18 march 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the zaječar district court’s decision. on 4 november 2010 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal. it found that the applicant had failed to properly seize the constitutional court, having lodged her appeal against “the wrong” decision.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in bucharest. he submitted that he was married and had a child who was only a few months old, born on 19 may 2011, whom he wanted to look after, and that his family were experiencing financial and social difficulties on account of his detention. in a judgment of 27 march 2012, the bucharest court of first instance dismissed his first application on the grounds that a stay of execution of sentence provided for by article 453 § 1 b) of the ccp for convicted mothers up to their child’s first birthday had to be interpreted strictly and that the applicant could not seek application of that provision by analogy. on appeal by the applicant, the bucharest county court upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in a judgment of 7 may 2012. cm, which had two rows of bars across it and therefore did not let natural light in. he added that the toilets were dirty and separated from the rest of the cell only by a curtain. lastly, he stated that running water was available only two hours per day. with regard to bucharest‑rahova prison, the applicant said that he had been detained in cell no. m and had only one window, measuring 1 x 1.20 sq. m, with bars and a grille and thus no natural light. with regard to mărgineni prison, he stated that he had been detained there with twenty-four other detainees in a 2 x 6. m. cell and that there had been no running water. he also complained of the presence of cockroaches, rats and bed bugs. the government stated that in the bucharest police detention facility the applicant had been held in a 10.68 sq. m cell containing four bunk beds, a television, natural light and toilets measuring 2.5 sq. they specified that it was equipped with toilets, a kitchenette, ventilation and natural light. m in size and containing space for six detainees. they contained individual beds, a table allowing the inmates to eat their meals together, three bedside tables, a small bench, a television socket and a shoe cupboard. m, but did not specify whether these were included in the cell area. they stated, lastly, that the cells and the laundry provided to inmates were in good condition.
the applicant was born in 2001 and lives in bucharest. separated in april 2004 and divorced in september 2004, mainly because of d.d. since then, the case has been monitored by the authority. on 7 october 2008 the child protection authority certified that since 2004 it had included the applicant in a psychological counselling programme. on 5 march, 16 april, 7 may and 30 june 2004 c.i. the police heard evidence from witnesses on behalf of the applicant and obtained information about the applicant’s situation from the centre where he and his mother had been relocated. on 27 december 2007 the prosecutor indicted d.d. on 14 december 2009 the county court held a private hearing and interviewed the applicant. used to hit him, lock him in a small room without lights, throw water on him while he was sleeping and call him names. would be punished for what he had done to him. in a decision rendered on 22 december 2009 the county court convicted d.d. upon an appeal on points of law lodged by d.d., based on the evidence before it, notably the expert evaluations, psychologist’s testimony, witness statements, as well as the parents’ and the applicant’s statements, the county court considered it established that d.d. it stated:“the county court notes that the acts perpetrated by [d.d.] cannot be considered as isolated and random acts of physical punishment which parents can administer to their minor children, but became more severe and caused childhood attachment troubles.” was convicted of ill-treatment inflicted on a minor. relying on article 17 of the ccp (see paragraph 24 below), the applicant and the prosecutor complained notably about the fact that the county court had not awarded damages. the additional penalty of restricting d.d. ’s right to be elected and his parental rights was maintained. the court of appeal rendered its final decision on 1 november 2012 and rectified the text of the operative part on 22 november 2012.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in minneapolis, minnesota, usa. on 28 august 2009 their son, m., was born there. on 10 may 2010 s. obtained permanent resident status in the usa. on 13 july 2011 the applicant returned alone to the usa. in july 2012 the applicant spent a holiday in ukraine with s. and m. 14. the applicant submitted that he had expected s. and m. to return from ukraine to the usa on 16 august 2011; however, s. changed her plans and decided to stay on with m. in ukraine after that date. during the hearings the applicant stated that he was prepared to cover travel expenses for both the child and the mother if the latter were to be ordered to accompany the child to the usa. s. objected and submitted that it was the applicant who had asked her to stay in ukraine with the child beyond 16 august 2011. no exceptions under the hague convention applied. in the operative part of the decision, the court ordered that m. should be returned to the usa ‒ to the father’s home address in minneapolis ‒ specifying that the child should be accompanied on the journey by both parents. in that regard the court of appeal stated that m. was completely settled in his new environment, as he had been living in ukraine since june 2011. m. had always lived with the mother and there were close ties between them. on the same date s.’s lawyer contacted the usa embassy in kyiv and enquired about applying for a usa visa in the specific circumstances. in february 2014 s. submitted a request to the supreme court for review of the case on the grounds that the hague convention had been applied divergently in the cassation proceedings, resulting in inconsistent judicial practice. on 18 june 2014 the supreme court considered s.’s request for review of the cassation court’s decision of 20 november 2013 (see paragraph 25 above) on the grounds of divergent application of the law by the cassation courts. having examined the domestic judicial practice, the supreme court found that articles 3, 12 and 13 of the hague convention (see paragraph 37 below) had been applied divergently. it set out the principles which had to be followed when interpreting and applying those provisions. the case was remitted to the court of appeal. as regards the period commencing on 20 june 2012, the court of appeal considered that the applicant had continued to consent to the child’s retention in ukraine as there was no express objection on that point before the request was made under the hague convention. moreover, in july 2012, the applicant had spent a holiday with s. and m. in ukraine and in august 2012, after his return to the usa, he had sent m.’s vaccination certificate in order to facilitate m.’s admission to a child-care centre in ukraine.
the first applicant was born in 1944 and lives in oliveira de azeméis. the second applicant was born in 1970 and lives in vila real. the first applicant was born out of wedlock. to be his father and from an early age he has been in touch with t.s. ’s family, who have always treated him as a relative. on 26 march 2012 the first applicant instituted an action for recognition of paternity before the vale de cambra court. challenged the judge’s decision of 26 june 2012 ‒ in the part in which it considered article 1817 § 1 to be incompatible with constitutional provisions ‒ before the porto court of appeal. in the light of that result the vale de cambra court asked the parties about the usefulness of continuing the proceedings. did not acknowledge paternity and requested the vale de cambra court to continue the proceedings. on 9 april 2013 the porto court of appeal dismissed t.s. appealed to the supreme court of justice. appealed to the constitutional court, to which he submitted the question of the constitutionality of article 1817 § 1 of the civil code, pursuant to article 70 § 1 (a) of the law of the constitutional court. on 7 may 2014 the conference of the constitutional court upheld the previous decision of the constitutional court and dismissed the applicant’s claim. his mother always considered a.m. to be his father. on 31 march 2014 he brought paternity proceedings before the vila real court and contended that he had always known that a.m. was his father. a.m. objected, arguing that the claim was time-barred. he argued that the time-limit established under article 1817 § 1 of the civil code for the institution of paternity proceedings was not compatible with the constitution and that the right to one’s identity should prevail over the rights of the alleged parent. 401/2011, the provision was constitutional and ordered that the judgment of the supreme court be modified accordingly. the second applicant appealed to the conference of the constitutional court. on 28 october 2014 the conference upheld the previous decision.
in a dispute between the applicant and the domestic pension authorities, on 18 february 2011 the kryviy rih dovgyntsivskyy district court ruled in his favour, ordering an increase of his pension based on the rise in the average wages in the country since his retirement. on 3 november 2011 the first-instance court amended the judgment at the applicant’s request, indicating that it was enforceable immediately. in doing so, the court referred to the provision of the code of administrative justice governing abridged procedure (see paragraph 11 below). the defendant pension authority appealed to the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). on 23 november 2011 the first-instance court informed the applicant that an appeal had been lodged in his case. on 29 february 2012 he wrote to the court of appeal, requesting to be informed about the date of the hearing of his case. according to him, he received no response and no further information about the proceedings until 22 february 2013 when he received the court of appeal’s final decision, dated 26 june 2012, quashing the first-instance court’s judgment. it can be seen from the material before the court that the applicant’s domestic case file contains copies of the ruling of the court of appeal’s judge (date illegible) opening appeal proceedings in his case and a notification letter dated february 2012 from the court clerk informing him of the upcoming examination of his case in camera on 26 june 2012 and stating that the judge’s ruling and a copy of the appeal were enclosed with the letter. the government alleged that the above documents had been sent to the applicant, while the applicant alleged that they had not. the file does not contain any postal documents or registers of sent correspondence showing that the above documents had been sent or delivered to the applicant. on 26 june 2012 the court of appeal, in a final decision not amenable to appeal, quashed the first-instance court’s judgment, dismissing the applicant’s claim for a pension increase and holding that the domestic law did not require the pensions to be increased in case of rise in the average wages in the country following retirement.
the applicants lived in a dormitory in lipetsk, russia. the dormitory was mainly inhabited by the students and the staff of the lipetsk metallurgy college (“the college”). in 2000 the joint-stock company “nlmk” (“the company”) registered its title over that dormitory as a result of privatisation. the applicants brought a case against the company seeking to obtain a title to the rooms they lived in. they argued in particular that the privatisation of the dormitory had taken place in violation of the legislation and that the company could not be declared as a sole owner of the property. the lipetsk metallurgy college was also involved into the case as a third party. on 19 april 2010 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk found for the applicants and granted their claims. the district court found that the dormitory was transferred to the company in breach of domestic law. on 2 june 2010 the appeal court upheld the judgment and it became final. in august 2010 the applicants registered their title to the dormitory rooms and subsequently sold them to third parties. on 12 april 2011 the company lodged a request with the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk seeking to reopen the proceedings on the grounds of newly discovered circumstances. it relied on the order of the college’s director and a lease agreement concluded in 2008 between the company and the college in respect of the dormitory. the company further argued that it had not been aware of those documents since they were possessed by the college. on 12 may 2011 the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk quashed the judgment of 19 april 2010. the court found in particular that the documents presented by the company might have had significant impact on the outcome of the case and thus they constituted “newly discovered circumstances”. on 31 august 2011 as a result of the fresh consideration of the case the oktyabrskiy district court of lipetsk rejected the applicants’ claims and ordered reversal of execution of the judgment of 19 april 2010. this judgment was upheld on 26 october 2011 by the lipetsk regional court.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lived, prior to his arrest, in voronezh. on 10 october 2011 the police located the applicant. they kept him handcuffed during the night and did not provide him with food or water. the expert also noted a dot sized wound probably caused by a piercing object shortly before the forensic examination. the applicant submitted to the expert that he had no memory as to what had happened to him after he had been arrested by the police. he based his conclusions on the findings as follows:“on 11 october 2011 from 7:45 to 8:30 a.m. ... investigator f. questioned [the applicant] as a witness [in the murder case]. according to [the applicant], he did not remember where he had sustained the injuries documented by the expert. lawyer b. ... refused to comment ...according to former investigator f., ... on 10 october 2010 [the police] established the [applicant’s] whereabouts and he was taken to the police station for questioning. the latter demonstrated strange behaviour; he hit his head against the wall, rolled around on the floor, fell down trying to hurt himself. they did not use any physical force or put psychological pressure on [the applicant]. nor did the latter allege such treatment. on 10 october 2011 they located [the applicant] ... and invited him for a talk to the police station. [ according to them, [the applicant] behaved in a strange way and tried to cause himself injuries. according to the medical documentation obtained from municipal hospital no. he did not detect any injuries or diseases. the applicant] did not complain about his health or police officers. ... ...according to the statement of the emergency response doctor yer., the injuries] were self-inflicted by [the applicant]. it appears that he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 6 september 2012 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 28 june 2012 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in budapest. on 14 april 2010 the applicant notified the police that he planned to organise a demonstration from 2 to 7 p.m. on 17 april 2010 in front of the venyige street prison in budapest, in order to draw attention to the “situation of political prisoners”. venyige street is a broad cul-de-sac with a service lane. on 16 april 2010 the head of the budapest police department banned the demonstration on the grounds that traffic could not be diverted to alternative routes (section 8(1) of the assembly act). in the decision, he referred to article 21 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, article 11 of the convention and decision no. on 19 april 2010, within the statutory time-limit, the applicant sought a judicial review of the decision. on 22 april 2010 the budapest regional court dismissed the applicant’s case. it noted that in assessing whether or not traffic could be diverted to other routes, the authority had reckoned on the participation of some 200 demonstrators, as per the applicant’s notification, and that – after having obtained the opinion of a traffic expert – it had established that lawful parking and traffic circulation in the neighbourhood would become impossible should the event take place. the court agreed with the police’s decision in that although the right to assembly was a constitutional fundamental right, it was not absolute and must not give rise to a violation of the fundamental rights of others, and could therefore be restricted. the court was satisfied that the decision had been lawful as the police had adequately established the facts, complied with the procedural rules and applied clear assessment criteria, and the assessment of the evidence had been logical.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in donji kraljevec. on 15 october 2001 the applicant brought a civil action against a private person in the čakovec municipal court (općinski sud u čakovcu) seeking that a contract for lifelong maintenance (ugovor o doživotnom uzdržavanju) be declared null and void, that certain entries in the land register be altered, and that certain property be included in his deceased father’s estate. at the first hearing of the trial, the applicant indicated the value of the claim at 101,000 croatian kunas (hrk). on 4 february 2005 the čakovec municipal court declared the applicant’s action inadmissible. the applicant lodged an appeal against the first-instance decision. on 12 may 2005 the čakovec county court (županijski sud u čakovcu) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance decision. the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court. on 19 april 2006 the supreme court accepted the applicant’s appeal on points of law, examined it on the merits and quashed the decisions of the lower courts and ordered a fresh consideration of the case. on 17 february 2009, in the fresh proceedings, the first-instance court gave judgment in the applicant’s favour. lodged an appeal and on 10 june 2010 the čakovec county court reversed the first-instance judgment. the applicant then lodged an appeal on points of law. on 21 september 2011 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris because it fell below the threshold of 100,000 croatian kunas, given that the applicant’s civil action had included three separate claims lodged on different factual and legal bases – therefore, the amount of the claim had to be divided into three. the supreme court did not provide any reasoning as to why it had accepted as admissible the applicant’s previous appeal on points of law and decided on the merits. a constitutional complaint subsequently lodged by the applicant was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 12 january 2012.
the applicant company was a ukrainian joint-stock company registered in kyiv. at the relevant time it operated a commercial air carrier business (see east west alliance limited v. ukraine, no. on 12 march 2003 the applicant company brought a claim for damages, in particular loss of profit, against the state aviation safety department. the claim was based on a delay on the defendant’s part in issuing a safety certificate, which the department had been required to issue in 2001 by a court judgment. on 16 august 2005 the kyiv city commercial court allowed the claim in part. on 18 october 2005 the kyiv commercial court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s judgment and rejected the claim, mainly on the grounds that the applicant company had failed to prove the loss of profit it had claimed. it considered the estimates of the loss profit speculative. on 21 february 2006 the higher commercial court reversed the ruling of the court of appeal and upheld the judgment of the first instance court. the higher court held that because the defendant’s inaction prevented the applicant company from operating its business as from 2001, the first instance court was correct in accepting the information about the applicant company’s gross income for 1999 and 2000. the supreme court considered that no causal connection has been proven between the defendant’s culpable inaction and the alleged loss of profit. it held, in particular, that the applicant company had failed to prove that it had realised a profit, rather than gross income, prior to 2001, or that its income for the preceding years came from operations which required a safety certificate. they produced a unilateral declaration, in which they acknowledged a breach of article 6 § 1 of the convention and offered to pay the applicant company a sum to cover any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage together with any costs and expenses. the government requested that the court strike out the application in accordance with article 37 § 1 of the convention. on 7 november 2014 the applicant company objected to the striking out of its application, wishing to have its merits determined with a view to obtaining appropriate redress. it argued, in particular, that under domestic law the unilateral declaration, unlike a court’s judgment finding a violation, would not provide grounds for reexamination of its case by the supreme court. the government’s unilateral declaration would therefore not lead to actual restoration of the applicant company’s rights. the government were invited to comment and on 10 july 2015 informed the court of the relevant domestic legislation (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below). they submitted a letter from the supreme court informing the government agent there was no relevant domestic case‑law on the matter. accordingly, east/west requested that any just satisfaction award due to the applicant company be paid to east/west. asked to comment, the government responded on 18 january 2016 that they “do not object against the applicant’s request as to the payment to its sole shareholder the awarded compensation and, thus, leave this question on the court’s discretion”.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in warsaw. on 14 may 2010 the applicant was arrested in kyiv by officers of the security service of ukraine (“the sbu”) on suspicion of unlawfully importing equipment for the covert surveillance of telephone networks and using it to intercept private telephone conversations (see paragraph 24 below), an offence committed in collaboration with m., a russian national. he submitted that the applicant’s detention was necessary in order to prevent him from absconding and interfering with the investigation, given that the applicant was a foreign national, did not have a permanent place of residence in ukraine and was suspected of a serious offence. on 17 may 2010 the district court held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor and his lawyer, remanded the applicant in custody, and ordered that he be placed in an sbu detention facility. it held that the arguments submitted by the investigator were sufficiently strong to allow the conclusion that the applicant should be detained. on 26 july and 6 august 2010 the court of appeal held hearings to examine, respectively, the applicant lawyer’s and the applicant’s own appeals against the district court’s decision of 13 july 2010. only a prosecutor was present at the former hearing, whereas the latter hearing was attended by the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer. the court of appeal rejected both appeals and upheld the district court’s decision on both occasions. on 9 september 2010 the court of appeal held a hearing in the presence of the prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer, granted the investigative authority’s request, and extended the applicant’s detention until 14 november 2010. the court noted that the charges against the applicant were serious, that there were no reasons to release him and that the investigative authority needed more time to complete the investigation. on 1 november 2010 the investigator charged the applicant with several additional offences in connection with the same events: breaching the privacy of telephone communications and unlawful transfer of equipment subject to export control, committed in a group (see paragraph 24 below). on 12 november 2010 the court of appeal extended the applicant’s detention until 14 december 2010. on 14 december 2010 the applicant’s case was sent to the district court for trial. on 27 april 2011 the district court committed the applicant for trial, rejected the applicant’s request for release and ordered his continuing detention pending trial. it gave reasons similar to those given in its decision of 27 april 2011. on 19 march 2012 the district court convicted the applicant as charged, sentencing him to four years’ imprisonment. on 7 december 2012 the court of appeal quashed the conviction and remitted the case for additional investigation. it ordered the applicant’s continuing detention without giving reasons. on 15 january 2013 the district court set bail for the applicant. on 16 january 2013 the applicant was released on bail.
the applicant was born in 1993 and is detained in jēkabpils. the case was heard in may 2010 by the riga regional court (rīgas apgabaltiesa). while the applicant was performing the exercises he received blows to the back with a rubber truncheon. on 26 may 2010 the applicant’s mother visited him in riga central prison. the applicant had shown him his injuries. the applicant’s lawyer requested the prosecution service to institute criminal proceedings in respect of these events. on 2 june 2010 the prosecution service sent the complaint to the riga regional division of the state police. the applicant’s mother appealed against this decision. it was also necessary to find out whether between 20 and 25 may 2010 or earlier the applicant or his co-accused had been involved in any kind of conflict in the prison as a result of which they could have sustained the injuries. on 10 november 2010 the internal security office again refused to institute criminal proceedings, stating that the information gathered during the additional inquiry did not indicate that the officers had committed any offence under section 317(2) of the criminal law. it was also necessary to question further the escort officers. he had shown him marks left by the beatings. between 19 and 30 january 2012 the internal security office questioned the escort officers, who stated that they had not assaulted the applicant or his co-accused. the applicant’s co-accused, stated that on the second trial day the escort officers had made them perform push-ups and a “duck walk”. while they had been performing the exercises the escort officers had beaten them. they did not wish to be declared victims in the proceedings. on 6 august 2012 the applicant’s mother lodged an appeal with the prosecution service against the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings, the applicant having on 21 october 2011 granted her power of attorney (universālpilnvara) to take any action concerning his property. on 6 september 2012 a prosecutor dismissed her appeal, noting that during the presentation of photographs the applicant had been assisted by his lawyer. they had not made any remarks or requests as regards this procedure. he emphasised that no explanation had been given for the injuries that he had sustained while in custody or for the delay in the institution of the investigation and the superficial manner in which it had been conducted.
