the applicant is a journalist for dn.no, a norwegian internet-based version of the newspaper dagens næringsliv (“dn”), published by the company dn nye medier as. she was handed a signed statement from mr x in which he confirmed this. the applicant was willing to say that she had received the letter on which the article was based by fax on friday 24 august 2007, at 5.35 p.m. she also stated that the article had been published on dn.no at 3 a.m. on 25 august 2007. the prosecutor requested that the court impose on the applicant an order to testify. the prosecutor further justified the obligation of the witness to make a statement and argued that undoubtedly in this case it was desirable to hear her explanation, even if the prosecuting authority found the case adequately disclosed (fullgodt opplyst) without her statement. the press was sometimes abused by investors to take actions liable to affect the share price. however, the wording could not be given decisive weight. should the recipient of the information then refuse to give evidence, this would normally appear futile. the legal question at hand was whether a journalist might rely on source protection if the source, without the journalist having revealed it, could be identified with more or less certainty by other evidence. the provision made no exception for cases where the identity could be established with more or less certainty in some other way. the protection of sources by journalists was, according to the european court’s case-law, “one of the basic conditions for press freedom” (goodwin, cited above, § 39). the fact that it was for the journalist to decide to what extent he or she would rely on such protection reflected that it was not the source who was protected. if the journalist was willing to reveal the source, the source could not prevent it. a situation where someone claimed to be the source ought to be considered in the same way as where the source consented to disclosure of his or her identity. in addition, journalists often had several sources. however, the prosecutor had not relied on that paragraph of the provision, and the source’s motive could not render the principle of source protection as such inapplicable. she answered certain questions but affirmed that she still would not reply to questions about her contacts with mr x. the court records contain the following passage:
“when heard as a witness [the applicant] stated that she had received attorney [y]’s letter by fax on 24 august 2007 at 5.35 p.m. she does not wish to answer questions about who she had received the letter from or on her possible contact with mr [x] during the period before or after this point in time. in 2011 the un human rights committee adopted general comment no. such situations should be limited to investigations of the most serious crimes or the protection of the life of other individuals. r (2000) 7 on the right of journalists not to disclose their sources of information, adopted by the committee of ministers of the council of europe on 8 march 2000.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in odesa. in march 2001 the owner of company y. changed. starting from april 2001, company y. no longer allowed access to its premises to company v. as a result, the applicant transformed his flat in a temporary office of company v. 9. in june 2001 company v. brought commercial proceedings against company y. seeking compliance with the lease contract. company y., in turn, lodged a counter-claim seeking invalidation of that contract. on 8 october 2001 the odesa prymorskyy district prosecutor’s office (“the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office”) issued a warrant for seizure of fifteen documents relevant for the investigation, such as the original of the lease contract itself, related correspondence and several statements of acceptance of the services indicated in the contract (see paragraph 7 above). it appears that the applicant was not present. eleven of the fifteen documents listed in the warrant were seized. the seizure report did not contain any information as to whether it had been handed to any person occupying the premises. the applicant did not specify in the domestic proceedings, or in the present proceedings, how the seizure of the documents had taken place. on 15 october 2001 the seizure warrant of 8 october 2001 was served on the applicant. on 22 october 2001 the investigator decided that a forensic expert examination of the signatures on the contract of 12 january 1999 was required in order to establish their real date. that decision was not amenable to appeal. on the following day the search took place in the applicant’s flat in his presence and resulted in a seizure of eleven documents. it appears that the seizure was carried out on the same day in the applicant’s flat. on 1 september 2002 the applicant resumed his duties in company v. 22. on 28 august 2002 the applicant brought proceedings against the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage allegedly caused by its unlawful actions. the case file does not contain a copy of that decision. on 11 september 2003 the odesa regional court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal. as regards his complaint about the court’s failure to assess all the circumstances of the case, the appellate court dismissed it as ungrounded.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in smědčice. on 9 november 2006 the applicant requested a building permit for temporary stables for horses. on 6 january 2011 the rokycany planning office (stavební úřad) dismissed his request and on 26 may 2011 the plzeň regional office (krajský úřad) upheld that decision. on 29 march 2013 the plzeň regional court (krajský soud) dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant against the decision of the plzeň regional office. on 31 july 2013 the supreme administrative court (nejvyšší správní soud) dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant. the decision was served on the applicant on 28 august 2013. on 29 october 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint (ústavní stížnost). on 31 march 2014 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) rejected the applicant’s appeal as being lodged out of time. it held that as the supreme administrative court’s decision had been served on him on 28 august 2013, the last day of the two-month time-limit for lodging a constitutional appeal was 28 october 2013. on 8 april 2014 the applicant wrote to the constitutional court urging it to set aside its decision. he argued that as 28 october 2013 had been a national holiday, domestic procedural rules provided that the last day for lodging his appeal had been the following day, namely 29 october 2013. by a letter of 11 april 2014 the registrar (generální sekretář) of the constitutional court acknowledged that the judge-rapporteur had undoubtedly overlooked the fact that the time-limit had been complied with. however, as the constitutional court did not have the power to set aside its own decision, he advised the applicant to lodge an application with the european court of human rights.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kyiv. at the time of the events he was the director of a private company. in august 2002 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant on suspicion of tax evasion and forgery in office. subsequently, the tax-evasion charge was dropped. on 7 december 2004 the kyiv dniprovskyy district court (“the dniprovskyy court”) found the applicant guilty of forgery in office. it held that he had entered knowingly false data in the company’s tax returns. more specifically, instead of applying a straight-line depreciation method in respect of the company’s intangible assets, the applicant calculated their depreciation costs as the difference between the company’s gross revenues and expenses. as a result, the documents showed the absence of any profit or loss in the company’s activity, whereas in the reality it had had losses. the applicant was sentenced to one year’s restriction of liberty (namely detention in a semi-open penal institution by the place of his residence) with a ban on holding administrative posts for one year. the sentence was suspended on probation for one year. the applicant was under an undertaking not to leave the town until the judgment became final. he submitted that the activity of the company had been subject to numerous tax inspections, which had not found any violations of the tax legislation. he therefore contended that he had not done anything criminal and that that fact had not received due attention of the first-instance court. furthermore, the applicant considered that the expert questioned in the trial did not have adequate qualification. lastly, he argued that the tax police investigator, who had also been questioned, was not impartial and that his statements should not have been relied on. accordingly, the applicant requested the appellate court to quash the first‑instance court’s judgment and to pronounce a new one, acquitting him for the lack of the constituent elements of a crime in his actions. in addition to the president of the court of appeal, the above letter was also addressed to the prosecutor, the applicant and his lawyer. according to the applicant, they were unaware of its existence. the issue of the applicant’s and his lawyer’s absence from the hearing was not mentioned in the appellate court’s ruling. on 23 january 2007 the supreme court, in written proceedings, upheld the decisions of the lower courts.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in staro oryahovo. they signalled for him to pull over, but instead of complying he sped away. he only stopped when his car reached a field and could not go further. according to the applicant, one of the officers kicked him in the left leg and then pushed him violently to the ground as he was trying to get out of his vehicle. the applicant fell on his back and then three officers continued to kick him. according to the police officers, the applicant had jumped out of his car after it had come to a halt and had started running through the field in an attempt to escape. the officers had run after him, the applicant had slipped and fallen and the police had caught up with him. according to written statements made during the criminal proceedings by several police officers present at the police station when the applicant was taken there, he told everyone present at the time that his clothes were muddy because he had tripped and fallen, which was also why he had a limp. on examination, a doctor noted a suspected broken left ankle and told the applicant to go to hospital. as well as repeating the account of the two arresting officers, he stated that he personally had seen the applicant at the station and that the applicant had told him that he had fallen while running and that his back was hurting. a different police officer was sent to the local medical centre. another officer visited the hospital the same day. the report indicated that in a conversation with the applicant conducted during that visit, the latter had told the officer that he could not remember the events in detail, but that he was certain that after the car chase two police officers had beaten and then handcuffed him before taking him to the police station. the two police officers involved in the car chase and the arrest also gave written statements on 11 march 2014. in addition to the description above (see paragraph 9), the officers stated that once the applicant had been handcuffed and put inside the police car, he had leaned on one of them and moaned. when asked if he had a problem and wished to be taken to a medical centre, he had refused and said, “it’s nothing”. at the police station the applicant had refused to be tested for alcohol or to sign the arrest report. a number of investigative steps were carried out. a forensic medical expert was appointed on 30 may 2014 to establish the nature of the injuries sustained by the applicant and the type of instrument used. the expert was given a list of specific questions that needed to be answered.
the applicant was born in 1983 and is currently in detention in rzeszów. on 15 december 2008 the lublin regional court granted the request. the court held that the commission’s decisions had been lawful and justified as the dangerous detainee regime had been imposed on the applicant in accordance with article 88a § 2, sub-paragraph 2(c) of the code of execution of criminal sentences. it also made reference to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, according to which the applicant had destroyed some objects in the penitentiary unit and had behaved in an aggressive and unpredictable manner. the dangerous detainee regime was further extended on 22 may 2013. it also referred to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, who relied on the fact that in february 2013 the applicant had been punished for destroying some objects in the penitentiary unit and that his behavior was still unpredictable. on 13 august and 13 november 2013 the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission again extended the period of the dangerous detainee regime imposed on the applicant. the applicant appealed, but the latter decision was upheld by the lublin regional court on 30 december 2013. the court found, among other things, that the applicant could not control his aggressive behaviour and was a threat and danger to order in the prison. he had also broken a support of his bed and used vulgar language. he had committed a further unspecified disciplinary offence on 21 june 2013. the applicant had to wear handcuffs whenever he was outside his cell, including for appearances in court. in chełm and potulice prisons the cells were equipped with a sanitary facility which was partially separated from the rest of the cell. he was also detained in cells in lublin where the sanitary facility was separated. according to the government, there was a boiler in the cell so the applicant could heat water. the applicant submitted that he had had the boiler for six months and that it had then been taken away. he was allowed to have a shower once a week. he lodged a complaint about this with the lublin regional inspectorate of the prison service. he had access to press publications and could use the library. the shackles consisted of handcuffs and fetters joined by chains.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in rīga. from the beginning of 1997 she also fulfilled the duties of a cashier and she was fully responsible for any shortfall in the material assets (materiālās vērtības) entrusted to her. internal and external audits were carried out and it was discovered that certain data in the company’s cash registers had been manipulated. the applicant testified that she had annulled three cash transactions and made three cash withdrawals in the amount of 1,228 latvian lati (lvl – approximately 1,747 euros (eur)). the applicant was not informed of this decision at that time. instead, she was issued a summons to talks (pārrunas) and she was interviewed on 16 january 1998. she had handed the cash over to the deputy head. her request to be represented by the lawyer was refused – she was told that her status was that of a witness and that witnesses were not entitled to legal assistance. in the following years the applicant was interviewed as a witness five more times: on 21 january and 14 december 1999, 13 february 2002, and 6 january and 11 november 2004. another audit had to be commissioned and more witnesses had to be questioned. on 26 may 2005 the charges were slightly amended in respect of the total amount of misappropriated funds. on another occasion (on 3 february 2005) she stated that she would continue giving testimony without the presence of a lawyer. some requests for further investigative measures were granted and some were refused. on 23 october 2006 the first hearing was held. she agreed that she had annulled three cash transactions and made three cash withdrawals in the amount of lvl 1,228 (approximately eur 1,747), but stated that she had done so at the request of the chief accountant and the deputy head of the company with a view to paying out salaries. the court did not rely on the applicant’s statements made during the pre-trial investigation. in setting the sentence the court took into account her state of health, the fact that she had partly compensated the company for the damage in question, and the fact that she had committed the crime nine years previously and that since then she had not committed any other crimes. the applicant lodged an appeal on 2 december 2006. on 17 august 2007 the criminal chamber of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas krimināllietu tiesu palāta) quashed the applicant’s conviction for lack of evidence in respect of five episodes of misappropriation of property. the applicant’s sentence was reduced to a two-year suspended prison sentence, with one year’s probation.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is currently detained in jēkabpils prison. on an unspecified date his disability was re-categorised as category 2 (medium level of disability). 303 (from 26 february to 30 october 2013). on 24 february 2016 the applicant was placed in the least restrictive “higher” regime. the number of his cellmates varied from two to fourteen. he had been neither able to communicate with other inmates, nor with the prison management due to his disability. he had been in social isolation and had not received any special assistance. according to the government, the applicant was held in three different cells, the conditions of which are detailed in the table below. period of detention
total number of inmates
overall surface area in sq. on 21 january 2010 the same psychiatrist had detected another sleep-related condition. on 1 april 2015, upon the request of the prisons administration (ieslodzījuma vietu pārvalde), the applicant’s state of health had been examined. it had been satisfactory, he had not had any complaints and he had gained weight while in prison. his complaints were examined by the prisons administration, save for three of them that were examined by the management of brasa prison. it fell within the competence of the management of brasa prison. according to the prisons administration and the relevant floor plans that cell had measured 19.86 sq. the temperature in the cell had been 18˚c. as concerns his transfer, reference was made to the decision by the prisons administration whereby a conclusion had been drawn that the administrative procedure law had not applied. he had completed secondary education but had not pursued his education further owing to being deaf and mute and needing a specialised learning programme. he had been working with an officer and a social worker for rehabilitation purposes. a conclusion was drawn that the applicant had participated in nearly all the rehabilitation activities provided in the prison taking into account his capabilities.
the applicants were born in 1971, 1953 and 1976 respectively and live in bergama, i̇zmir. on 16 august 1989 the public limited company e.m. eurogold madencilik (“the company”), subsequently renamed normandy madencilik a.ş., received an authorisation to begin prospecting for gold. subsequently, the company was authorised to use cyanide leaching in the gold extraction process by the ministry of energy and natural resources. on 19 october 1994 the ministry of the environment decided to issue an operating permit to the company for the ovacık gold mine. it held that those reports demonstrated the risk posed to the local ecosystem and to human health and safety by sodium cyanide use. it concluded that the operating permit in issue did not serve the public interest and that the safety measures which the company had undertaken to implement did not suffice to eliminate the risks involved in such an activity. on 1 april 1998 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of 15 october 1997. the administrative court decided to set aside the report, which, in its opinion, constituted an enforceable administrative decision giving rise to the issuing of permits. equally, it had been established that the risk connected with the accumulation of heavy elements or cyanide could persist for twenty to fifty years and was likely to infringe the right of the area’s inhabitants to a healthy environment. accordingly, it was appropriate to conclude that the decision at issue could lead to the circumvention of a final judicial decision and was incompatible with the principle of the rule of law. the company re-started mining operations on 13 april 2001. on 2 february 2005 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of 27 may 2004 and dismissed a rectification application by the ministry of health on 3 april 2006. on 23 june 2004 the supreme administrative court ordered a stay of execution of the cabinet decision in a case brought by twenty-four plaintiffs, including the second and third applicants. the supreme administrative court found that the prime minister’s decision had been unlawful as the environmental impact assessment report which had allowed for the operating of the gold mine had been previously annulled. on 18 august 2004 referring to the decision of 23 june 2004, the i̇zmir governor’s office ordered the closure of mine. on 7 october 2004 the supreme administrative court upheld the stay of execution of 23 june 2004. before the administrative courts, some of which are still ongoing. the gold mine was in operation until at least 2014.
yeniköy konut yapı kooperatifi, is a housing construction cooperative under turkish law operating in i̇zmir. in 1993, a third party cooperative bought a plot of land measuring 12,000 square metres and the title deed of the land was registered in its name. in 1995, construction works started on the land in question. in 2000, the forest administration initiated proceedings before the menderes civil court of first instance for the annulment of the title deed to the land, alleging that it was part of the public forest area. in the meantime, the third party cooperative had merged with the applicant cooperative and the land had been registered in the land registry in the name of the latter. on 26 december 2002 the menderes civil court of first instance ordered that 9,322 square metres of the land be registered in the name of the treasury as it was part of the public forest area. it also ordered that the buildings constructed on this part of the land be demolished. subsequently, the applicant brought a case before the menderes civil court of first instance and sought pecuniary damages from the treasury under article 1007 of the civil code which provided for the state’s responsibility for any damage resulting from the keeping of the land registry records. on 4 february 2005 the menderes civil court of first instance awarded 138,917,600,000 turkish liras (trl – approximately 81,716 euros (eur) at the time) to the applicant. on 7 february 2006 the fourth civil division of the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the menderes civil court of first instance on the ground that there was no illegal act or action on the part of the land registry officials that might have had a causal link with the applicant’s loss. on 6 july 2006 the applicant submitted a further petition to the menderes civil court of first instance and indicated that there was a decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation which was in contradiction with the decision of the fourth civil division. in this context, the applicant alleged that its case should be accepted according to that decision of the first civil division issued on 7 may 2002 and numbered e.2002/3549 k.2002/5807. on 20 october 2006 the menderes civil court of first instance followed the decision of the fourth civil division of the court of cassation and dismissed the applicant’s claim. reiterating its allegations and referring to the decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation of 7 may 2002, it repeated its compensation request. on 1 may 2007 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the fourth civil division of the court of cassation. in their decisions, neither the menderes civil court of first instance nor the fourth civil division of the court of cassation expressed any reason about why they had reached a different conclusion from the first civil division of the court of cassation.
the applicant, who was born in 1989, lives in istanbul. on 14 january 2009 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 17 january 2009 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention. on 24 june 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court. the trial commenced before the istanbul assize court and the first preparatory hearing was held on 4 november 2009. in the subsequent hearings held between 17 february 2010 and 3 november 2010, the applicant appeared before the court and the judges ordered his continued detention. the applicant filed an objection against the decision of 3 november 2010. on 29 november 2010 the 12th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing, and based on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 13 february 2013 the applicant was released from detention on remand. according to the latest information in the case-file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in turkey. the following day, on 23 august 2004, he was questioned by the gendarmerie, at which time he was reminded of his rights, including the right to benefit from legal assistance. he indicated that he did not wish to be assigned a lawyer and that he would make a statement without assistance. 4959), which had come into force on 6 august 2003. on 30 december 2004, at the first hearing, the applicant gave evidence in the presence of his lawyer and accepted the contents of his police statement. he further stated that his statement had not been read back to him by the police and asked the trial court not to take it into consideration in case it had any incriminatory remarks in respect of himself or third persons in so far as they concerned participation in armed activities. when asked about his statement before the public prosecutor, the applicant essentially confirmed it, whilst insisting that he had not given any statement concerning the attacks in tunceli, a city in the east of turkey, and adding that he had signed it without reading it. testified that he knew the applicant but that they had not carried out any armed attack together. further testified that he had no knowledge of the applicant’s position and activities within the illegal organisation. testified that he did not know the applicant. at a hearing on 25 november 2005 the trial court noted that d.t. according to the transcript of the hearing at the kırklareli assize court, d.t. was detained in kırklareli e-type prison at the time his statement was taken. ’s testimony in person would not contribute to its assessment since his statement given before another court had been considered sufficient for a conviction. on 10 may 2006 the malatya assize court found the applicant guilty pursuant to article 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the court took account of the variety of evidence and witness statements, including those of d.t., who gave evidence as a witness before the kırklareli assize court, acting on letters of request, stated that his pre-trial statements had been correct and that he had knowledge concerning [the applicant]’s actions [under the code name “zafer”] in ovacık province and at the guard post and that he had received that information from ... ‘serhildan’. and that they had not committed any attacks together. ...
although the accused [the applicant] denied any involvement in any armed activity throughout the proceedings, the statements of s.g., had sprung the trap and had placed the mines on 28 october 2003.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in manisa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 july 2009 the applicant was dismissed from the expert gendarmerie school due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 28 july 2009 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of the decision to dismiss him. on 6 january 2010 the supreme military administrative court rejected the applicant’s case, taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 5 may 2010 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicants were born in 1981 and 1966 respectively and live in ecemiş village near the town of lice, located with the administrative jurisdiction of the province of diyarbakır. the facts of the case as submitted by the parties, and as they appear from the documents submitted by them, may be summarised as follows. on 12 september 2008 murat tekdal returned to his village of ecemiş after having visited his uncle, the second applicant. the soldiers returned fire and a clash ensued which continued for a period of approximately five minutes. the footsteps disappeared some two kilometres away, next to a little brook in a valley. the lice prosecutor and a crime scene officer arrived at the scene at 10.45 a.m. on 13 september 2008 and searched murat tekdal’s pockets, where they found his identity card and a tube of glue. the body was then taken to the lice state hospital. a cursory examination of the barrel of the hunting rifle found next to the body did not reveal any smell of gunpowder. there were also no fingerprints on the rifle. he was fingerprinted and his jacket through which the bullet had gone was sent for forensic analysis. it was subsequently established by a police laboratory that there was gunpowder residue on the outside of his left hand. he also noted that bullets had skimmed both hands and the lower right side of the abdomen and caused superficial injuries. there was also a superficial injury on the front of the right axilla. a bullet measuring approximately 0.7 centimetres was found inside the body. samples taken from the body were sent for further forensic analyses. in their letter the applicants denied that their relative had been a member of the pkk, and informed the diyarbakır prosecutor that their relative had been living in the village of ecemiş for the previous seven years and that all his fellow villagers knew him. they asked the prosecutor to identify and prosecute those responsible for the killing of their relative. on 5 october 2009 the applicants lodged an objection against the prosecutor’s above-mentioned decision of 22 october 2008. the applicants’ objection was rejected by the malatya assize court on 9 april 2010. the assize court stated that there was no on-going investigation into the killing of murat tekdal and that there had not been a decision not to prosecute anyone in respect of his killing.
the applicants alleged principally that their twenty-one relatives (spouses, children, brothers and an uncle) had been killed by state servicemen on 5 february 2000 in the novye aldy settlement on the outskirts of grozny (see appendix for details). the first applicant had been granted victim status in the domestic criminal proceedings and had participated in those proceedings (see musayev and others, cited above, §§ 68, 81, 94). in addition, the first applicant, who had witnessed the deaths of his relatives and had himself been held at gunpoint, was found to be a victim of inhuman and degrading treatment in breach of article 3 of the convention. they also submitted that, prior to that date, they had had no reasons to doubt the effectiveness of the domestic investigation, even if no regular updates from the prosecutor’s office had been forthcoming. as the documents in the court’s possession indicate, in march 2005 thirty-one families of victims of the aldy events sent a letter to the court stating their intention to apply to the court. that letter included at least ten applicants in the present case. 30538/09); in december 2013 they questioned rashid gerikhanov (no. during questioning, the investigators informed the applicants about forensic expert reports on the bodies that had been carried out in 2000. 24693/09) complained to the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny regarding the decision of 24 november 2008 to adjourn the investigation and the prosecutor’s failure to conduct an efficient investigation into the murders. he was charged with aggravated murder and robbery. in february 2006 the zavodskoy district court in grozny ruled that s.b. in may 2013 the investigators sought to obtain additional information about s.b. dozens of servicemen were inspected, but no one with a snake-shaped tattoo was identified. in april 2010 the investigators sent a letter asking the prosecutor of the northern caucasus military circuit to identify and question the servicemen and commanders of the 245th motorised rifle regiment (see musayev and others, cited above, §§ 105-07). in may 2011 the investigator in charge informed the military prosecutor of the southern military circuit that the special operation on 5 february 2000 in the south of grozny had been under the command of colonel ye.k., others estimated the amount of pecuniary damage caused (see appendix). no one was granted victim status in relation to any property offence and no additional documents were requested from the residents. it does not appear that that decision was challenged. in june 2010 the investigators watched a video filmed in the novye aldy on 9 february 2000 (see musayev and others, cited above, § 25) and produced the video’s transcript for the file. it does not appear that the applicants were informed of any other developments, or that they sought further information from the investigating authorities.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in budapest. on 20 july 2015 a quarrel broke out between the applicant and his common-law wife, h.m. appeared at the applicant’s flat, handcuffed the applicant and took him to the orosháza police department, arriving there at about 5.10 p.m. 8. according to the applicant he had no injuries when he was put into the police car. while he was handcuffed and in the room for short-term arrestees, one of the three police officers present either kicked or pushed him from behind onto the floor. he hit his face and nose, which started to bleed. he had bruises on the bridge of his nose and around his two wrists, abrasions on his right thigh, scratches below his left knee, and his left tibia was broken. the central investigation office opened an investigation into ill-treatment committed in the course of official proceedings, assault causing actual bodily harm, and grievous bodily harm. in his testimony the applicant stated that he had been kicked from behind when taken into custody. at that time he had been handcuffed and had fallen onto his face on the floor, as a consequence of which his nose had started to bleed. he had asked for help, but only when the police officers realised that he was unable to stand unaided had he been taken to hospital. he did not identify himself, despite the officers’ order. he fell to the ground and his nose started bleeding. he therefore had to be handcuffed and laid on the floor. he was not injured during these measures and his handcuffs were removed when he calmed down at around 7 p.m. he refused to be examined by a doctor. the central investigation office also questioned e.sz. the two members of the medical staff of orosháza hospital who had been present during the applicant’s treatment could not recall the event in detail but remembered that the applicant had not complained about ill‑treatment by the police officers and, although limping, was able to walk unaided to the x-ray examination room. according to the investigation office, it could not be established which injuries occurred during the police measures and whether they were caused by ill-treatment or the applicant’s own behaviour. the applicant filed a complaint against the discontinuation order. he maintained that his colleagues and supervisors, as well as the members of his household could have confirmed that he had no leg injury before the incident if they were heard as witnesses or if specific questions were put to them in this regard.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. he was the owner and the editor-in-chief of a publishing house, aram basım ve yayıncılık, which published a periodical, vesta. entitled “on the kurdish intellectual” was published in vesta. on 29 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. according to the indictment, certain passages of the article depicted the pkk[1] as part of the kurdish intellectual movement and hence constituted propaganda of the organisation, known for employing violence and terror. 3713 as he had published the article in question in vesta. in its judgment, the istanbul assize court cited the following passages from the article:
“in kurdish history, there have been moments, in certain periods, during which kurdish literature and culture developed and shone. in those moments, sparks of thought appeared. however, objectively and without renouncing the past, the conditions of the birth of kurdish intellectualism are based on the 1970s. in earlier periods, there had only been individual and temporary developments not creating traditions. the political nature of the 20th century, the existence and rise of national liberation movements, the emergence of modern currents in kurdish politics and, most importantly, the creation of a mass movement, served as the basis for the birth of the kurdish intellectual. this process was manifested in the figure of the pkk. all political movements before the pkk were rebellious, devoid of political depth, tactical unity, stable path and permanence. the ideological and intellectual superficiality of these revolts and their fierce repression led to the loss of existing knowledge and to falling behind. from this point of view, through political and thoughtful analysis, while being free from the system and alienation, and bearing within it its own cultural identity based on the impoverished kurdish rustics, [the pkk] allowed the beginning of a permanent and stable political enlightenment process. ...
another characteristic of the pkk movement at the beginning was that it realised that [the previous] abstract and theoretical movements had not led to a solution but deepened the problem. yet, the progress of the movement was accompanied by the downfall of the level of quality.” it hence sentenced the applicant to ten months’ imprisonment and ordered him to pay a fine of 375 turkish liras (try). taking into account his good behaviour during the trial and his character, the court suspended the pronouncement of his conviction on condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması). on 22 october 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in podgorica. on 6 september 2003 the applicant lodged an application with the commission for restitution (komisija za restituciju nepokretnosti) in berane requesting restitution of the property expropriated from his father in 1969. following the adoption of a new restitution act (zakon o povraćaju oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenju), on 28 december 2005, the applicant submitted another application to the newly established commission for restitution and compensation in berane (komisija za povraćaj oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenja) requesting compensation. in 2008 all the commissions for restitution and compensation were consolidated into three regional commissions in bar, bijelo polje and podgorica. due to the location of the expropriated property, the applicant’s request was assigned to the commission with its seat in bijelo polje (hereinafter “the commission”). on 19 february 2009 the applicant sought opinion from an independent expert regarding the expropriated property. on 21 july 2009 the commission also requested an assessment report on the expropriated property. the report was submitted to the commission on 24 july 2009. due to commission’s inactivity, on 4 september 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal (žalba zbog ćutanja uprave) with the appeals commission (komisija za žalbe u postupku za povraćaj imovinskog prava ili obeštećenja). on 23 october 2009 and 5 december 2013 the applicant filed complaints with the ministry of finance and the administrative court, respectively, about the appeals commission’s inactivity. on 24 december 2013 the appeals commission ordered the commission to decide on the applicant’s request within a period of 30 days. on 13 october 2014 the commission ruled against the applicant. on 23 december 2014 the appeals commission upheld that decision on appeal. the applicant filed and action with the administrative court seeking redress. on 17 april 2015 the administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim as unfounded. this decision was served on the applicant on 23 april 2015. on 23 june 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on 24 july 2015 the constitutional court rejected his appeal for failure to make proper use of other available domestic remedies. according to the constitutional court, the applicant should first have made use of an additional request for the judicial review of his case (zahtjev za vanredno preispitivanje sudske odluke).
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in the village of bajorai in vilnius region. in accordance with requests they had lodged on 28 october 1991, 10 october 1991, 22 november 1991, 8 august 1991 and 9 december 1991 respectively. on 22 january 2001 the national authorities established that part of the land was unoccupied and could have been returned to the heirs. as a result, a plot of land of 0.18 hectares was returned to the state. the authorities asked the applicant to provide them with some documents necessary to proceed with the restoration of his property rights. accordingly, the applicant was asked to express his intentions regarding the form in which he wanted his ownership rights to the property to be restored. in may 2006 the vca asked the vcm to demarcate a plot of land, previously owned by the applicant’s father, for the applicant. the applicant was also informed that he was included in the list of persons waiting to have their property rights restored, and was 4,055th in line. the applicant lodged a claim with the vilnius regional administrative court and asked it to (i) annul the decisions of the authorities to restore property rights to his father’s land to third parties on the grounds that they were unlawful, (ii) award him 1,422,791 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 412,069 euros (eur)) in compensation in respect of pecuniary damage and (iii) oblige the authorities to restore his property rights to a specific plot of land. his property rights therefore had to be restored. the vca explained that the applicant had submitted the request to have his property rights restored in 2000, while the third parties had done so in 1991 (see paragraphs 6 and 7 above). the vca also stated that the applicant had not provided any evidence that the requirements of the domestic law had been breached in restoring property rights to third parties. it was also possible that he would be given a more valuable plot of land, therefore it was decided that he had not suffered pecuniary damage. on 15 march 2010 the supreme administrative court upheld the decision of the vilnius regional administrative court. the court also held that 29 october 2002 was the date when the specific location and borders of the land which the applicant asked to have returned in natura had been established. furthermore, it did not consider that the domestic authorities had acted unlawfully, which was a precondition for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage. in february 2012 the national land service informed the applicant that in order to accelerate the process of restoring property rights to citizens, the domestic law had been amended and it had become possible for him to receive monetary compensation for the land. he was also informed that if he wished to use that opportunity, he had until 1 june 2012 to provide the authorities with a written request (see paragraph 25 below). the applicant replied in may 2012 that he had not changed his mind and still wanted to receive the land in natura or, if that was not possible, a plot of land of equal value in vilnius. he was asked by letter to make a decision by 1 march 2015, but it appears that he did not respond.
the applicants, whose names, dates of birth and places of residence are shown in the appendix, were all individual small shareholders of demirbank, a private bank in turkey. on different dates they purchased different amounts of turkish and german share certificates in demirbank through the german stock market. in its decision the board held that the assets of demirbank were insufficient to cover its liabilities and that the continuation of its activities would threaten the security and stability of the financial system. accordingly, demirbank’s management and control, and the privileges of its shareholders except for dividends, were transferred to the fund. the fund also confiscated all properties belonging to demirbank. on 6 december 2000 the board of directors of the fund decided to take over the shares of demirbank in exchange for paying demirbank’s loss corresponding to its paid-up capital, namely 275,000,000 turkish liras (try). on 31 january 2001 all equities of demirbank were removed from its account at the istanbul stock exchange and were transferred to the account of the fund. on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund. the ankara administrative court found that it lacked jurisdiction, and transferred the case to the supreme administrative court. on 5 november 2004 the supreme administrative court set aside the board’s decision of 6 december 2000, holding that the takeover had been illegal. an appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the agency were rejected on 14 april 2005 and 15 december 2005 respectively. on 20 september 2001 the fund entered into an agreement with hsbc bank, and sold demirbank to the latter. accordingly, demirbank’s legal personality was extinguished and it was struck off the commercial register on 14 december 2001. an appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the fund were rejected and the decision became final on 24 february 2006. on different dates the applicants applied to the board and claimed compensation arguing that they had lost their shares in demirbank, as a result of its transfer to the fund. the board did not respond to the applicants’ claims within the statutory period. the administrative courts’ decisions were upheld by the supreme administrative court and thus became final. on different dates the applicants’ requests were rejected by the administrative courts and the administrative courts’ decisions were upheld by the supreme administrative court. the supreme administrative court held that the judgment regarding the annulment of the board’s decision of 6 december 2000 could be secured by the return of the supervisory and executive rights to demirbank’s shareholders, and did not require the restitution of the actual shares.
mr adyan (“the first applicant”) was born in 1991, while mr avetisyan, mr khachatryan and mr margaryan (“the second, third and fourth applicants”) were born in 1993. their conscience did not allow them to work directly or indirectly for the military system. the applicants added that they were willing to perform alternative service as long as it was not in any way connected with the military authorities and did not violate their religious beliefs. on an unspecified date his criminal case was sent to court. on 19 july 2011 the kotayk regional court found the second applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years and six months in prison. moreover, alternative service was punitive in nature as it lasted forty-two months and alternative servicemen were required to stay at their place of service around the clock. it must be noted that government decree no. as regards the fact that the military authorities carry out supervision of labour servicemen together with the heads of the relevant institutions, the court of appeal considers that this still does not change the nature of the service performed. ...
in the light of the above, the court of appeal, based on the concrete facts of the case, namely that [the first applicant] has categorically refused to be conscripted to perform alternative labour service, concludes that he has been found criminally liable and sentenced in a justified and fair manner for such actions, and this fact does not contradict ... the case-law of the european court regarding article 9 of the convention.” it does not involve the bearing, keeping, maintenance and use of arms, and is performed in both military and civilian institutions. the alternative labour serviceman may not be appointed to managerial posts or be involved in other activities during his service. social security cover for alternative servicemen and their family members
“1. it deprived those whose religious beliefs contradicted not only the bearing and use of arms but also any kind of service under military supervision, of an alternative to compulsory military service; and
(b)  the duration of the alternative service. on 2 may 2013 a number of amendments to the act were passed. on 1 august 2013 the decree was amended and made applicable only to alternative military servicemen. in his 2008 annual report, the human rights defender noted:
“the draftees who belong to the jehovah’s witnesses explain their refusal to sign up for alternative labour service by the fact that the service is managed and supervised by divisions of the ... ministry of defence. its duration shall, in comparison to that of military service, remain within reasonable limits”. ecri has further been informed that directors of institutions (which include hospitals) where conscientious objectors carry out their duty receive their instructions about the conditions and modalities of their service from the military. moreover, conscientious objectors are sent to military hospitals for medical treatment, they are largely confined to their place of service and required to wear military uniform. the draft law on amendments to the [alternative service act] was adopted by the government in april 2011.
the applications in the present case concern prolonged non‑enforcement of domestic final judicial decisions. 1093/02, 29 november 2005, kucherenko v. ukraine, no. as a result of an increasing number of applications concerning prolonged non-enforcement of domestic decisions in ukraine, the court decided to have recourse to the pilot judgment procedure and selected the case of yuriy nikolayevich ivanov v. ukraine (see paragraph 8 above) as representative of this problem. on 6 september 2011 the government’s second request for an extension of the time-limit was refused. 35660/13), where the applicants complained that the remedy introduced by the 2012 act was ineffective. that judgment concerned 116 applications. in 2013 the court communicated 2,750 ivanov-type applications to the ukrainian government and rendered judgments or decisions in 2,459 ivanov‑type cases. as regards pecuniary damage, it also held that “the respondent state has an outstanding obligation to enforce the judgments which remain enforceable” (see, among other authorities, pysarskyy and others v. ukraine [committee], no. on 2 september 2014 the court adjourned its examination of ivanov-type cases for one year as a result of the sharp increase in the number of new applications lodged (in january 2014 approximately 6,000 such applications were pending and by september the number had increased to 8,200). following the chamber’s relinquishment of jurisdiction in favour of the grand chamber in the present applications (see paragraph 5 above), the government were informed that the court would not deliver further judgments in the ivanov-type cases pending the outcome of the proceedings before the grand chamber. on 24 june 2009 the ovruch court ruled partly in her favour. relying on article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. the applicant, who lives in zhytomyr, is a former chernobyl relief worker. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 1 july 2011. on 16 august 2010 the kryukivskyy district court of kremenchuk (the kryukivskyy court) ordered the kryukivskyy labour and social welfare department to recalculate the amount owed in respect of his participation in the chernobyl relief work and to pay the applicant a lump sum. on 28 february 2013, on the applicant’s complaint, the kryukivskyy court quashed the bailiffs’ decisions and ordered them to resume the enforcement proceedings 64. the judgment of 24 january 2008 remains unenforced. the same day the court issued a writ of execution. on 22 september 2008 the dnipropetrovsk court amended the procedure for enforcement of the judgment of 13 december 2007 and ordered the state enterprise to pay the applicant company compensation. on 9 july 2013 the same court declared the state enterprise insolvent and ordered its liquidation.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in benevento. an argument broke out between the applicant and the officers. the officers reported that they had smelt alcohol on her breath and that she had been unsteady on her feet. at 1.30 p.m. traffic police officers arrived on the scene with the breathalyser equipment. that had caused her to tremble and had meant she could not keep the breathalyser tube in her mouth. according to the applicant, once at the station the lieutenant on duty started drafting an offence report (verbale di contestazione) for driving under the influence of alcohol. she repeatedly requested that she be allowed to use a telephone to let her family and her lawyer know of her whereabouts but her requests were denied. when she tried to pick up a telephone, one of the officers hit her in order to make her sit down. he then squeezed her buttocks and asked her if the handcuffs were tight enough. according to the report of the officer on duty, the applicant complained that she had been assaulted by benevento municipal police officers and that her finger had been fractured. given her nervous and agitated state, the officer called the local questura (police headquarters) for backup. on 4 april 2013 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the two police officers who had stopped her in the street on 2 april 2013 and the other two officers who had been present at the municipal police station, but whose names she did not know, alleging assault and battery, infliction of bodily harm, abuse of office, and threats. two were people who stated they had seen one of the officers dragging the applicant out of her vehicle. one was the owner of a bar where the applicant had gone in order to call her former spouse once she had left the hospital on 2 april 2013. on 17 january 2014 the public prosecutor requested that the proceedings be discontinued. the applicant was also charged with causing bodily harm to a police officer. according to the medical report, the applicant arrived at the hospital in an agitated state, complaining about pain in several parts of her body. the doctor recommended surgery to treat the fracture. owing to a traumatic event in her life, the applicant suffers from chronic post-traumatic stress disorder, which has evolved into a major depressive disorder. she also suffers from a disorder which is characterised by mood swings which are exacerbated in times of particular stress, by the consumption of alcohol or sleep deprivation.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in batumi. he was a judge at the khulo district court. on 12 november 2004 the supreme council of justice initiated disciplinary proceedings against him on the grounds set out in section 2(2)-(a) act of 22 february 2000 on disciplinary proceedings against judges of ordinary courts (hereinafter, “the disciplinary proceedings act” – see paragraphs 16 and 17 below). he was accused in particular of having kept a defendant in a criminal case under his consideration in unlawful detention for the period of fourteen days in september 2004, which fact was qualified as a “manifest breach of the law” within the meaning of the above-mentioned provision of the disciplinary proceedings act. on 18 november 2004 a panel of the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the panel”), composed of mr k.k. ( the president of the panel and rapporteur), mr g.ch., according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant admitted to the act he had been accused of. after examining the circumstances of the case, the panel found the applicant guilty of the misconduct in question. describing the mistake at issue as unacceptable, the panel decided, despite his lack of prior disciplinary sanctions and his good professional reputation, to remove the applicant from judicial office. by a decision of 27 january 2005, the disciplinary council unanimously upheld the panel’s decision of 18 november 2004 in its entirety. the applicant appealed on points of law to the supreme court of georgia. on 4 august 2005 the disciplinary council, composed of six members, including three members, mr k.k. ( mr i.k, who had sat at the first hearing, re-considered the applicant’s case; another member of the disciplinary council who participated in the examination of the applicant’s case was ms n.k. during the oral hearing, the applicant challenged the above-mentioned three members of the bench – mr k.k., and mr i.k – on the ground that they had considered his case when it had come before the panel on 18 november 2004. after re-considering all the factual circumstances of the case, the disciplinary council found, in its decision of 4 august 2005, that the applicant had committed “a manifest breach of the law” and upheld the panel’s decision of 18 november 2004 in its entirety. he also complained about his request for their withdrawal being rejected. finally, the applicant criticised the haste with which the case had been considered by the disciplinary council. as for the rest, noting that the disciplinary proceedings act had instituted a system whereby members of the disciplinary panel could also sit on the disciplinary council, the supreme court concluded that the composition of the benches complained of by the applicant had been perfectly legal. moreover, in the court’s opinion, the fact that the persons concerned had previously participated in the examination of the case was not in itself sufficient to prove that the disciplinary council, in its ruling on 4 august 2005, had not been impartial.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kraljevo. between june 2003 and december 2004 the applicant, as an entrepreneur, was providing heating installation services to ad fabrika za proizvodnju konfekcije i trikotaže raška, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor company”). on 2 december 2010 the kraljevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company (st. on 15 march 2011 the commercial court rejected his claim and instructed him to initiate a regular civil suit and request determination of his claim. the applicant lodged a separate civil claim. on 1 december 2011 the commercial court ruled in favour of the applicant by recognizing his claim and ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant the costs of the civil proceedings. on an unspecified date thereafter, the said judgment having become final, was acknowledged within the insolvency proceedings. on 22 july 2013 the commercial court issued a decision ordering payment of approximately 10 % of the total debt to the applicant. the applicant received this payment on an unspecified date. the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 9 july 2014. on 16 december 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal complaining against the commercial court’s decision of 22 july 2013 and that his right to work and right to compensation for work and providing services were infringed, because he received only 10 % of the total debt. he asked further the constitutional court to order the payment of the rest of the debt. on 2 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power to order such a payment. that decision was delivered to the applicant after 24 april 2015.
he lived in the republic of dagestan and was the mayor of makhachkala between 1998 and 2013. in june 2013 the applicant was arrested and placed in custody pending criminal proceedings against him. according to the information from the government, in 2014 the applicant’s cell was re-equipped to take account of his needs as a wheelchair user. wheelchair ramps and a lift were installed in the detention facility. a room for personal-hygiene procedures needed by the applicant was located opposite his cell with all the necessary equipment. in 2015 he was examined by various doctors, such as a general practitioner, a neurologist, a surgeon, a urologist, and a proctologist. he underwent basic medical tests and received the treatment he had been prescribed. he noted progressive muscular dystrophy, the development of leg convulsions, and urinary problems. an immediate admission to a specialised hospital for long-term treatment and urological surgery was recommended. he noted that the applicant needed regular catheterisation and enemas. enemas were carried out in a separate room twice a week with the assistance of the medical unit staff. from 6 to 8 june 2016 a commission of officials from the russian ombudsman’s office, the orenburg ombudsman’s office, the orenburg prosecutor’s office, the federal service of the execution for sentences in orenburg region and medical unit no. the commission concluded that it was adequate. on 8 june 2016 the applicant was visited by an exercise-therapy specialist, who taught him exercises to support his health. however, the medical record does not disclose particular details of the recommendations made on those two previous occasions. m; it had a bath, a medical couch, a sink, and a bedside table with television set. it was designed for two persons and measured 12 sq. m, which satisfied the requirements of the execution of sentences act ... [the applicant’s] cellmate assisted him in his daily needs, which included hygienic procedures and moving around the cell. in the light of the above, on 2 june 2016 the prosecutor’s office for supervision of detention facilities in orenburg issued a formal order to the head of the correctional colony to rectify the identified shortcomings. the order has been ... complied with ...
there are no grounds for a further intervention by the prosecutor ...”
the applicant was born in 1975 in vladikavkaz, the republic of north ossetia‑alania. he is currently detained in correctional colony no. on 17 july 2014 the gudermes town court of the chechen republic convicted him as charged and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. during a medical check-up upon his admission to the remand prison, a doctor noted an area of pigmentation on the applicant’s face and ordered a biopsy. the test, performed on 27 february 2013 at the regional cancer hospital in grozny, revealed melanoma, a type of skin cancer. radiotherapy and surgery were prescribed. such treatment was considered advanced medical care, which could only be provided under a special programme in limited numbers. in october and november 2013 he was transferred to the regional cancer hospital in rostov (“the cancer hospital”). surgical removal of the melanoma was recommended. the applicant agreed to the treatment, but several days later withdrew his consent, saying that he had no confidence in the doctors practising in the chechen republic. on 22 september 2014 the applicant was admitted to the town hospital in groznyy for cancer surgery, but refused it the next day as he had no confidence in the doctors. on 6 april 2015 the head of the cancer hospital informed the detention authorities that the medical institution was unable to perform such complex surgery. on 27 october 2015 the applicant applied for early release from detention on medical grounds. 54 of 6 february 2004 setting out a list of illnesses warranting early release. under the decree, only patients with end-stage cancer could apply for early release on health grounds. on 25 january 2016 the court indicated to the russian government, under rule 39, that it was desirable in the interests of the proper conduct of the proceedings that the applicant be immediately examined by medical experts independent from the penal system with a view to determining: (i) whether he had been receiving adequate medical care; (ii) whether his current state of health was compatible with detention in the correctional colony; and (iii) whether his state of health called for urgent surgery and/or for a transfer to an appropriate civilian or prison hospital. the request was refused due to a lack of appropriate security measures at the institution. the following day he was discharged from the medical unit and returned to the correctional colony. on 6 october 2016 the applicant agreed to the treatment in a cancer hospital. the detention authorities started organising his transfer to a hospital in the krasnodar region.
the first applicant, mr stemplys, was born in 1963 and lives in marijampolė. the second applicant, mr debesys, was born in 1954 and lives in vilnius. the first applicant was detained in the pravieniškės correctional facility from 6 april 2005 to 28 august 2015. on 19 december 2012 he submitted a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells and that his health had deteriorated as a result. he claimed 250,000 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 72,400 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 26 february 2013 the kaunas regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s claim in part. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic standard of 3.1 sq. m. however, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms. it also dismissed as unproven the applicant’s claim that his health had deteriorated. the court further underlined that the applicant was detained in a dormitory-type facility, he was able to move around freely during the day, and various leisure and educational activities were available. he was awarded ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on an unspecified date the applicant submitted a new civil claim against the state concerning the conditions of his detention after 19 december 2012, claiming ltl 63,750 (approximately eur 18,500) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. m, and that during that period for fourteen days he had been placed in solitary confinement as a disciplinary measure, where he had had 3.47 sq. m. again, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms, and dismissed as unproven the applicant’s claims that his health had deteriorated. he was awarded ltl 400 (approximately eur 116) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. he claimed ltl 125,000 (approximately eur 36,200) in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage. it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years from the damage being caused, and thus dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 28 june 2009 as time‑barred. the court then found that from 28 june 2009 to 28 june 2012 (the day when the applicant had submitted his complaint) he had had around 2.55 sq. he was awarded ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. on 18 september 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance court’s judgment in its entirety.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. on 24 january 2011 a bomb attack at the domodedovo airport killed 37 people and injured more than 160. it was later established that the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber and organised by a militant group operating in the north caucasus. the applicant, who was present at the airport at the time of explosion, sustained multiple injuries to her body (wounds, contusions and fractures) which provoked further complications (cerebral oedema, coma, respiratory and cardiac insufficiency and a traumatic shock). the applicant’s injuries were life-threatening and caused serious harm to her health. within the framework of the criminal investigation into the bombing, the investigative authorities arrested four persons. on 11 november 2013 the moscow regional court found them guilty of multiple charges, including commission of an act of terror, organisation of a criminal gang and illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. three defendants received life sentence and the fourth one was sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. on 25 november 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 11 november 2013 in substance on appeal. according to the government, the applicant was granted a victim status. she did not bring a civil action for damages against the convicted persons. on 25 january 2011 the russian authorities opened criminal investigation on the charges of negligence against the airport managers and employees and the policemen deployed at the airport. on 22 march 2011 the applicant was granted a victim status in the proceedings. on 5 march 2012 the investigator decided to recall it. on 26 march 2012 the investigator discontinued the proceedings. on 22 may 2012 the deputy president of the investigative committee of the russian federation quashed the decision of 26 march 2012 and re-opened the case. on 3 june 2013 the basmannyy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 5 march 2012. on an unspecified date the applicant brought a civil claim against the airport seeking damages resulting from the failure of the airport security to prevent the bombing. on 27 august 2013 the presnenskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s claims for damages. on 16 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 27 august 2013 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in râbniţa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. 48787/99, §§ 28-185, echr 2004‑vii, and catan and others v. the republic of moldova and russia [gc], nos. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). he was charged with fraud and incitement to bribery. the applicant initially served his sentence in tiraspol prison no. that form of authority, together with the application form, reached the court on 19 november 2001. on 20 november 2001, a lawyer from lhr informed the moldovan prosecutor general’s office that the applicant and seven other people were being held in pruncul prison hospital on the basis that they had been convicted by “mrt” courts. he asked for their immediate release, in view of the fact that they had been convicted by unlawful courts. a similar letter was sent on the same day to the minister of justice. on 23 november 2001, lhr informed the media of the detainees’ transfer back to the “mrt” authorities on 21 november 2001. on 26 november 2001, the head of the penal institutions department of the ministry of justice informed lhr that the detainees mentioned in their request of 20 november 2001 were not being held at pruncul prison hospital. he never received a reply to that letter. on 22 january 2002, the applicant was released from prison on the basis of an amnesty act. the applicant described the conditions of his detention in the “mrt” in the following manner. he was allegedly detained in a cell with several people suffering from tuberculosis, and risked contracting that disease himself. during his detention in tiraspol prison no. he was also affected by parasitic insects. the applicant is a person with a category 3 disability, but he was not given any medication during his detention. food was served only once a day and was of very poor quality.
the applicant was employed by hk komgrap and komgrap-makiš doo, a company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). at the relevant time, the company was predominantly socially-owned (see stoković and others v. serbia, nos. since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicant brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions. on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicant certain sums in respect of salary arrears and the various social security contributions. this judgment became final and enforceable on 25 july 2005. on 26 september 2005 the applicant applied to the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) for enforcement of the judgment of 23 june 2003. on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicant the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings. on 27 october 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court ordered the acceleration of these proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of 800 euros (eur) converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement. the constitutional court held that since the enforcement proceedings in question had not yet been completed, the constitutional appeals were premature in so far as they concerned the pecuniary damage, and dismissed the appeal in that regard.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1983 respectively. the first applicant, aleksey navalnyy, is a political activist, opposition leader, anti-corruption campaigner and popular blogger. on 17 october 2006 russian post concluded a contract with the limited liability company multidisciplinary processing (ooo многопрофильная процессинговая компания – hereinafter “mpk”) and the telecommunications company rostelekom, whereby mpk undertook to print rostelekom’s telephone bills and deliver them through russian post to rostelekom’s customers. on 1 february 2007, under a separate contract, russian post leased electronic equipment from mpk. subsequently, ms b., a manager at yves rocher vostok, asked the second applicant for advice on handling the transfer of parcels from the distribution centre and he suggested that she use a private contractor, gpa. on 2 august 2008 the financial director of yves rocher vostok, mr k.m., on 10 august 2008 gpa subcontracted the freight forwarding services under that agreement to two specialist courier companies. gpa and its contractors provided those services to yves rocher vostok until the end of 2012. 46632/13 and 28671/14, § 15, 23 february 2016). on 25 april 2012 the investigative committee, at the direct order of mr bastrykin, instituted criminal proceedings in embezzlement case against the first applicant (see navalnyy and ofitserov, cited above, hereinafter “the kirovles case”). on 5 july 2012 mr bastrykin made a public statement expressing his determination to have the first applicant prosecuted. on 26 july 2012 the first applicant published an article about mr bastrykin, alleging in particular that his business activities and residence status were incompatible with the office he held (ibid., §§ lodged a complaint with the investigative committee, alleging that in 2008 unidentified persons had misled his company’s employees and had persuaded them to conclude a contract with gpa, thus depriving the company of a free choice of contractor. this preventive measure was maintained until 5 january 2015. on 15 december 2014 the court, at the request of the prosecutor, issued a warrant compelling mr b.l. at about 4 p.m. on 29 december 2014 the applicants and their defence counsel were summoned by telephone to appear in court at 9 a.m. on 30 december 2014 for delivery of the judgment, which had been brought forward from 15 january 2015 for unknown reasons. the first applicant appealed against the extension of his house arrest on 31 december 2014. on 19 january 2015 the moscow city prosecutor’s office appealed against the first-instance judgment on the grounds that the sentence given to both applicants had been too lenient. on 28 january 2015 the applicants challenged the accuracy of the verbatim records of the first-instance hearing. on 26 june 2015 the moscow city court refused leave to lodge a cassation appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. on 18 june 1998 the applicant started working for a company owned by i̇zmir city council (“the city council”). on 19 march 2007 he resigned from his job to perform his military service. following his discharge from the military on health grounds shortly after he was enlisted, on 20 april and 31 may 2007 the applicant requested his reinstatement in his previous job. however, his requests were rejected by the city council. on 28 june 2007 the applicant initiated proceedings before the i̇zmir labour court, seeking reinstatement. he relied on clause 19 of the collective bargaining agreement in force at the company (“the collective agreement”), which provided for the reinstatement of employees who had quit their jobs to perform their military service, provided that they applied within three months of their discharge from the armed forces. on 12 september 2007, in a decision rendered orally in the presence of the parties, the i̇zmir labour court found in favour of the applicant. the labour court held that the applicant’s discharge from the military shortly after he had been enlisted fell under the provision of the collective agreement, which called for the suspension of the employment contract when an employee was conscripted (silah altına alınma) for reasons other than compulsory military service, such as being recalled to the armed forces in times of war. therefore it held that the applicant was entitled to be reinstated in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement. the court informed the parties that they could appeal against this decision within the time-limits set out in the applicable procedure. on 18 september 2007 the city council appealed against the decision and reserved its right to submit additional observations once the reasoned judgment of the first-instance court had been served on it. that appeal was not communicated to the applicant. on 15 october 2007, the registry of the first-instance court forwarded the file to the court of cassation for appeal on points of law. on 23 october 2007 the city council submitted its additional observations. these observations were also not communicated to the applicant. on 21 july 2008, following an examination based on the case file and without holding a hearing, the court of cassation quashed the first‑instance court’s judgment and found in favour of the city council. it held that a rejection of the applicant’s request for reinstatement could not be regarded as the termination of the applicant’s employment contract; therefore, the applicant could not technically ask to be reinstated. no appeal was possible against this decision. this decision was served on the applicant on 22 september 2008.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in forráskút. at the time of lodging the application, he was detained at márianosztra prison. on 29 january 2014 the applicant was convicted of possession of narcotics and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. on appeal, on 14 october 2014 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment. the applicant began serving his sentence at szeged prison on 15 january 2015 and was transferred to márianosztra prison on 26 january 2015. he was released on parole on 8 september 2015. while the applicant was held at szeged prison, the per capita space available to him was about 3.2 sq. m; the gross ground surface of the cell was 16 sq. m for five occupants but included the in-cell sanitary facility. he was provided with basic standard meals and was able to take a shower twice a week. only between 26 and 29 january and 11 and 15 may 2015 he was held in a cell where a wall separated the toilet from the rest of the space. he could take a shower twice a week and pursue certain free-time activities. at his request, he was provided with vegetarian meals but very often consisting only of soya beans. the applicant submitted that he suffered from epilepsy and a personality disorder. as regards the medical care in prison, the government submitted that, during the first examination at szeged prison, the applicant had stated that he suffered from epilepsy without presenting any relevant documentation. the doctor referred him for a psychiatric examination, which took place on 22 january 2015; but the applicant refused the treatment prescribed by the specialist. during his first medical examination at márianosztra prison, the doctor noted that the applicant’s aptitude for work could be assessed only after external medical records concerning his illness had been obtained. the applicant suffered an epileptic seizure on 24 april 2015, whilst in his cell. following medication, his condition improved but he refused the neurological examination recommended by the doctor and any further treatment. he suffered further fits on 4 may and 8 july 2015, following which a neurologist prescribed him anti-epileptic drugs, but he agreed to take them only after suffering yet another seizure.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in smederevo. on 26 march 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the žabari municipal court against his employer, the ministry of interior, seeking payment of certain benefits. on 23 april 2012 the požarevac first instance court the žabari court unit ruled in favour of the applicant. on 4 october 2012 the belgrade appellate court revised the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim. the applicant received the said judgment on 5 november 2012. on 12 november 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in százhalombatta. the detention measure was extended on 8 may and again on 7 august 2009. the court reiterated its earlier reasons, adding that the risk of collusion was serious, since certain other suspects had not yet been apprehended. a further extension was ordered on 9 november 2009. the court stated that the applicant was being prosecuted for terrorist acts committed as an associate of an organised criminal group whose plans entailed a real risk of loss of life. it was of note that the group had existed for quite some time and had been committed to carrying out terrorist acts. moreover, the volume of evidence supporting a reasonable suspicion, as weighed individually against the applicant, was increasing. on 7 april 2010 the measure was renewed, with special reference to the fact that the case was concerned with a series of crimes committed over a long period of time by a criminal organisation. the applicant was released from detention the next day. during the ensuing period he complied with the rules of house arrest. the measure was extended on 4 august 2010. on 24 november 2010 the budapest court of appeal ordered the applicant’s house arrest, observing that the applicant had abided by the previous house arrest (see paragraph 10 above) and holding that the risk of re-offending was slight. on 20 september 2012 the applicant’s house arrest was replaced by a restraining order, which was eventually lifted on 6 july 2014. on 22 april 2015 the applicant was again detained on remand for the purposes of prosecution for a new offence allegedly committed during the on-going proceedings. for want of evidence, this new investigation was discontinued on 30 october 2015. on 18 december 2015 the applicant was released from detention and put under house arrest, which lasted until 27 july 2016. on 30 august 2016 the applicant and his accomplices were convicted. he was sentenced to 12 years in a strict-regime prison. both the defendants and the prosecution appealed. the outcome of the ensuing proceedings is unknown.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in budenovsk, the stavropol region of the russian federation. on an unspecified date the applicant sued his former employer military unit. on 3 may 2001 the military court of the pyatigorsk garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military unit to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for the time when the applicant had participated in a military operation. the military court obliged the head of the military unit to issue the relevant orders, to calculate and to pay the applicant some additional payments and field allowance for the periods specified in the judgment. the judgment contained information on the indexes and other parameters that should be applied for the awarded amounts to be calculated. on 14 may 2001 the judgment came into force. in march 2002 the applicant obtained the writ of execution and submitted it to the department of the federal treasury in budenovsk. on 19 march 2002 the department of the federal treasury returned the writ of execution to the applicant on the ground that the military unit did not have an account there, and the judgment contained no specific amounts awarded to the applicant. on 21 march 2002 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the bailiffs’ service. on the same day the enforcement proceedings were initiated. on 19 february 2003 the enforcement proceedings were terminated and the writ was returned to the applicant without enforcement following his request to withdraw the writ. in 2004-2005 the applicant applied to the domestic courts for clarification of the initial judgment with the view to establish the specific amounts due to him. the applicant’s requests were dismissed as being lodged out of time. the courts noted that, in any case, the matter concerning the awarded amounts should have been resolved by way of an additional decision rather than clarification of a final judgment, and informed that an application for an additional decision should have been lodged before the entry into force of the main judgment. it is not disputed between the parties that the judgment of 3 may 2001 remained unenforced in the part concerning the payment to the applicant of the second salary and the field allowances for the periods specified in the judgment. on 24 march 2016, after communication of the present case, the ministry of finance of russia calculated the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 3 may 2001. according to this calculation, the main debt amounted to 80,220.74 russian roubles.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in lisichansk-18, the lugansk region of ukraine. in 1972 the applicant suffered 100 per cent disability as a result of a traffic accident. in 1994 the lisichansk town court of the lugansk region of ukraine found the state health care institution of the sanitary and epidemiology monitoring of the ministry of railways of the russian federation (“the institution”) responsible for the accident and ordered it to pay to the applicant compensation and to reimburse his medical expenses. since that time, the applicant has been involved in several sets of proceedings concerning various types of allowances and compensation due to him. on 17 july 1995 by the lisichansk town court ordered the increase of the monthly payments due to the applicant in respect of compensation, allowances and medical expenses. it appears that the debtor institution complied with the judgment in part and in may 2000 discontinued payments due under the judgment. on 31 march 2006 the perm regional court of russia allowed the applicant’s request for compulsory execution of the above judgment in russia as from may 2000. the applicant sued the defendant institution for medical expenses, various types of allowances and compensation, as well as index-linking and arrears in the respective payments, and acquired several judgments by russian courts in his favour listed in appendixes i and ii. in course of the proceedings the defendant institution was replaced by the federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region and the komi-perm autonomous region” and subsequently by federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region”, its legal successors. he complained about non-enforcement to the ministry of finance, the prosecutor’s office and various other authorities, but to no avail. the judgments were enforced fully or in part on dates listed in appendixes i and ii. some of them have not been enforced, as shown in the tables below.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in toronto, canada. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). under the contract, n. undertook to send d. 15 tonnes of paprika and 5 tonnes of butter, while d. undertook to send n. 275 tonnes of diesel fuel as payment. subsequently, n. sent the paprika, but according to the applicant some of it was of poor quality and d. suffered financial losses as a result. consequently, d. refused to send the diesel fuel. on 22 december 1996 the applicant was summoned to the department for the fight against organised crime in crivoi rog, ukraine, and asked to give an explanation for his refusal to send the diesel fuel. on 24 january 1997 he was summoned again. he did not appeal against that judgment, which then became final. the cell was a concrete box with no windows or ventilation, and no natural light, toilet or tap water. according to the applicant, after his transfer to an ordinary cell and until his release, he was detained in cells with persons who were ill with tuberculosis. during his detention several detainees died from tuberculosis. he was given food once a day – some 250 grams of soup (containing no protein or vitamins), 100 grams of porridge of the same quality, and 250 grams of bread. the cell was infested with blood-sucking parasites. their bites caused him discomfort and itching, which in turn created wounds that bled after being scratched. the lack of medical treatment left him suffering and he was only able to cure himself by taking medication borrowed from another detainee. the lack of medication caused him to constantly fear that he might fall ill with no possibility of being treated. on an unknown date in 1997 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the moldovan prosecutor general’s office of the unlawful detention of his client ordered by the “mrt” authorities. it noted that the investigation was aimed at establishing whether the applicant had indeed been abducted, and if so by whom and precisely from where. in reply to a complaint concerning his client lodged on an unknown date with the russian president, on 25 september 2002 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the complaint had been forwarded to the moldovan supreme court of justice.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in vranje. on 30 january 2014 the leskovac commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company (st. the first applicant duly submitted his respective claim. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor company are still ongoing. on 28 may 2015 the constitutional court found a violation of the first applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time. the second applicant was born in 1956 and lives in niš. on 22 december 2005 the second applicant concluded the settlement with the debtor company before the niš municipal court, by which the debtor company was obliged to pay the second applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this settlement became final on an unspecified date. this judgment became final by 23 december 2008. on 28 december 2010, upon the second applicant’s request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant the enforcement costs. these decisions became final on unspecified dates. as a result, the ongoing enforcement proceedings against the debtor company were stayed. the second applicant duly submitted his respective claims. on 11 february 2013 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. it found that the second applicant failed to lodge his appeal within thirty days as of the date when the decisions on the staying of the enforcement proceedings as a result of opening of the insolvency proceedings had been delivered to him. that decision was delivered to the second applicant after 16 july 2015. he was employed by dp industrija filip kljajić, a socially-owned company based in kragujevac (hereinafter “the debtor company”). on 25 october 2010 the third applicant’s claim was formally recognised. on 28 december 2015 the constitutional court dismissed his appeal as lodged out of time. that decision was delivered to the third applicant on 29 january 2016.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in afidnes attikis. for breach of duty and extortion concerning acts he had allegedly committed as mayor of kifissia municipality. he made a further statement under oath related to his criminal complaint on 21 december 2001. at the time the complaint was lodged c.t. that request was rejected on 20 march 2002. on 21 october 2003 the criminal complaint was submitted to parliament. on 2 february 2004 the president of parliament rejected the request to lift c.t. on 18 march 2004 the applicant lodged an application with the european court of human rights, complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention that parliament’s refusal to lift c.t. ’s immunity had violated his right of access to a court. to date, the committee of ministers of the council of europe has not yet concluded the supervision of the execution of the judgment under article 46 § 2 of the convention. in the meantime, on 4 april 2004 the applicant appeared on a television show on the nationwide alter channel and reiterated the allegations made in his criminal complaint. following a preliminary examination, criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision. ’s parliamentary immunity and that criminal proceedings had not been initiated against him. for the offences of which he had been accused ...” 13. subsequently, the court of appeal proceeded to examine witnesses. the hearing continued in the presence of his lawyer. who joined the proceedings as a civil party, and one defence witness. on 5 may 2010 the court of cassation dismissed the appeal on points of law (decision no. as regards article 366 § 2 of the criminal code ... the suspension of criminal proceedings is obligatory, but also requires a prior criminal prosecution for the act that a defendant has alleged or disseminated information about ... in the present case ... the court dismissed the above requests, providing full and correct reasoning, in particular because the immunity of the person against whom the criminal complaint had been lodged, who is now a civil party and member of parliament, had not been lifted.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sofia, bulgaria, where he apparently moved from france in november 2013. he was taken to the first district police station and placed under police detention. according to the applicant, he was not put in a cell, but handcuffed to a bench in the station’s corridor. he was visited by an ex officio lawyer appointed for him by the authorities. in the late afternoon or the evening of 24 january 2014 the applicant was taken to a hospital for a medical examination, and then, at about 10 p.m. the same day, taken to a pre-trial detention facility in sofia. it appears that the next day, or one of the following days, the applicant was brought before the sofia district court with a view to a decision on whether he should be remanded in detention, and that it was decided that he should remain in custody pending trial. according to the applicant, upon his arrival in the pre-trial detention facility on the evening of 24 january 2014 (see paragraph 8 above), he was given a dirty mattress, pillow and blanket, but no bedlinen. as a result, it had been impossible for him to go to the shower for two weeks. he was given antibiotics for it but was not taken to a hospital. since it had to be shared among them, each inmate had about six minutes to use it. as the applicant had had no money on him when arrested, he could not however purchase a phonecard. the consulate also arranged for a lawyer to represent the applicant in the criminal case against him. with the money that he received via the consulate, the applicant was able to purchase a phonecard. the same day the facility’s head approved the list. the applicant was apparently able to call his mother in france for the first time two days later, on 26 february 2014. detainees in the facility could get two visits a month, each lasting up to twenty minutes. she was apparently able to visit him the next day. it appears that a bulgarian friend of the applicant who had also come to visit him on 22 march 2014 was likewise turned away. according to the government, during his stay in the detention facility the applicant had been visited by his lawyer on twelve occasions in february and march 2014, and by consular staff on two occasions. he had also received parcels with food and other items on twenty-one occasions.
the applicant was born in 1981 and is currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in nysa prison. on the former date the court heard evidence from the experts who had prepared the opinions. t., an expert who spoke on behalf of the team, stated in particular that the experts had excluded the possibility that the applicant was simulating a mental illness. it also noted that the applicant had undergone psychiatric treatment since 2000. on 12 december 2007 the psychiatric commission on security measures (komisja psychiatryczna ds. a hospital psychologist, in opinions of 23 june and 15 december 2008, 20 may and 5 november 2009, confirmed that the applicant should continue treatment in hospital. in particular, in the opinion of 9 november 2009 the doctors concluded that the applicant was suffering from a delusional disorder related to organic lesions in his central nervous system (zaburzenia omamowo-urojeniowe na podłożu organicznego uszkodzenia o.u.n.). there had been an improvement in his condition following the treatment, however there had been no complete recovery. one of the experts clarified that, in assessing the possible risk of the applicant committing criminal offences, she had relied on the initial diagnosis and his lifestyle (his multiple convictions and the fact that he was young and single with no children). she further agreed with the pruszków experts’ opinion (see paragraph 24 above) that the applicant suffered from a personality disorder. on 24 september 2012 the katowice regional court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released from hospital. it noted that his situation had not changed since the last decision had been given. even if he had not been insane at the time when the offences had been committed, there was still a risk that he would commit further offences in view of his dissocial personality disorder. on 22 november 2013 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal against that decision. on 25 november 2013 the applicant lodged his own appeal, submitting in particular that he had been simulating a mental illness. on 20 january 2014 the applicant was transferred to toszek psychiatric hospital. allegedly, the applicant, together with a certain a.i. as indicated in paragraph 24 above, the medical opinion given by experts from pruszków hospital on 17 june 2012 stated that the applicant had had full mental capacity in 2005. they were also convinced that, between june and august 2005, the applicant had been able to recognise the significance of his actions and control his behaviour. on 22 april 2015 the court heard evidence from psychiatrists from pruszków hospital who had prepared the opinion of 17 june 2012 (see paragraph 24 above).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in split. on 19 may 2011 the applicant and several other individuals (see, for further information, šoš v. croatia, no. 26211/13, § 17, 1 december 2015) were arrested on suspicion of drug trafficking and detained under article 123 § 1(2), (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of collusion, risk of reoffending, and seriousness of charges). the reasoning of the relevant decisions is outlined in the case of šoš (cited above, §§ 20 and 23). he found that all the relevant witnesses had been questioned and that there was no further possibility of remanding the suspects in detention on the grounds of the risk of collusion. as to the other grounds relied upon for the pre-trial detention, the investigating judge reiterated his previous findings. the investigating judge relied on the same reasons extending the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other suspects in the further course of the investigation. on 16 may 2012 the applicant and nine other individuals were indicted on charges of drug trafficking in the split county court. following the submission of the indictment, on 18 may 2012 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other accused relying on article 123 § 1 (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending and seriousness of charges). his pre-trial detention was extended several times on the same grounds. the reasoning of the relevant decisions is outlined in the šoš case (cited above, §§ 44, 47 and 52). it explained that the 2013 amendments to the criminal code provided that the offence at issue was punishable by a prison sentence of between three and fifteen years and no longer by long-term imprisonment. it was therefore not possible to remand the applicant on the grounds of the seriousness of the charges since the possibility of imposing a sentence of long-term imprisonment was one of the conditions for extending pre-trial detention under article 123 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure (seriousness of charges). on 17 may 2013 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the maximum two-year statutory time-limit for the applicant’s pre-trial detention under article 133 § 1 (4) of the code of criminal procedure for a further six months (until 19 november 2013) relying on section 35(2) of the office for the suppression of corruption and organised crime act (hereinafter “the oscoca”). the applicant appealed to the supreme court arguing that section 35(2) of the oscoca was inapplicable to his case since he was not detained during the investigation. on 7 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the said provision of the oscoca made a mistaken reference to article 130 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure. it also considered that the cited provision was incomprehensible since, if understood as provided in that act, it merely repeated paragraph 1 of section 35 of the oscoca, which would be obsolete. on 18 june 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) reiterating his previous arguments. on 11 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the supreme court. the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended, under article 123 § 1 (3) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending), until the maximum period expired on 19 november 2013, when he was released.
the applicant company was ordered to pay eur 10,000 in damages to a person referred to as a presumed member of the mafia on one page of a book published by it. the applicant company is a prominent german book-publishing house with its registered office in munich. both of whom had been dining there purely as a matter of chance, as [s.p.] has and the esteem in which he is held by the italian community, one forms the opinion that [s.p.] becoming a member of the romeo alias ‘staccu’ clan. ...
direct relatives of the clan live in germany and run pizza restaurants. their main bases are in the cities of duisburg, erfurt, and leipzig. had already been mentioned by name in the context of organised crime. on 13 november 2008, the munich regional court issued the injunction and confirmed it on 15 december 2008 after hearing both parties. lastly, the court continued, the book had been published unlawfully because the plaintiff had not been given any opportunity to make a statement regarding the suspicion prior to publication. the evidentiary facts researched by the author and published by the applicant company did not constitute sufficient proof of the exceptionally grave suspicion raised in the book. the court established that even the internal report by the federal office of criminal investigation only mentioned a number of vague suspicious circumstances, for the most part without providing any details or naming any specific sources. for example, it said that because of the high respect in which the plaintiff was held in the “italian milieu”, he must be a fully fledged member of the ‘ndrangheta. moreover, the court continued, certain statements in the book were incorrect, such as the region in which the plaintiff had been born. applied for damages in the amount of eur 20,000. on 22 june 2011, the munich regional court upheld the injunction, but dismissed the plaintiff’s application for damages. the regional court dismissed the plaintiff’s application for damages as being ill-founded. as far as the violation of the plaintiff’s personality right was concerned, the court of appeal endorsed the reasoning of the regional court. it had been grossly negligent on the part of the applicant company to disseminate an allegation based on a suspicion which seriously interfered with the plaintiff’s personality right in spite of the fact that the plaintiff had obviously not been given an opportunity to be heard and that the allegation had been disseminated without including the necessary information that the murder investigation addressed by the book subsequently had been discontinued. the applicant company could not argue that it had not acted culpably, as it had based its publication on information obtained from a governmental authority.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in sofia. the applicant is a former police officer. criminal proceedings were brought against him in 1996. by a decision of the competent prosecutor of 6 march 1996, as provided under domestic law at the time, the applicant was placed under house arrest. the period of arrest continued until 3 april 1996, when the applicant was remanded in custody. he was once again placed under house arrest on 1 july 1996 and was released on 30 september 1997. the applicant therefore was deprived of his liberty for one year, six months and twenty-five days. in a final judgment of 27 january 1998 the sofia military court found the applicant guilty of failing to perform his duties and he was given a one‑year suspended prison sentence. in another set of proceedings, in a final judgment of 26 march 2003 the supreme court of cassation convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to one year of imprisonment. the court also held in the second set of proceedings that the applicant should serve a single sentence for all his offences, which was set at one year in prison. on 1 july 2003 the applicant was once again detained and placed in prison to serve his sentence. he was released on 18 september 2003 by a decision of the competent prosecutor. the prosecutor noted that the period of pre-trial detention should have been deducted from the applicant’s sentence, which meant he had already served it. as he had worked in prison the applicant was also entitled to a reduction of his sentence by seventeen days. in accordance with the applicable provisions of domestic law, the city court ordered the applicant to pay bgn 2,040 (the equivalent of 1,040 euros – eur) in court fees, calculated as a pro rata percentage of the part of his claim that had been dismissed. the judgment was upheld on 18 june 2007 by the sofia court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”), which specified that the prosecution authorities were also liable to pay default interest on the above amount, calculated from 18 september 2003. in a final judgment of 24 april 2009 the supreme court of cassation reduced the award to bgn 3,000 (approximately eur 1,530), plus default interest. it justified the reduction by referring to the “nature of the offences” the applicant had been convicted for, the “regime under which the sentence had been served” and the “socially acceptable criteria for justice”. it did not deal with the matter of court fees and took no separate decision in that regard. the court has not been informed whether and when the amount above was paid to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in baku. he was the chairman of the azerbaijani national statehood party. in december 2010 the applicant sold his car to a certain e.r., who encountered a number of technical problems with it. contacted the applicant and they agreed to meet on the same day. expressed his dissatisfaction with the car and requested that the applicant return his money and take the car back. the applicant got angry, started to insult e.r. and then assaulted him together with a certain c. 8. a passer-by intervened and stopped the altercation. reported the incident to the police on the same day. on 8 january 2011 the police compiled a record of the applicant’s arrest as a suspect. on 12 january 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, stating that there was no justification for the application of the preventive measure of remand in custody and that the court had failed to substantiate the necessity for his detention pending trial. on 17 january 2011 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that there were no grounds to quash the first-instance decision. he submitted that more time was needed to complete the investigation. on 3 march 2011 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial by one month, until 8 april 2011. on 4 march 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that the first-instance court had failed to substantiate its decision on his continued detention. on 9 march 2011 the baku court of appeal upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 3 march 2011. no further extension decisions are available in the case file. on 17 june 2011 the nasimi district court found the applicant guilty on all counts and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. the applicant was released from serving the remainder of his sentence by a presidential pardon issued on 17 march 2016.
the applicants were born in 1954 and 1951 respectively and live in kumanovo. according to the decision, the total area of the confiscated land was 3,349 square metres (sq. through a proprio motu investigation it also established that the land in question had been part of a larger undeveloped, state-owned plot. the applicants then had their property rights registered in the relevant land registry. m) from a larger plot of land belonging to the state. on 7 october 2003 the solicitor general sought, in administrative proceedings, that the restitution order be declared, under section 267(1)(5) of the administrative procedure act (see paragraph 37 below), partially null and void in respect of the part of the land which had been returned to the applicants but allegedly had not been confiscated from their predecessor. under the terms of the relevant domestic law applicable at the time, this was the final decision. with regard to the differences in surface areas the judgment stated:
“the court, in deciding, assessed the arguments of the [solicitor general] put forward in the claim, but it did not accept them as bases to decide differently, because none of the conditions under [section] 267 of the administrative procedure act for declaring the order null and void had been fulfilled.” the restitution commission held that under the applicable law in 1948, a confiscation order (акт за експропријација) had had to precede a confiscation decision (решение за експропријација). m. the restitution commission also referred to evidence submitted on 23 august 2001 by the land registry office, according to which the area of the plot had been six shinik and had represented a part of a larger plot of land, the total surface area of which was 8,309 sq. m. a further extract from a “geodetic review of the association of land experts of macedonia” and “review of old units of land area and their conversion into hectares, areas and sq. m. lastly, the commission relied on a cadastral plan drawn up by a licenced surveyor (катастарска скица изработена од геометар) made for a separate set of restitution proceedings (instituted by the heirs of g.t.), on 3 and 4 august 2010 the solicitor general and the third persons respectively appealed against that judgment before the supreme court, which had in the meantime become competent to act upon appeals against judgments of the administrative court. the applicants submitted observations in reply. m, which had been preceded by an accurate determination of the object of expropriation. this decision was served on the applicants on 24 december 2010 and 25 january 2011 respectively. on 19 december 2012, in civil proceedings initiated by the second applicant against the land registry, the kumanovo court of first instance issued an injunction banning the respondent state from disposing of the plot of land. on 29 october 2013 the restitution commission accepted the applicants’ restitution claim and decided to restore to their possession a plot of land with an area of 2,460 sq. m which could not be restored, in total amounting to a total surface area of 3,349 sq. on 5 december 2013 the second applicant challenged the latter decision with an administrative action.
the case concerned the publication of a newspaper article on the website of the new york times. in the article the applicant had been mentioned by name and, based on reports by the us federal bureau of investigation (hereinafter “the fbi”) and european law-enforcement agencies, the applicant’s alleged ties to russian organised crime had been publicised. the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in düsseldorf. the united states attorney in manhattan, [m.w.], founded in 1991 as part of a plan to build a media empire in europe. who no longer has an interest in 1 + 1, has denied any links to russian organized crime. ’s claim of his ties to organized crime, although an assistant confirmed that he had received the inquiries. he is barred from entering the united states. that is the second transaction being looked at by prosecutors. it is not clear why such a circuitous route was used, and a person involved in the transaction, with inside knowledge of the owners of international teleservices, said the $1.4 million payment was not for a license fee. central european media officials were nervous about the license they won, and sought the opinion of two law firms in kiev. had secured a letter from the ukrainian justice ministry stating that the license was valid. however, the applicant refrained from answering the questions or commenting on the planned publication. on 31 july 2002 the applicant sought injunctions against certain parts of the article (highlighted in the article, see paragraph 9 above), published in the print and online versions. in addition, the reporting must be balanced, the journalist must not fail to report on exculpatory circumstances and the person concerned must, as a rule, be invited to make his own comments before publication. the court also took into account that the article remained accessible in an online archive of the daily newspaper. this was expressly pointed out in the challenged article with the words, "according to reports by the f.b.i. therefore, the informational interest of the public outweighed the concerns of protecting the applicant’s personality right, even taking into account that such reporting might seriously damage his private and professional reputation. on 2 october 2012, the federal court of justice rejected a complaint lodged by the applicant against the court of appeal’s refusal to grant leave to appeal on points of law. on 26 april 2013 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint (no.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in krasnodar. he and his brother were pushing their broken motorcycle to take it to a friend for repairs. then sat on the motorcycle and asked them to push it. seized the applicant by his neck, knocked him down and started strangling him. according to an administrative-offence record drawn up by officer kh., at 2 p.m. on 4 november 2003 the applicant’s brother was apprehended for driving a motorcycle without a driving licence. the applicant was heard by the court and denied having used obscene language. on 6 november 2003 the applicant was examined by doctors at the krasnogvardeyskiy district polyclinic. the doctors recorded oedema of both lips with bruises, oedema in the area of the left eyebrow and right elbow, and oedema, abrasions and bruises in the area of the neck. investigators of the krasnogvardeyskiy district prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers for lack of the elements of a crime in their actions. in the refusal of 7 february 2004 o., an investigator, found that the applicant’s injuries had been the result of the use of physical force by officers ch. in a decision of 27 february 2004, setting aside the refusal of 7 february 2004, a senior prosecutor from the adygeya republic prosecutor’s office held that, in the course of an additional inquiry, the investigator should establish exactly what each of the police officers had done when restraining the applicant and placing him in their car, in particular if the injury had been inflicted by seizing the applicant by his neck. the applicant had been sitting on the passenger’s seat. the police officers had been drawing up an administrative-offence record when the applicant had started walking away, swearing at them. the investigator referred to explanations by sh. on 23 september 2005 the applicant’s mother lodged an application (жалоба) with the krasnogvardeyskiy district court (“the district court”). since then she had not been informed of any new decision. it also noted that the applicant, no longer a minor, should have applied to court himself. since the district court had not examined whether the refusal to institute criminal proceedings of 29 november 2005 was lawful and well-founded, the adygeya republic supreme court could not deal with that issue on appeal. it further stated that in her application she had not formulated a complaint that the refusal to institute criminal proceedings was unlawful or unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 december 2009 the applicant was arrested. on 9 december 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand by the judge at the istanbul assize court on suspicion of committing crimes on behalf of an illegal terrorist organisation, disseminating propaganda for the same organisation, storage of hazardous materials, and damage to public property. on 30 december 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed his indictment with the istanbul assize court. on 6 may 2010 the first hearing was held before the istanbul assize court. at the end of the hearing the court ordered the continuation of his detention in the presence of the applicant. the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 20 may 2010 the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 10 december 2010 the applicant was released from detention on remand. at the time when the application was lodged, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mersin. the applicant is a teacher in primary school and at the material time she was a member and secretary of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası). on 28 november 2008 the applicant participated in a demonstration organised by the above mentioned trade union on the theme “no to violence against women”. on 29 june 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on the applicant for her participation in the aforementioned demonstration under article 125 of the law no. on 10 july 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment. on 29 july 2009 the disciplinary board of the yenişehir district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
following the establishment of the communist regime in romania in 1947, the state proceeded to nationalise buildings and agricultural land on a large scale. on 12 october 2010, the court adopted a pilot judgment in the case of maria atanasiu and others v. romania (nos. however, the court also held that law no. in particular, the applicants have alleged that their title to the property (building and appurtenant land) had been acknowledged by the domestic courts; however, owing to the sale of the property by the state, the applicants were prevented from enjoying their respective right. the judgment was not appealed against and thus became final. 112/1995, company b., managing the building (see paragraph 14 above), had sold the flats located therein to the tenants. the sale contract in respect of the ground-floor flat was concluded on 23 june 1997 between b. on behalf of the state, and the tenant, s. a.-l. (c)  steps taken under ordinary law and under law no. 10/2001, which had entered into force in the meantime. this time, however, she based her claim on the provisions of law no. on 23 and 24 april 2015 the bucharest city hall requested the applicant to complete her administrative file with documents related to her claim. 30, located in building a/4, victoria street, piteşti – the applicants’ property – was seized by the state under decree no. they were not notified of the administrative decision to confiscate the property. between 1991 and 1995, the applicants wrote several letters to various domestic authorities, including the piteşti city council, the piteşti prefect’s office and the director of company r., which managed the building on behalf of the state, seeking to obtain possession of the flat. 30, in accordance with the provisions of law no. on 23 march 2001 the piteşti court of appeal dismissed the appeal because no statement of appeal had been submitted. (c)  challenge to the enforcement of the judgment of 22 may 2000 36. moreover, the judgment of 22 may 2000 awarding the applicants title to the property was unenforceable (inopozabilă) against the buyers, because they had not been parties to the respective proceedings. seeking to recover possession of flat no. an appeal lodged by the defendants was allowed by the argeş county court on 16 june 2008.
the applicants, who belong to the roma ethnic group, were born in 1970 and 1957 respectively and live in mănăstirea (călărași). on 16 september 2010 the dgaspc asked the social services department of the mănăstirea municipality (“the spas”) to look into the education provided to the family’s seven children, verify their welfare situation and their health, and to provide it with all relevant information (see paragraph 12 below). the spas’s report also mentioned that the applicants refused to enrol their children in school or with a doctor, and that they restricted their access to outdoor activities and any other activity which could potentially stimulate their integration or adaptation to life within the community. it added that the house was heated and clean, and that a meal had been prepared. in the absence of appeals, these judgments became final. ... [the applicants] are known in the community as individuals who generate conflict and tensions, and who frequently accuse, criticise and insult the local authorities and their neighbours for financial reasons (they ask for additional benefits, etc.)... the psychologist recommended cognitive stimulation, particularly in terms of language. 272/2004, ordered that the children be temporarily placed in care: by an initial judgment, i. was placed with a child-minder; by the second judgment, the six other children were placed in a special residential centre. they asked for the action brought by the dgaspc to be dismissed and submitted written evidence. on 22 and 23 september 2011 the applicants’ six oldest children underwent individual psychological tests. it noted the temporary nature of the measure, which was due to be lifted once the applicants had submitted the necessary financial and non-financial guarantees with regard to raising their children. by a final judgment of 28 november 2011, the appeal court dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the judgment of 7 september 2011 in respect of i.’s placement. following the temporary placement of their children in care, the applicants had work done on the house to improve their living conditions. the applicants had apparently refused to undergo this testing. having regard to those factors, the dgaspc concluded that, for the time being, the conditions for ensuring the children’s safe return to the applicants had not been met: it emphasised the lack of fuel for heating the house and the second applicant’s lack of cooperation with the authorities. on this occasion, it was noted that the applicants were maintaining contact with their children by telephone, since it was difficult for them to travel to the residential centre on account of the wintery weather conditions. in the meantime, on 11 january 2012 the applicants had brought an action against the dgaspc before the county court. the appeal court concluded that, in any event, the improvements in the applicants’ living conditions noted in the social inquiry report which had been added to the case file (see paragraph 42 above) was not the only condition that the applicants had to fulfil before being able to request their children’s return. by a decision of 4 april 2012, the municipal council granted the first applicant the above-mentioned ron 1,800 in emergency aid. on 17 april 2012 the second applicant registered his home address at the first applicant’s home.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in antalya. the applicant is a teacher in a high school. at the material time he was a member of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası). in may 2009, disciplinary proceedings were instituted against the applicant for putting up a notice encouraging the participation in a press statement published by his union on the notice board that was set aside for that particular purpose in their office, and for distributing it in one of the common areas at school. on 30 september 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on him, for putting up and distributing notices produced by the trade union, of which he was a member, under article 125 of the law no. on 6 october 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment. on 15 october 2009 the disciplinary board of the kepez district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in ajdovščina. she was told that mr štefančič was mentally ill and had already been treated in the hospital several times. in view of this, the psychiatrist had assessed that mr štefančič was dangerous and in need of treatment, and added that he should be taken seriously due to his physical strength. also called the nova gorica police and told them about mr štefančič’s visits to the prosecutor’s office. they asked her whether her son was in the house and whether he was armed. the medical team informed the applicant why they were there and then entered the house, while the police officers remained at the front door. attempted to restrain him, he resisted forcefully and pushed them off. ordered a muzzled dog on a leash to jump at him. she asked the police officers what was going on, to which one of them replied that they were resuscitating her son. he attributed the death to a heart attack or stroke. she replied that he was not, as far as she was aware. took him by the arms to lead him to the ambulance but he resisted strongly. then used the so-called “rear chokehold” technique on him, and together they managed to turn him onto his side. as far as he could remember, he called out that mr štefančič was not breathing. standing outside, stated that he had not seen when and how mr štefančič had started to vomit, but heard the exchange between his colleague and dr b.a. although in the beginning of the intervention mr štefančič appeared agitated, but not aggressive, he started to resist forcefully when the police officers attempted to handcuff him. one of the police officers then called out to him that something was not right, that mr štefančič had vomited and was having trouble breathing. with regard to the question of potential liability for mr štefančič’s death, he took the view that the asphyxiation occurred during the police intervention, and that the presence of a doctor could not have altered the course of events. having regard to the agitation and aggressiveness of the patient, as well as the circumstances of the incident, such measures almost certainly could not have been applied. on 18 september 2008 the investigating judge of the nova gorica district court sent the statements of the persons involved in the incident, a record of the examination of the scene, the order for a forensic examination of mr štefančič’s body and the forensic report to the state prosecutor’s office.
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1967 respectively and live in mersin and diyarbakır. the applicants were civil servants for tax offices attached to the ministry of finance in mersin and diyarbakır. at the material time they were members of the local branch of the trade union büro emekçileri, which is affiliated to trades union confederation of public employees (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu-“kesk”). in march and april 2009, the applicants were informed of the disciplinary investigations that were initiated against them for having participated in a statement to the press organised by the trade union of which they were members and were invited to send their defence submissions. subsequently, the disciplinary sanctions of warning and reprimand were imposed on the applicants for their participation in the aforementioned trade union activities under section 125 of the law no. the applicants objected to these decisions and requested their annulment. in may 2009 the disciplinary board of the tax offices dismissed the applicants’ objections considering that the contested decisions were in accordance with law and there were no grounds for annulment.
the applicants were born in 1967, 1965, 1968, 1960 and 1958 respectively and live in i̇zmir. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. the applicants have been employed in the duty-free shops at i̇zmir adnan menderes airport since 1993. during their employment the applicants operated in “work and rest cycles”. for the remaining eight months of the year, the winter period, they worked for twenty-four hours and rested for the next forty-eight hours. their work schedule did not take account of weekends or public holidays as the duty‑free shops remained open twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. they claimed compensation for the overtime hours they had worked beyond the legal working time for the previous five years of their employment. he further referred to an official audit report by the ministry of labour, dated 10 september 2003, which noted that during the preceding summer period, between the months of june and september, workers at the company in question had worked overtime of 139.5 hours in months which had thirty-one calendar days and 135 hours in the remaining months. in the previous winter period, between october and may, they had worked 22.5 hours and fifteen hours of overtime respectively. the expert determined that the employer did not owe anything to the applicants for weekend and public holiday work as the remuneration for those days had been in accordance with the applicable regulations. the applicants raised a number of objections to the expert report. they also submitted that the deduction of three hours of rest per day was not based on fact but was an assumption by the expert. it submitted that the applicants had in any event been aware of the working arrangements and had never requested a transfer to another unit of the general directorate of monopolies. the i̇zmir labour court asked the expert to supplement his report with findings concerning the parties’ objections. it rejected their claims for pay for weekend and public holiday work and for unused annual leave. both parties appealed to the court of cassation. on 17 april 2006 the court of cassation quashed the decision and remitted the case. in the resumed proceedings, the i̇zmir labour court requested that the expert amend the report in light of the court of cassation’s decision. on 11 september 2007 the expert revised the findings as ordered and concluded that the applicants were likely to have had a minimum of three hours for rest during a twenty-four-hour shift. on 25 january 2010 the applicants appealed against the decision and maintained that the fact that they had worked continuously for twenty-four hours had already been confirmed by the legal records of the ministry of labour, both parties’ witness statements and other evidence in the file, including the expert reports overturned by the court of cassation.
the applicants are serving either life sentences or whole-life sentences in different prisons in bulgaria. the applicant is currently serving a whole-life imprisonment sentence in belene prison. the sentence was delivered by the dobrich regional court in 2003. the cell was humid, badly heated during the winter and deprived of ventilation during the summer. given that in the cell there was neither running water, nor toilet facilities, the applicant had had to use a bucket to relieve himself. the food was insufficient in quantity and of poor quality. he was detained in the high-security wing of this prison, alone in a cell. according to the applicant, its floor was partially made of bare cement and there was no sports equipment there. the government submitted that the applicant had been serving his sentence under the “special regime” in bobov dol prison between 5 february 2002 and 19 april 2007 when his regime had been changed to “severe”. m. the cell had contained a sink and a toilet separated from the rest of the space. the government submitted that the applicant had been kept in a permanently locked up cell in bobov dol prison, in strict compliance with the relevant legal provisions and in particular section 71(2) of the execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act. as of february 2016, they specified that the applicant had formally satisfied the conditions for being detained together with other prisoners but that the applicant had considered himself not ready for it. he complained that his sentence had amounted, from the time of its imposition, to inhuman and degrading punishment, in breach of article 3 of the convention and that he did not have an effective remedy in this connection. this was upheld on appeal by the sofia appellate court in a final decision of 9 february 2011. the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment in a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 13 november 2008. the government clarified that this changed in 2012 when a toilet had been built in his cell. he was also allowed to use sanitary facilities outside of his cell five times a day, and to shower twice a week. until 2009 he was detained in varna prison and since 18 february 2009 he has been detained in plovdiv prison. the government pointed out that the applicant left his cell for an hour in the morning and for an hour in the afternoon every day for exercise and to spend time in the open air. furthermore, when various competitions had taken place in the prison, or there had been concerts or recitals, inmates serving life sentences had been offered a chance to attend them as spectators.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1964 respectively and live in linz. they have been living in a stable relationship for many years. on 21 february 2010 the applicants lodged an application to enter into a registered partnership under the registered partnership act (eingetragene partnerschaft-gesetz). on 17 march 2010 the mayor of linz dismissed their application in accordance with sections 1, 2 and 5(1)(1) of the registered partnership act, finding that the applicants did not meet the legal requirements, as the registered partnership was exclusively reserved for same-sex couples. citing, inter alia, articles 8 and 14 of the convention, they complained of discrimination based on their sex and their sexual orientation. the upper austrian regional governor (oberösterreichischer landeshauptmann) dismissed the appeal on 18 august 2010, arguing with reference to schalk and kopf v. austria (no. 30141/04, echr 2010) that as the contracting states were allowed to restrict access to marriage to different-sex couples, it would appear unreasonable not to allow them to reserve access to registered partnerships exclusively for same-sex couples. the applicants subsequently lodged complaints with both the administrative court and the constitutional court, arguing that marriage was not a suitable option for them, as it was substantially different from a registered partnership. in their view, a registered partnership was in many ways more modern and “lighter” than marriage. the applicants put forward several examples: the different statutory time-limit for divorce versus the time-limit for dissolution of a registered partnership in the event of an irretrievable breakdown (unheilbare zerrüttung) of the relationship; the alimony payment obligations following a divorce/dissolution where blame could be placed on one spouse/partner; the obligations conferred by the respective legal institutions, in particular as regards trust, faithfulness and contributions to the household; and the consequences of a declaration of the death of a spouse/partner. the applicants argued that the court’s considerations in schalk and kopf in respect of marriage were not applicable to the registered partnership, which was a new legal institution, introduced in the twenty-first century. it was therefore neither based on a long-standing discriminatory tradition and deep-rooted social connotations, nor aimed at possible procreation. on 22 september 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ complaint. the relevant parts of its judgment read as follows:
“article 12 of the [convention] only applies to the traditional civil marriage ..., which has ‘deep-rooted social and cultural connotations’ and was, in the historical context, clearly understood ‘in its traditional sense’ (echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 55, 62). if the court, in its judgment in the case of schalk and kopf, considers that the national provisions in the council of europe member states are diverse and range from allowing same-sex marriage to explicitly forbidding it, and concludes from this that, as matters stand, the question whether or not to allow same-sex marriage is left to regulation by domestic law (echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 60f), this must, in view of the small number of states providing for a registered partnership for different‑sex couples in addition to marriage, be even more valid for this question. ...
[a]s the austrian legislator has provided for the possibility of legal recognition for same-sex couples by introducing the registered partnership, people may rely on the prohibition of discrimination provided for by article 14 of the [convention] ...
the court has also stated, however, in the case of schalk and kopf, that the legislator may restrict access to marriage to different-sex couples because it has a certain margin of appreciation as regards the exact status conferred by alternative means of recognition. moreover, the court assumes that the registered partnership act allows couples to obtain, in many aspects, a legal status that is equal or comparable to marriage; apart from parental rights, there were only slight differences (see echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 108 et seq.). ...
the constitutional court is not called upon to examine whether the particular differences between these legal institutions, as regards the legal consequences and dissolution options, comply with the principle of equality [gleichheitssatz] and the prohibition of discrimination pursuant to article 14 taken in conjunction with article 8 of the [convention], since the only question to be examined is whether different-sex couples have a constitutional right to access to the registered partnership.” on 27 february 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ complaint (see paragraph 9 above) as unfounded. that decision was served on the applicants’ counsel on 25 march 2013.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in turin. following the meeting, he was stripped of his clothes and led to a cell in the solitary confinement wing. he was subsequently given rationed quantities of food. the applicant was beaten by prison officers, often more than once per day. the beatings occurred both during the day and at night. during the period he spent in solitary confinement he was only allowed outside the cell twice, once to shower and once for some outdoor time. on the same date the applicants joined the proceedings as civil parties. its findings may be summarised as follows. as to the establishment of the facts concerning the ill-treatment, the court found that the evidence gathered during the investigation and produced at the trial showed that the events had occurred in the manner described by the victims in their submissions during the trial. some did not have bed linen, mattresses, sanitary facilities or heating. the court therefore ordered that the proceedings against c.b. the prosecutor contended that the most appropriate offence for the purposes of classification of the conduct in question would have been aggravated ill‑treatment under article 572 of the italian criminal code ‒ as initially identified in the bill of indictment ‒ in conjunction with article 608 of the criminal code. by a judgment issued on 21 may 2012, and filed with the court registry on 27 july 2012, the court of cassation declared the public prosecutor’s application inadmissible. ’s potential knowledge of the decision at a later stage, as argued by the district court. was dismissed from his functions (destituito dal servizio). at the court’s request, the government submitted extracts from the prison medical record of the second applicant between 26 november 2004 and 5 march 2005 and typed copies of his hospitalisation record of 16 december 2004. the prison medical record indicates that on 13 december 2004 the second applicant was examined visually (whilst still “behind bars”). the record further indicates that another visual examination (also “behind bars”) took place on 15 december 2004. on 15 december 2004 the record shows that the applicant underwent a medical examination in the afternoon. as to the first applicant, no copy of the prison medical register had been submitted by the government, notwithstanding the court’s request for such information.
the applicant was born in 1949, he is a lawyer and lives in nicosia. on 16 december 2005 the applicant made a lengthy supplementary statement to the investigating judge, providing his comments on the statements collected by the judge and referring to various proceedings in which the witnesses had been involved. on 21 december 2005, upon completion of the investigation, the investigating judge submitted a report to the supreme court summarising his investigation and the evidence collected. by a letter dated 10 february 2006 the chief registrar of the supreme court informed the applicant that the court had decided that a disciplinary process was warranted. this included two charges of misconduct, and details of the preparatory investigation by the investigating judge. a list of fifteen witnesses was attached to the charge sheet. in particular, he argued that the investigation had been incomplete as statements had not been taken from the people indicated by the applicant. the applicant’s lawyer agreed that the proceedings would not be held in public. following a request by the applicant’s lawyer, the scj also held on the same day that in view of the defence’s line of argument all the files of the proceedings in which the witnesses had sat as members of the idc, from the applicant’s appointment as president of the idc onwards, should be brought before it. further statements that related to pending proceedings and complaints that had previously been dealt with by the supreme court were removed from the charge sheet. it therefore called the applicant to put forward his defence. the applicant took until 23 june 2006 to set out his defence case, testifying himself and calling thirty-six witnesses. he stressed, however, that this had nothing to do with the judges as individuals. ...
at no stage did the supreme council of judicature function as a public prosecutor against mr kamenos. on the contrary, the president and members of the supreme council of judicature asked very few questions, and they were solely for the purpose of clarification; special reference will be made to some of those questions at the appropriate stage. not a single question was put to mr kamenos. the principle is based, as stated in the decision, on what was said by the supreme court of the state, that the purpose of the procedure was not to punish judges who have erred but to protect the judicial system and those who are subject to the formidable power exercised by judges. ...
before referring to the evidence, it is useful if we outline the methodology which led to the taking of statements by the investigating officer. consequently, as is in any case self-evident, the object of the hearing is [to determine] whether, on the basis of the evidence of those ten witnesses, the charge has been substantiated as formulated. he was paid a retirement lump sum and started receiving his pension.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in zujūnai. on 15 april 1993 the applicant purchased a total of 0.2 hectares of land from the state. nevertheless, the plot of land assigned to the applicant was approved by the county’s chief architect. the applicant’s neighbours appealed but on 4 january 2007 the vilnius regional court upheld the decision of the court of first instance. on 11 april 2008 the vilnius district court held that the land had been sold to the applicant in breach of the provisions of domestic law (see paragraph 65 below). the court stated that the mechanism of allocating the additional plot to the applicant had been breached, but that he was a bona fide owner. the case file contains no information of whether there was an appeal on points of law. as a result, the court upheld the vilnius district court’s decision of 4 december 2009. the prosecutor general lodged an appeal on points of law. on 14 july 2011 the vilnius regional court held that the first‑instance decision (see paragraph 19 above) had lacked reasons for why a clear mistake in the application of the law had been made (see paragraph 57 below) and without them the appellate court could not decide whether the prosecutor general’s request to reopen proceedings had been examined properly. reopening proceedings would thus lead to a repeated assessment of the facts and would be contrary to the domestic law and the main purpose of reopening proceedings. violations of such regulations were directly related to a breach of the public interest. the applicant submitted a separate complaint. the applicant lodged two appeals on points of law. he also sought to have the proceedings reopened. on 26 april 2013 the vilnius district court rejected the applicant’s request to suspend execution, holding that his arguments did not constitute sufficient grounds. it held that his argument that new circumstances had arisen was unfounded. in january 2015 the authorities conducted an examination of the use of the 0.05 hectares of land and found that the applicant had not removed the fence, trees, a shed and paving stones from the plot. in february 2017 the applicant requested that the authorities rent the plot to him. such objects did not include temporary constructions, engineering systems, buildings that did not have a clear functional dependency or use, or other constructions designated as serving as dependencies of a main construction.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bacău. the envelopes, sent abroad by registered post sometime between 11 april and 13 may 2003, had been returned unopened as the intended recipients had failed to collect them. the people who had sent them could not be identified by postal workers and their addresses had proved to be fictitious. between january and february 2005 similar envelopes containing similar prescription medicines meant to be sent abroad were discovered by the post office and given to the police. on 9 and 14 february 2005 the division for the investigation of organised crime and terrorism from the bacău prosecutor’s office (“the prosecutor”) issued orders authorising the seizure of the suspicious envelopes under the urgent procedure provided for by article 98 § 12 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the urgent procedure” and “the ccp” – see paragraph 26 below). on 18 february 2005 the prosecutor started criminal investigations in the matter against unidentified perpetrators. the prosecutor requested audio and video-surveillance of the post offices in bacău. the measure was authorised by the bacău county court on 23 february 2005. on 25 march and 18 april 2005 an expert examined the writing on the envelopes seized by the police and concluded that it belonged to the applicant. based on the evidence that had been gathered, the prosecutor concluded that between 2003 and 2005 the applicant had obtained medical products classified as drugs without prescription and had tried to sell them abroad. the applicant contested the lawfulness of the interception of his correspondence before the bacău county court and argued that the prosecutor had not obtained authorisation from the court to seize it, as required by the relevant provision of the ccp. he denied any involvement in drug trafficking. on 27 february 2007 the applicant was acquitted. the county court excluded the prosecution’s main evidence, considering that the seized envelopes had been obtained unlawfully as the prosecutor had failed to ask the court to approve the measure. on 18 september 2007 the bacău court of appeal upheld the above judgment. the decision of the high court of cassation and justice was final. the court further relied on the results of checks on the addresses abroad used by the applicant; interpol information about the recipients of the envelopes; and police reports about checks on the two pharmacies used by the applicant, notably concerning bills and permits for selling prescription medicine which constituted drugs (see paragraph 14 above). it also reiterated that as the situation had been urgent, the prosecutor had been allowed by law to intercept the correspondence without court authorisation, provided that he informed the court afterwards, which he had done. he did not contest the lawfulness of the remaining evidence. he did not contest the remaining evidence in the file.
the first applicant was born in 1955 and lives in belgrade, serbia. the second applicant is a privately owned company, founded by the first applicant in 1990, with its registered seat in ilijaš - podlugovi, bosnia and herzegovina. on 19 december 2001 the second applicant requested a licence to build a petrol station on the main highway in bosnia and herzegovina. on 21 october 2002 the federal road directorate of bosnia and herzegovina (“the directorate”) rejected the request. the second applicant appealed on 31 october 2002. on 28 february 2003 the federal ministry upheld that decision. on 28 march 2003 the second applicant initiated proceedings for judicial review before the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (“the supreme court”). on 25 august 2005 and 24 august 2006 the second applicant urged the supreme court to expedite the proceedings. on 22 november 2006 the supreme court quashed the decisions of 21 october 2002 and 28 february 2003 (see paragraphs 7-8 above) on procedural grounds, and remitted the case to the directorate. on 9 may 2007 the second applicant informed the supreme court that the decision of 22 november 2006 had not been enforced yet. on 16 august 2007 the directorate rejected the second applicant’s request. on 30 august 2007 the second applicant appealed. on 8 november 2007 the second applicant complained to the administrative inspectorate of the federal ministry of justice about the inaction of the administration. on 12 november 2007 the federal ministry upheld the decision of 16 august 2007 (see paragraph 13 above). the decision was served on the second applicant on 18 april 2008. on 31 august 2009 the supreme court referred the claim to the mostar cantonal court, as the competent court. on 27 november 2009 the mostar cantonal court rejected the application for judicial review. on 6 january 2010 the applicant submitted a request for an extraordinary review of the decision of 27 november 2009 with the supreme court, which request was rejected as unfounded on 12 may 2010. on 23 december 2013 the constitutional court rejected the appeal as unfounded. it noted that the relevant proceedings had lasted eight years and five months in total, that seven different decisions had been rendered by the competent authorities and that, therefore, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in dublin, ireland. romanian custom officers stopped the bus, got on and started searching the passengers. two silver ingots were found in the applicant’s pockets. an offence report drafted by the officer stated that the applicant had failed to declare two silver ingots of 1 kg each and had thereby breached the provisions of article 653 (a) of the customs regulations (see paragraph 12 below). he had kept them on him in order to prevent them being stolen during the bus trip and not to elude customs. the passengers had not been allowed to get off the bus before the customs officers had got on and he had wished to avoid saying what he was carrying in front of the other passengers. on 26 january 2009 the huşi district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as ill-founded. based on the elements in the case file, the court observed that the customs officer had asked the applicant whether he had anything to declare and the applicant had said no. an appeal on points of law by the applicant (recurs) was dismissed with final effect on 3 june 2009 by the vaslui county court. the court held that the applicant, who had signed the offence report, had failed to produce any evidence to challenge the customer officer’s findings in that document. the relevant provisions of the romanian customs regulations, as approved by government decision no. 707/2006, are as follows:
article 156
“(1) a written customs declaration shall be submitted for the following goods:
....
c) objects made of precious metals, with or without precious stones, which exceed the purposes of personal use as set forth in legal provisions;
(2) for the goods listed in paragraph (1) travellers shall submit the written customs declaration on standard forms which are made available free of charge, upon request, by customs offices.” 2/2001 on the legal system concerning offences ...” 13. the relevant provisions of government ordinance no. (2) the principal sanctions are:
...
b) a fine
...
(3) the complementary sanctions are:
a) the confiscation of goods destined, used or derived from offences; ...
(4) special laws may provide for additional principal or complementary sanctions. (5) the sanction must be proportionate to the degree of social danger of the offence committed. (6) complementary sanctions are applied in line with the nature and gravity of the offence. 1214/2007 amending annex i to council regulation (eec) no. 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff entered into force on 1 january 2008 and from that date was directly applicable in all member states. in section xiv, chapter 71 the regulation does not provide for any customs duties for silver in unwrought or semi-manufactured forms or in powder.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in vilnius. see paragraph 7 above) and the incident between the applicant and d.a. was apprehended in ukraine and subsequently extradited to the lithuanian authorities. in december 2007 the applicant was officially notified that he was suspected of having organised the murder of r.ž. he noted that the investigation concerned two criminal offences – the murder of r.ž. the criminal case was transferred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits. had addressed to the applicant at some point in 1993. the court changed its legal classification. had intended to kill the applicant or any of the passers-by (see paragraph 8 above). despite the fact that he had not been the accused in that case and had not been able to defend himself. ’s appeal contesting his guilt in respect of both charges. and the applicant submitted appeals on points of law against the court of appeal’s judgment of 12 june 2012. on 28 february 2013 the supreme court dismissed the appeals. for personal gain while they were in a helpless state, as set out in article 24 § 5 and article 129 § 2 (2), (5), (6) and (9) of the criminal code (see paragraphs 34-35 below). the case was transferred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits. had written the letter with the purpose of blackmailing the applicant, which was why the applicant had decided to give it to the police. ’s letter, the court stated that, although the letter included facts which were true, some of its other contents appeared to be “characteristic of blackmail”, in particular those which alleged that the applicant had bought d.a. avoid criminal responsibility (see paragraph 16 above). the prosecutor appealed against that judgment. ’s letter, it stated that the courts in the criminal proceedings against d.a.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in celje. he had been a professional truck driver until he became unable to work due to epilepsy. he was found to have a right to be reassigned to a suitable position of employment where he and others would not be at risk because of his condition, with (retroactive) effect from 14 august 2002. on 21 february 2005 the celje regional unit of the pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the regional zpiz”) granted the applicant a so-called “allowance for the period of waiting to be reassigned to or employed in a different appropriate position of employment” (hereinafter “waiting period allowance”) from 8 october 2004. subsequently, on 28 june 2011 it adopted a decision granting him a disability allowance (nadomestilo za invalidnost) from 24 february 2011 onwards. it was established that his capacity to work had in fact further reduced, even though the category (iii) of his disability remained unchanged. it drew the applicant’s attention to section 185 of the 1999 act, which required beneficiaries to inform the zpiz of any change in circumstances which could affect their rights under that act (see paragraph 26 below). on 21 july 2011 the applicant appealed against the above decision, arguing that in determining the amount of his disability benefit, the regional zpiz should have respected the principle of acquired rights. he pointed out that his benefit had reduced considerably, even though his disability had in fact worsened, and claimed that such a decision was unlawful. on 5 december 2011 the applicant lodged a claim with the celje labour and social court challenging the above decisions. he reiterated that the disability allowance granted to him under the 1999 act violated his acquired rights and that instead of increasing his benefit it reduced it by half, which was unlawful and unconstitutional. on 26 march 2012 the celje labour and social court dismissed the applicant’s claim. in cases where a fresh assessment was made the 1999 act was to be applied. on 25 april 2012 the applicant appealed against the judgment, repeating the complaints he had made before the first-instance court and alleging that he ought to have been informed of the consequences of a request for a reassessment of his disability. if that had been the case, he would have “forbidden” his doctor from making such a request. in such a situation, section 397(3) of the 1999 act provided that the applicant acquired rights under the act. on 4 september 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law before the supreme court, arguing that he could not have legitimately expected that the worsening of his disability would result in a severe reduction of his disability benefit. the applicant further alleged that the newly determined amount of disability benefit interfered with his constitutional right to property. on 5 march 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, finding that the higher labour and social court had sufficiently explained that the change in his level of disability had required a fresh determination of his benefit in accordance with the 1999 act. he thus received the disability allowance for a period of twenty-seven months.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in gyöngyöspata. in the applicant’s account of the events, altogether six officers and two security guards took part in the ill-treatment, with the apparent intention of extracting his confession to further offences. since she had apparently been told only about chest complaints, she did not examine the applicant’s legs or feet. herself did not produce a medical report on the premises. still on the same evening, at 8.38 p.m., x-rays were taken of the applicant at albert schweitzer hospital in hatvan, a town at a distance of 32 kilometres, where the applicant was driven by his family members. he was diagnosed with a “chest contusion”, a “skull contusion” and “bodily injury inflicted by human force”. he added that between his release and the medical inspection, he had been continuously accompanied by his relatives, who testified in the ensuing proceedings that he had not suffered any injuries outside the police department. on 8 november 2010 the applicant was heard as a witness and shown, for the purposes of his identifying his alleged assailants, the photos of police officers serving at the gyöngyös police department. nevertheless, he finally identified eight persons as the perpetrators – six police officers (t.b., and two security guards employed by the police department (p.g. mivel a kényszerítő eszköz alkalmazására írt rendőri jelentés adatai szerint a körzeti megbízott panasz és sérülésmentesen adta át nevezettet az ügyeletes tisztnek, a sérülések valószínűsíthetően ezen időpontot követően keletkeztek.” on 28 december 2010 the miskolc investigating prosecutor’s office discontinued the investigation, holding in essence that the applicant’s version of events was not plausible. furthermore, the two security guards (p.g. the motion included assertions about racial insults being uttered during the incident. the eger high court held a hearing on 26 september 2012. had beaten him, so he dropped the charges against them. accordingly, the court terminated the proceedings against these three defendants. the remaining defendants either denied the charges or refused to make any statements. a court-appointed medical expert stated that if the applicant had had the injuries in question when examined by dr c.s. on 28 november 2012 the eger high court acquitted the officers for want of sufficient evidence.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in co. roscommon. the sale took the form of two agreements. from the time she moved into the house in march 2000, the applicant noted major structural defects in the property. she reported this to homebond in september 2001. according to the applicant, homebond refused to issue an engineer’s certificate/guarantee upon the completion of the works, which would have been required if the applicant were to sell the house afterwards. in july 2004 the applicant again applied to the high court for a default judgment against the first three defendants, in light of their failure to enter their defence to the action. on 20 december 2004, at the request of the applicant, the high court gave a default judgment against the fifth and sixth defendants (mr q and his company), holding them liable to the applicant in damages and for costs. homebond made a proposal to the applicant in june 2006 to carry out remedial work on the house. the applicant indicated her readiness to accept the proposal. however, when subsequently requested to assign her rights to homebond she sought clarification of the matter from the company, writing in april 2008 and again in april 2009. on 12 september 2011 the applicant once more issued notice of her intention to proceed. in july 2012 the applicant was informed that the case would be heard in early 2013. only the fourth and fifth defendants appeared (the latter only briefly) at the hearing that commenced on 29 january 2013. the first three defendants, although given notice of the hearing, were not represented at it. on 10 april 2013 the high court issued an order against the fourth defendant for the amount awarded to the applicant. for this it was required to serve the notice of appeal personally on the applicant within twenty-one days. on 19 december 2014 it set a hearing date of 23 february 2015. on 10 june 2013 the first and second defendants filed a notice of appeal against the judgment of the high court. there could only be a remedy against the third defendant, t and c developments ltd., on 29 july 2015 the supreme court refused to grant leave.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in moscow. on 3 march 2003 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic quashed the judgment on appeal and returned the case for a fresh examination, as the lower court had failed to address issues related s.’s property rights. on 29 july 2003 the district court ordered an expert examination of the flat in order to determine its market value. on 14 august 2003 the court proceedings resumed. in particular, the claim for compensation for the allegedly stolen property was dismissed as unfounded. on 11 june 2004, upon the applicant’s request, the bailiffs initiated the enforcement proceedings. on 27 august 2004 the district court granted the administration’s request for suspension of the enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003 until 15 january 2005 due to financial difficulties encountered by the debtor. on 15 november 2004 the applicant’s appeal against the above decision was dismissed. on 18 march 2005 the monetary award in accordance with the judgment of 29 august 2003 was paid to the applicant. on 15 november 2005 the district court suspended the proceedings, due to b.’s illness and asked the applicant to clarify his claims. on 21 december 2005 the applicant submitted the amended claims. the decision in those parts was remitted for a fresh examination due to failure by the lower court to assess certain evidence and misapplication of the material law. on 27 august 2007 the district court suspended the proceedings pending s.’s return from vacation. on 26 october 2007 the court ordered the applicant to clarify his claims and scheduled a new hearing on 23 november 2007. it appears that at some point the applicant provided the required information. on 30 april 2008 the district court dismissed the action as unfounded. the court explained that the applicant had other remedies to use under the civil law in order to protect his property rights. in particular, he could claim that an equivalent apartment or a compensation be provided to him. in the meantime, the applicant sued the administration for statutory interest for the delay in enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003. on 7 february 2007 the district court discontinued the proceedings as the judgment of 29 august 2003 had been quashed and a new decision in the case had not yet been adopted.
the applicants were born in 1949 and 1923 respectively and lived in bucharest, where the first applicant still lives. the applicants were co-owners of two adjacent plots of land in montenegro. on 13 june 2009, during a visit to the plots, the first applicant noticed a metal fence built partly on their property. the fence divided the two plots of land and made it impossible for them to access one plot from the other. it appears that the fence had been erected some time in february 2009. on 15 july 2009 the applicants, who had legal representation, instituted civil proceedings for trespass (radi smetanja posjeda) against b.ć., on 27 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor ruled in favour of the applicants and ordered b.ć. to remove the fence and pay the applicants 1,435 euros (eur) in respect of legal costs. the court was satisfied that the applicants had lodged their claim in time, given that the deadline for initiating proceedings was 30 days from the day on which they had noticed the trespass, taking into account that 13 and 14 july were national holidays. in doing so the court relied on section 77 of property act (see paragraph 14 below). on 20 december 2011 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica, ruling on an appeal lodged by b.ć., quashed the previous judgment and rejected the applicants’ claim (tužba se odbacuje) as submitted out of time. the court held that 13 and 14 july were indeed national holidays when the courts did not sit. it considered, however, that the 30-day period within which the applicants could institute proceedings was mandatory “[in which case] there could be no shifting of the time-limit when its last day fell on a day when the courts [did] not sit”. the time-limit had therefore expired on 13 july 2009, and the applicants had not filed their claim until 15 july 2009.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in omsk. the applicant was deputy head of the omsk regional department for the execution of sentences. on 22 august 2002 the novosibirsk regional court authorised for 180 days the interception and recording of the applicant’s telephone conversations, interception of postal communications and the collection of data from technical channels of communication. the surveillance authorisation read in its entirety as follows:
“operational-search measures carried out with the aim of combatting corruption within state authorities have revealed indications of a systematic bribery scheme operated by certain prison officials in the omsk region. according to operative information, there are good reasons to suspect [the applicant], deputy head of the omsk regional department for the execution of sentences, of arranging for, and systematically receiving, unlawful payments from confidants of the convicts serving their sentences in omsk penal institutions in exchange for granting them various privileges (such as a prison leave, improved conditions of detention or transfer to another penal institution within the omsk region, which was for some reason preferred by the convict in question). given that [the applicant’s] actions contain elements of criminal offences under article 290 § 4 of the criminal code [bribe-taking], classified as a serious offence, and under article 285 § 1 of the criminal code [abuse of power], it is necessary to perform a combination of operational-search measures (interception and recording of telephone conversations, monitoring of correspondence and collection of data from technical channels of communication) in order to collect evidence of his criminal activities, and to receive information about the bribe‑givers and the payment mechanisms used.” the government did not submit a copy of that decision. charges of bribe-taking or abuse of power have never been brought against the applicant. in march 2003 the applicant was charged with disclosure of state secrets, an offence under article 283 § 1 of the criminal code, for informing a convict’s relative that the convict was under covert surveillance. when studying the criminal case file, the applicant learnt for the first time that his telephone conversations had been recorded and his other communications monitored. he also learnt that a recording of his telephone conversation with ms l., a sister of a convict detained in a penal institution under his supervision, formed the basis for the charge of disclosure of state secrets. during the conversation, which had taken place on 17 october 2002, the applicant had warned ms l. that her relative was under covert surveillance and that there were listening devices hidden in his cell. at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. on 16 february 2005 the omsk regional court found the applicant guilty of disclosure of state secrets, an offence under article 283 § 1 of the criminal code. it relied on the recording of the applicant’s telephone conversation with ms l., among other evidence. it found that the recording was admissible as evidence as it had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. the applicant was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. in his appeal submissions the applicant complained, in particular, of a violation of his right to respect for his private life. he argued that the interception of his communications had been unlawful and unjustified, and that the recording of his conversation with ms l. was inadmissible as evidence. on 21 june 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). between 21 and 27 december 1989 many people including the applicants and/or their close relatives involved in this case took part in the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, brașov, reșița and craiova which led to the fall of the communist regime. they were injured or killed by gunfire during the demonstrations. in 1990 following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened investigations into the armed crackdown on the demonstrations. the main criminal investigation into the use of violence, particularly against civilian demonstrators, during the events of december 1989 in bucharest and other cities has been contained in file no. in a number of cases concerning events in bucharest and craiova, the prosecutor decided not to initiate a criminal investigation or to discontinue the proceedings. those decisions were taken between 1990 and 2007. it results from the documents submitted by the parties that, after the adoption of those decisions, the prosecutor continued to examine the circumstances of these cases in the main criminal investigation – object of file no. to date, the main criminal investigation appears to be still ongoing. the most important procedural steps were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and alecu and others v. romania, nos. 56838/08 and 80 others, §§ 7-13, 27 january 2015. following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office. on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the investigation, finding that the applicants’ complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty and partly ill-founded. it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences and that some of them were res judicata. the parties have not submitted any information on whether there was an appeal against that decision (see ecaterina mirea and others v. romania, nos. 43626/13 and 69 others, § 15, 12 april 2016). however, from the information available on the prosecutor’s office website, the investigation is still ongoing and must have therefore been reopened.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kópavogur. at the material time he was a well-known person in iceland who for years had published articles, blogs and books and appeared in films, on television and other media, under pseudonyms. in november 2011, an 18-year-old woman reported to the police that the applicant and his girlfriend had raped her. in january 2012 another woman reported to the police that the applicant had committed a sexual offence against her a few years earlier. x had altered the picture by drawing an upside down cross on the applicant’s forehead and writing “loser” across his face. however, his pictures were also accessible to other instagram users. by judgment of 1 november 2013, the district court found against the applicant. the court stated, inter alia, that the applicant enjoyed the personal protection afforded by law, irrespective of which of his pseudonyms he was using. he submitted further documents to support his argument. by judgment of 20 november 2014 the majority of the supreme court (two out of three judges) upheld the district court’s conclusion. the appealed judgment describes in detail that, before the complaints of sexual offences against him as described above had been reported, [the applicant] had been a well-known person, not least for his performance in public under the names of gillz or gillzenegger, the names under which he wrote on internet, published books and pictures and presented himself in the media. the documents of the case reveal that there were instances when his criticism had been directed towards named individuals, often women, and in some cases his words could be construed to mean that he was in fact recommending that they should be subjected to sexual violence. the [applicant] has often justified such conduct by stating that the material had been meant in jest and that those who criticised it lacked a sense of humour. act no 62/1994, irrespective of whether he was appearing under his own name or a pseudonym. in the same manner, he must take responsibility for the material he produces, irrespective of what name he chooses to use. x] enjoys freedom of expression according to article 73(2) of the icelandic constitution and article 10(1) of the european convention on human rights, and the district court reached the correct conclusion that under these circumstances he had enjoyed greater freedom to express himself about the [applicant] and his opinions. the ruling of the supreme court on 29 january 2009 in case no 321/2008. if the altered picture and the comment ‘fuck you rapist bastard’ are taken as a whole – as the parties agree should be the case – the supreme court agrees with the district court that this was a case of invective on the part of [x] against the [applicant] in a ruthless public debate, which the latter, as stated previously, had instigated. it was therefore a value judgment about the [applicant] and not a factual statement that he was guilty of committing rape. in this context, it makes a difference, even though this alone is not decisive for the conclusion, that [x] did not maintain that the [applicant] had thus committed a criminal offence against someone else, named or unnamed.
between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis. considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation. on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,100,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,800,000 for non‑pecuniary damage. no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit. some judgments in respect of several applicants remained unenforced (see “enforcement status” in the appendix). on different dates in 2012 and 2013 the domestic courts granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal essentially on the ground that the defendant authority had not been served with the impugned judgments. subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law. the applicants were ordered to repay the sums received under the judgments. the applicants lodged a supervisory review application. there is no indication that they requested the enforcement proceedings to be suspended pending the examination of their supervisory review application. between june and august 2013 the presidium of the regional supreme court partially quashed the appeal judgments as regards the applicants’ obligation to reimburse the sums paid.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in belgrade. on 15 june 2004 the applicant was injured in a traffic accident. an investigation into this incident was initiated in november 2004 and terminated in may 2005, with no criminal charges being brought. on 10 june 2005 the applicant lodged a civil claim for non-pecuniary damages with the second municipal court in belgrade against the belgrade city’s transportation company (gradsko saobraċajno preduzeċe beograd). on 27 december 2007 the second municipal court ruled in the applicant’s favour. on 3 july 2008 the district court quashed the decision and remitted the case to the first instance. on 23 october 2009 the second municipal court adopted a partial decision (delimičnu presudu) against which the applicant and the defendant appealed on 7 december 2009 and 10 december 2009, respectively. on 30 september 2010 the court of appeals in belgrade quashed the decision and remitted the case to the court of first instance for a re-trial. in the meantime, on 22 december 2009, the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court complaining under article 32 of the constitution (a provision which corresponds to article 6 of the convention) about the overall fairness of domestic proceedings and their length. the constitutional court’s decision was rendered on 4 november 2010. no violation in respect of the applicant’s complaints was found. due to applicant’s change to the value of the dispute (vrednost spora), on 31 october 2010 the court of first instance ruled that it had no further jurisdiction to examine the applicant’s complaint. the case was then sent to the high court in belgrade. on 20 june 2013 the high court adopted a partial judgment against which the applicant and the defendant appealed to the court of appeals in belgrade. on 6 june 2014 the court of appeals partly quashed the impugned judgment. it would appear that the case is still pending before the high court. additionally, on 28 october 2014 the applicant lodged a new submission with the constitutionals court concerning, inter alia, the length of the impugned proceedings. it would appear from the facts of the case that the constitutional court has not yet responded.
the applicants were born in 1957, 1961 and 1980 respectively and live in svetlograd, stavropol region. the first and second applicants are husband and wife. according to the first applicant, on 8 august 2003, at approximately 11.30 p.m., a police patrol car approached his car on a dark village road. when the first applicant stopped the car, one of the five policemen pulled him out of the car and hit him in the face. the first applicant fell down and fainted. after he regained consciousness and stood up, the police officers claimed that he was drunk and told him to take a breath test which showed that the first applicant was sober. the first applicant got into his car and drove away in the same direction. the first applicant approached the officers. the officer in charge identified himself as ye. according to the second applicant, her husband told her about the altercation with the police. the first applicant had refused to comply and had verbally insulted them demonstrating obscene hand gestures. on 9 september 2003 the first applicant underwent another forensic medical examination. it appears that the first applicant’s complaint about the police brutality was dismissed by the authorities on another six occasions. each time a superior prosecutor or a court quashed those decisions considering the investigator’s findings incomplete and unsubstantiated and ordering further inquiry into the first applicant’s allegations. on 22 july 2005 the district prosecutor opened a criminal investigation into the first applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment by unidentified police officers. on 2 february 2006 the first deputy of the regional prosecutor quashed decision of 22 december 2005 noting that the investigation had not been completed and reopened the proceedings. on 6 march 2006 the investigator concluded that there was no evidence showing that the first applicant’s injuries had been caused by the police officers and that he was unable to establish the real perpetrator. a week later the proceedings were again stayed because the perpetrator of the offence remained unknown. as regards the statements made to the contrary by the other neighbours, the investigator found them to be unsubstantiated. on 1 march 2011 the senior investigator with the district investigative committee dismissed the first applicant’s accusations against the police officers duplicating the findings summed up in the earlier decisions on the matter.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ivanovo. at the relevant time the applicant was a member of the ivanovo region electoral commission. on 23 october 2003 a deputy head of the ivanovo region department of internal affairs ordered audio-visual “surveillance” (“наблюдение”) of the applicant’s office. the parties did not submit a copy of that decision. the surveillance was carried out from 27 october to 5 november 2003 by means of a hidden camera. the applicant was subsequently charged with abuse of power, an offence under article 285 of the criminal code. while studying the criminal case file he discovered that it contained video recordings of him talking on the telephone in his office. at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. he claimed, in particular, that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence as they had been obtained unlawfully without prior judicial authorisation. he also challenged the authenticity of the recordings. on 27 september 2004 the leninskiy district court of ivanovo convicted the applicant of abuse of power and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. the court relied on statements by several witnesses, physical evidence, expert reports and the video recordings of the applicant’s telephone conversations. it found that the video recordings were authentic and that they had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. he reiterated, in particular, his argument that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence. on 12 november 2004 the ivanovo regional court upheld the conviction on appeal. the court held that the district court had correctly declared the video recordings admissible as evidence because they had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in sarajevo. in 1999 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against his employer, the local police, seeking his reinstatement and damages. the first-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo municipal court on 17 april 2006. the second-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo cantonal court on 27 march 2008. the third-instance judgment was rendered by the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina on 26 january 2010. on 19 april 2010 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 1 about the outcome and length of his labour dispute. on 10 april 2013 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time and rejected the remainder of the case.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in the krasnoyarsk region. at the material time the applicant was a police officer with the economic crimes department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region. on 31 july 2008 a certain mr p. complained to the internal security department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region (“the internal security department”) that the applicant had extorted money from him. in particular, the applicant had asked for money in exchange for assisting him, through his contacts in the regional government, in obtaining a licence for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages. mr p. gave the internal security department a recording he had made of his telephone conversation with the applicant earlier the same day. during that conversation the applicant had asked mr p. to bring him money before 2 august 2008. on the same day the head of the internal security department ordered an operative experiment in respect of the applicant with the use of audio and video recording devices. at the request of the police officer the money must be delivered in the period from 31 july to 2 august 2008; the exact time and place for delivering the money is to be agreed in advance by telephone [telephone number] given by [the applicant]. the applicant and mr p. met in the applicant’s car, where mr p. left the marked money. immediately after mr p. had left, the applicant was arrested by the police, his car was searched and the money was seized. on 28 october 2008, in reply to a request from the applicant for an expert examination of the recordings of his telephone conversations and the video recordings of his meeting with mr p., the investigator in charge of the case held, in so far as relevant, as follows:
“... [the applicant’s] guilt for the criminal offence under article 159 § 3 ... is completely proven by the preponderance of evidence collected.” identical statements were made by the investigator in his decisions of 7 november and 12 december 2008 and 1 april 2009 rejecting various complaints lodged by the applicant. the interception of the applicant’s telephone communications had therefore been lawful. on 7 december 2009 the tsentralnyy district court declared the audio and video recordings admissible as evidence. the operational-search measure against [the applicant] was carried out in conditions of urgency. the court agrees with [the applicant] that the case file does not contain a judicial decision authorising operational-search measures. at the same time it notes that a judge was informed about the operational-search measures within twenty-four hours and the measures were discontinued within forty-eight hours of their commencement, as required by section 8(3) of the osaa. no judicial refusal of authorisation was received. the court based its judgment on the statements of numerous witnesses, material evidence, expert opinions, and the audio and video recordings made on 31 july and 1 august 2008. he also contested the authenticity of the recordings.
on 12 april 2002 the local police sent to the local investigations committee audio recordings of telephone conversations between the applicant and several persons, and video recordings of their meetings in a flat in novgorod. the applicant learned about the audio and video recordings on an unspecified date while studying the criminal case file. the hearing of 16 september 2002 was adjourned until 23 september 2002 because the applicant’s counsel was in hospital and because the prosecution witnesses did not appear. in his appeal submissions the applicant complained, in particular, that the audio and video recordings had been obtained without prior judicial authorisation. on 29 october 2004, while studying the criminal case file, the applicant discovered that it contained audio recordings of his telephone conversations during the period from november 2003 to march 2004. during the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. he argued, in particular, that the audio and video recordings were inadmissible as evidence because the case file did not contain a copy of the judicial authorisation. a copy of the authorisation had not been included in the case file because it was confidential. the applicant was absent from the hearing but his counsel attended. on 14 july 2006 the vladimir regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 3 november 2006 the frunzenskiy district court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 january 2007. on 7 november 2006 the applicant appealed. the applicant’s detention was further extended on several more occasions. from 25 to 28 september 2006 the applicant was held in remand prison 76/1 in yaroslavl. m was equipped with seven sleeping places and accommodated up to eight inmates. on 28 and 29 september 2006 the applicant was transported by rail between remand prison iz-76/1 and remand prison iz-43/1 from yaroslavl to kirov. the train compartment was equipped with seven sleeping places and accommodated up to twelve inmates. on the same day the investigator refused his request. the vladimir regional court’s decisions of 28 may and 2 june 2004 authorising interception of the applicant’s telephone communications were stored by the local police. relying on section 12 of the operational-search activities act (see paragraph 49 below), the court held that the judicial decision authorising operational-search measures and the material that served as a basis for that decision were to be held in the exclusive possession of the state agency performing such measures.
between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis. considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation. on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,200,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,600,000 for non‑pecuniary damage. no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit. the judgments became final but have never been executed. on different dates the town court granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal on the grounds that the authorities had not received a copy of the judgment in due course. subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in murmansk. the applicant] is the leader of the gang. operational-search measures have revealed that [the applicant] uses mobile phone number ...-49. however, well aware that the applicant had committed serious criminal offences, g. had advised him what to do. on 11 october 2004 the criminal case against the applicant and his accomplices was transferred to the murmansk regional court for trial. a preliminary hearing was held on 21 and 22 october 2004. be admitted as his defence counsel instead of the legal aid lawyer. on 30 november 2004 the murmansk regional court found that the legal services agreement of 25 december 2003 stated that g. was to provide the applicant with legal assistance in the framework of criminal proceedings, without clearly identifying the criminal proceedings to which it related. the investigator had not been informed about that agreement. that gave reasons to doubt that g. had been representing the applicant at the time in the present criminal proceedings. the applicant could raise the complaint before the trial court. having analysed the transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with g., it held as follows:
“the lawyer had not been formally admitted to provide legal assistance to [the applicant] at the time [when the interception had taken place]. according to the applicant, the extension of his detention had been based solely on the gravity of the charges against him. on 11 august, 9 november and 15 december 2005 and 30 march 2006 the supreme court upheld the above extension orders on appeal, referring to the gravity of the charges and the risks of the applicant absconding or putting pressure on witnesses. iz-35/2 in vologda from 12 to 17 october 2006; and in remand prison no. iz-35/2 in vologda, and selected pages from the prison population register for the period of detention in remand prison no. period of detention
surface area
(in square metres)
number of inmates
number of beds
remand prison iz-51/1 (sizo-1) in murmansk
 
331
30 december 2003 to 5 january 2004 49. the space available to him throughout the detention period had been below the domestic standards. there had been a table measuring 1 m by 0.3 m but no benches or chairs to sit on. during the transfers the applicant was duly provided with dry food rations; he was given permission to use hot water and the toilet.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the first and second applicants’ son was killed in a traffic accident on 17 july 2010 in which the fourth applicant sustained serious injuries. the third applicant is the fourth applicant’s mother. the applicants joined the criminal proceedings concerning the accident as victims. the report stated that the applicants had been informed of their rights under the settlement procedure and set out the consequences of applying the settlement procedure. at that time, the applicants had submitted neither an itemised list of legal costs nor any supporting documents. on 14 february 2011 the harju county court committed j. for trial and scheduled a hearing for 7 march 2011. j., his counsel and the prosecutor were summoned to appear at the court hearing. the applicants, however, were not summoned. the harju county court received their submission on 7 march 2011. according to the court record, the trial judge disclosed the applicants’ claim for reimbursement of their legal costs. the applicants alleged that they had not been allowed to address the court notwithstanding their presence in the court building. the applicants lodged an appeal against that judgment. on 23 march 2011 the harju county court refused to examine the appeal. at a public hearing on 5 april 2011 the tallinn court of appeal examined the appeal in the presence of j. and his counsel, the prosecutor and the applicants’ counsel. the report stated that j. had wanted to submit the out-of-court settlement agreement to the judge in order to prove that it covered all the relevant damages. it referred to article 243 of the ccrp, under which the victim was not entitled to revoke his or her consent to the application of the settlement procedure, and to article 246 of the code, which provided that the victim did not have to be summoned to a court hearing in settlement proceedings (see paragraphs 28 and 29 below). although the court of appeal’s decision stated that it was final and not amenable to appeal, the applicants’ counsel nevertheless challenged it before the supreme court. by a decision of 3 october 2011 in case no. it must also verify whether there were still questions that should be addressed in the subsequent judgment, but which had not been included in the settlement agreement.
he travelled to tajikistan on a number of occasions to visit his parents for short periods of time. on 3 may 2011 the applicant was charged in absentia in tajikistan with participating in an extremist religious movement, the islamic movement of uzbekistan, and an international search and arrest warrant was issued in his name. on 6 may 2011 the tajik authorities ordered his pre-trial detention. on 3 november 2013 the applicant was arrested in moscow and detained. on 4 november 2013 the meshchanskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) ordered his detention pending extradition. the request included assurances regarding his proper treatment, which were formulated in standard terms. on 12 december 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 may 2014. an appeal by the applicant of 16 december 2013 was dismissed by the moscow city court (“the city court”) on 3 february 2014. on 29 april 2014 the district court again extended the applicant’s detention until 3 august 2014. an appeal by the applicant of 5 may 2014 was dismissed by the city court on 23 july 2014. on 13 october 2014 the applicant was released from detention. on 13 october 2014, immediately after his release, the applicant was rearrested for violating migration regulations. on 14 october 2014 the district court found the applicant guilty of violating migration regulations, fined him and ordered his administrative removal. allegations by the applicant regarding a real risk of ill-treatment were dismissed, and he was detained pending expulsion. the above judgment was upheld on appeal by the city court on 24 october 2014. claims by the applicant under article 3 of the convention were dismissed with reference to the district court’s assessment of the case, which took into consideration “...the nature of the administrative offence, the character of the accused [who was criminally convicted in russia]... the length of his stay in russia and other circumstances of the case”. according to the latest submissions of his representative in 2015, the applicant was still in detention. on 15 september 2014 his request was refused by a final administrative decision of the migration authorities. the applicant challenged that decision in the courts, referring, inter alia, to the risk of ill‑treatment. on 12 november 2015 his appeals were dismissed by a final decision of the city court.
the first applicant was born in 1969 and lives in illertissen. the second applicant was born in 1989 and lives in harburg. on 9 december 2007 both applicants went to a football match in munich. the officers of the munich riot control unit were dressed in black/dark blue uniforms and wore black helmets with visors. both uniforms did not include any name tags or other signs identifying the individual officers. the cordon was lifted after around fifteen minutes. while walking between the exit of the stands and the exit of the football stadium a group of police officers dressed in black uniforms came running towards the exiting spectators with their truncheons raised above their heads. the second applicant also exited the stands after the blockade had been lifted. he lay down on the ground and was subsequently struck on his left upper arm with a truncheon. the supporters’ conduct resulted in the arrest of one supporter and two police officers sustained minor injuries. in an article of 18 december 2007 a spokesperson of the police commented on the operation and stated that the alleged assaults by police officers would be investigated. on 21 january 2008 the second applicant reported the alleged police violence and submitted a medical certificate concerning the effects of the pepper spray on his face from the same day. the certificate was issued at 12.05 a.m. on 10 december 2007. in line with their usual procedure the entire recorded video material was reviewed by the respective video officer after his or her deployment and the parts which were deemed relevant under criminal law and of sufficient quality to serve as evidence were copied to a dvd. on 10 september 2008 the competent public prosecutor discontinued the investigation. however, he concluded that the investigation had not led to a situation where concrete acts of violence could be related to specific police officers and it could not be ascertained either whether the use of force had been justified. in a detailed fifteen-page decision he first summarised the investigative measures taken, referring in particular to the interviews of several witnesses, including police officers and the alleged victims, the review of video material from the police and from the internet, the assessment of the applicants’ written observations and of the submitted documents, inter alia, medical certificates, as well as gathered information and reports on past events and applicable guidelines. after assessing all the available evidence, the public prosecutor concluded that the enquiries had shown that several supporters had aggressively approached, insulted and provoked the deployed police officers and that therefore a situation had existed in which the officers could have been justified in using their truncheons. on 19 september 2011 the munich court of appeal declared the applicants’ application to force further enquiries inadmissible. the court also emphasised that the public prosecutor’s office had been the responsible authority for the investigation and thereby “master of the proceedings” (herr des verfahrens).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in riga. the next day civil proceedings were instituted in that connection. the applicant disagreed; she argued that she did not owe any money to the plaintiff – they had not concluded an agreement for maintenance services and she was free to choose another service provider. on 30 december 2005 a judge of the riga city kurzeme district court (rīgas pilsētas kurzemes rajona tiesa – hereinafter “the city court”) scheduled the first hearing to take place on 21 april 2006. during this hearing the applicant’s representative requested additional time to examine the relevant legal norms and to obtain the relevant documents from the plaintiff. on 9 august 2006 the plaintiff applied to have the hearing postponed because the applicant’s debt for services had in the meantime increased and the plaintiff had not yet settled the courts fees for the increased claim. the applicant’s representative requested that more detailed information be provided in this connection. the application was granted and the next hearing was scheduled for 14 february 2008. he argued that the service charges which the applicant had been asked to settle had been unclear. the plaintiff did not have all the relevant documents at hand and thus requested time to submit additional information. the city court ordered the plaintiff to submit the specific documents and scheduled the next hearing for 17 april 2008. on 17 april 2008 the plaintiff submitted the relevant documents and the applicant’s representative applied to have the hearing postponed to examine them. the parties continued to plead their case in the hearing of 4 june 2008. the city court imposed a monetary fine on the applicant’s representative for disobeying a judge’s order. on 27 november 2008 the plaintiff appealed against the judgment. the first hearing before the regional court was held on 13 september 2010. the plaintiff increased the amount of the claim because the applicant’s debt for services had in the meantime increased to lvl 3,173 (approximately eur 4,515) and submitted the relevant documents. she could contest bills provided by the plaintiff, however she had failed to do so. the applicant had selectively paid some bills, but not all of them. on 3 april 2012 the senate of the supreme court, following a preparatory meeting, refused to institute proceedings on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in manisa. 14350/05 and 2 others, § 16, 17 november 2015 for further details regarding that earthquake). were questioned by the police and the düzce public prosecutor, respectively. they denied all accusations in respect of the collapse of the building. it was also noted that the metal brackets had not been properly fastened to the girders. in view of the special judicial procedures that had to be followed in respect of the prosecution of civil servants under the law on the prosecution of civil servants and public officials (law no. in respect of the deaths caused by the collapse of the building in question on 17 august 1999. on this basis, the experts concluded that h.e. bore 25% and 37.5% responsibility for the collapse of the building. on 21 october 2002 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court. it held that the statutory time-limit was to be calculated from the date on which the building collapsed, that is to say from 17 august 1999, the date on which the offence in question had been committed. on 6 july 2004 the court of cassation once again quashed the first‑instance court’s judgment, this time as the court had not taken any decision as regards the applicant’s request to join the proceedings as a civil party in respect of the case subsequently brought against t.a. on 7 june 2005 the düzce assize court convicted h.e., as charged, and sentenced each of them, once again, to 10 months’ imprisonment and a fine. relying on the findings of the later expert report as regards the responsibility of the municipal officials for the collapse of the building, it also decided that a criminal complaint should be filed against the relevant officials with the düzce public prosecutor’s office. the defendant h.e lodged an appeal against this judgment. 5237) which had entered into force on 1 june 2005. was null and void, since the earlier judgment of 7 june 2005 had already become final in their regard as they had not lodged an appeal. the building had, moreover, been illegally extended after its construction. in the meantime, the municipality appealed against the judgment of the sakarya administrative court.
by five judgments of the travnik municipal court (“the municipal court”) of 5 march 2009, 18 january 2012, 31 march 2010, 30 april 2012 and 13 june 2011, which became final on 17 june 2010, 13 february 2012, 1 september 2010, 12 march 2013 and 21 july 2011, respectively, the central bosnia canton (srednjobosanski kanton, “the cb canton”; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicants various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs. the writs of execution issued by the municipal court on 23 september 2010, 14 june 2012, 4 october 2010, 13 february 2013 and 25 october 2011, respectively, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the municipal court that the enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. the applicants complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). ap 3438/12) and 26 february 2015 (decision no. 1 to the convention in the applicants’ and five other cases, on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour. although some of the applicants submitted a claim for non-pecuniary damages, the constitutional court did not award any compensation. the relevant part of the decision of 17 september 2014 reads as follows:
“36. the constitutional court reiterates that under the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 1 of the european convention all levels of government must secure respect for individual human rights, including the right to enforcement of final judgments under article 6 § 1 of the convention and the right to property under article 1 of protocol no. admittedly, a delay in the execution of a judgment may be justified in particular circumstances, but the delay may not be such as to impair the essence of the right protected under article 6 § 1’ ... 40. section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ...
... 42. the court finds that the crux of the problem in the present case is that the cb canton did not identify the exact number of unenforced judgments and the aggregate debt ... without which it is impossible to know when all the creditors will realise their claims against this canton. it should include the enforcement time-frame and a list of partial payments, if any. this will also help to avoid abuses of the enforcement procedure. however, the limitation of the enforcement in the present case is contrary to the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 1 of protocol no. in order to comply with its positive obligation, the government of the cb canton must, as explained above, calculate the total amount of the aggregate debt arising from the final judgments and prepare a comprehensive and transparent database ... this court will not specify what a reasonable time-limit should be ... but, in any event, it must be in accordance with article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no. they renounced the remaining principal claim and default interest. the legal costs were to be settled by a separate agreement. from the information available in the case it transpires that no such agreement has been concluded. as regards the rest of the applicants, the final judgments in their favour have not yet been enforced.
the applicants are turkish nationals, whose dates of birth and places of residence are shown in the appendix. they all own plots of land located in different cities of turkey. following local land development plans, the applicants’ plots of land were designated for public use. subsequently, complaining about the decrease in the market value of the land and the long-term uncertainty about the fate of their plots of land, the applicants initiated compensation proceedings before the civil courts. during the proceedings relating to their land, the applicants submitted the decision given by the plenary chamber of the court of cassation (civil divisions, numbered e.2004/5-555 k.2005/17) to the domestic courts and asserted that according to this decision their compensation claims had to be accepted. on various dates between 2007 and 2010, the applicants’ respective claims for compensation were dismissed by the domestic courts on the ground that their plots of land were not actually seized by the authorities. in their decisions, neither the courts of first instance nor fifth civil division of the court of cassation, which examined the applicants’ claims on cassation, expressed any reason as to why they had reached a different conclusion from the plenary court of cassation. the details of the proceedings may be found in the appended table.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lived, prior to his arrest and conviction, in moscow. on an unspecified date the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having murdered ch. he was charged with unlawful purchase and possession of firearms and aggravated murder. on 11 july 2006 the investigator questioned sh., identified the applicant as the perpetrator. was admitted to hospital and was unable to attend the trial. on 28 march 2007 the trial by a jury opened in the moscow city court. on 10 april 2007 the jury returned a guilty verdict. the twelve jurors held the applicant responsible for the murder by ten votes to two, and for unlawful possession of firearms by nine votes to three. by a judgment of 13 april 2007, the moscow city court sentenced the applicant to eighteen years’ imprisonment. ’s statement had been read out during the trial in contravention of the applicable rules of criminal procedure. on 28 april 2007 he lodged a supplementary statement of appeal “in connection with newly discovered circumstances”. he wrote that he had found out that on several occasions the presiding judge had entered the room where the jurors had been deliberating and advised them to declare him guilty. who had presided over the applicant’s trial, refused to amend the minutes of the trial to take note of the applicant’s statement that the judge had been present during the jury’s deliberations, had advised them as to how to fill out the questionnaire and had made comments about the applicant’s character and guilt. on 21 may 2007 the applicant’s representative obtained a statement, certified by a notary public from n., a juror. the juror stated that during the trial the presiding judge sht. on 5 june 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal. it follows from the trial record that the defence did not object to the actions of the presiding judge and did not allege any breach of confidentiality of jury deliberations. who did not appear in court on account of her undergoing treatment in hospital. neither [the applicant] nor his counsel questioned the authenticity of the medical certificate submitted by sh.
the writs of execution issued on 2 march 2007, 5 april 2010, 2 march 2010, 14 december 2010 and 24 june 2008, respectively, by the zenica municipal court and the tešanj municipal court, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the competent courts that enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. on 12 july 2008 the first applicant, mr suljo kunić, complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). ap 2110/08) the constitutional court found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention in mr suljo kunić’s and ten other cases on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in the appellants’ favour. it ordered the government of the zenica-doboj canton to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of the cantonal debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:
“39. ... the court notes that the judgments [in favour of the appellants] have not been enforced due to the lack of funds on the debtor’s bank account. the constitutional court reiterates that under the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina and article 1 of the european convention all levels of government must secure respect for individual human rights, including the right to enforcement of final judgments under article 6 § 1 of the convention and the right to property under article 1 of protocol no. admittedly, a delay in the execution of a judgment may be justified in particular circumstances, but the delay may not be such as to impair the essence of the right protected under article 6 § 1’ ... 46. section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ... in 2010 and 2011 the amount of funds for that purpose in the budget of the zenica-doboj canton was 100,000 convertible marks. the court finds that the crux of the problem in the present case is that the zenica-doboj canton did not identify the exact number of unenforced judgments and the aggregate debt ... without which it is impossible to know when all the creditors will realise their claims against this canton. furthemore, there should exist a centralised and transparent database of all the claims listed in chronological order according to the time the judgments became final. it should include the enforcement time-frame and a list of partial payments, if any. this will also help to avoid abuses of the enforcement procedure. however, the limitation of the enforcement in the present case is contrary to the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 1 of protocol no. in order to comply with its positive obligation, the government of the zenica-doboj canton must, as explained above, calculate the total amount of the aggregate debt arising from the final judgments and prepare a comprehensive and transparent database ... this court will not specify what a reasonable time-limit should be ... but, in any event, it must be in accordance with article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no. ... the current situation does not give any guarantees to the appellants that their claims against the zenica-doboj canton will be enforced within a reasonable time.” on 16 january 2013 the constitutional court adopted a procedural decision to the effect that its decision of 12 october 2011 and eight other decisions on the same matter in cases concerning various individual appellants (see paragraph 15 below) had not been enforced. the final judgments in the applicants’ favour have not yet been enforced.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in mardin. an incident report regarding events that took place between 28 march and 1 april 2006 was prepared on 3 april 2006 by the police and was signed by more than 220 officers. the crowd then walked to a cemetery for the burial of the deceased. however, the crowd became agitated and started throwing stones at the police officers on duty, injuring a number of them and causing extensive damage to state buildings and vehicles, banks, shops and other vehicles belonging to private individuals. on 5 march 2007 a demonstration was held on the campus of dicle university to protest about the conditions of abdullah öcalan’s detention, and in particular about his alleged poisoning by the turkish authorities. on the same day, the applicant made a statement to the diyarbakır public prosecutor. the applicant was brought before a judge of the diyarbakır assize court later that day. 5237), on the basis of articles 220 § 6 and 314 § 3 of the same code. the public prosecutor also noted that the applicant had supported the chanting of slogans in favour of the pkk by applauding during the demonstration of 5 march 2007. in the first recording, the applicant was seen in a crowd next to a coffin making a “v” sign. in the third recording, the applicant was seen applauding with other students. on 19 june 2007 the diyarbakır assize court held the first hearing during which the applicant made defence submissions. he accepted that he was the person in the photographs. 3713, for which he received a sentence of a total of one year and eight months’ imprisonment. in its judgment, the assize court observed, on the basis of the police video recordings and the photographs extracted from those recordings, that the applicant had attended the funeral of four pkk militants on 28 march 2006; that he had walked in front of one of the coffins during the funeral; and that he had made a “v” sign. they had subsequently turned into propaganda events in favour of the pkk and had become illegal demonstrations. hence, the court found it established that the applicant had acted with the intention of supporting the deceased on 28 march 2006 and had acted together with illegal demonstrators on 5 march 2007, thereby committing the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and its leader. in his dissenting opinion, the judge stated that neither article 220 § 6 of the criminal code nor the explanatory memorandum on article 220 § 6 explained the concept of committing an offence on behalf of an illegal organisation. on 14 december 2012 the diyarbakır assize court decided to suspend the criminal proceedings against the applicant under section 7(2) of law no. 6352, which had entered into force on 5 july 2012.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in yerevan. nearly unconscious, with impaired breathing and low blood pressure. chose not to sit beside her during the journey to hospital, but instead sat beside the driver in the driver’s cab. on 26 november 2007 the ambulance nurse and a.g. according to the results of the opinion (forensic medical opinion no. 89) produced on 14 january 2008, the injection of relanium 2 mg and magnesium 3 g by the ambulance crew had been correct at the given moment, taking into account the patient’s condition − that is to say convulsion syndrome − and the injection of the given quantity of those substances was not contra-indicated. on 27 february 2008 the investigator decided to reject the institution of criminal proceedings for lack of corpus delicti. ’s pregnancy, impaired breathing and low blood pressure. ’s condition and whether it should have been administered by the ambulance crew or in hospital. whether the medical treatment had been appropriate and sufficient or whether omissions had occurred and, if so, who had been responsible for them. the scientific methods on which forensic medical opinion no. the ambulance driver had not carried the patient downstairs and had not assisted in putting her in the ambulance. the investigator’s conclusion was therefore that the ambulance crew had arrived after a serious delay and had not provided proper medical assistance. on 30 april 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the avan and nor-nork district court of yerevan concerning the investigator’s decision of 25 april 2008 seeking the institution of criminal proceedings against a.g. the applicant submitted, in particular, that the panel of experts performing the additional forensic medical investigation had not taken due account of his arguments, which had been based on relevant medical literature and government decrees. as regards the late arrival of the ambulance, incorrect completion of the visit record and the doctor’s failure to sit beside the patient during the journey to the hospital, the district court referred to the fact that a.g. had been reprimanded for poor performance of her duties. on 16 july 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision with the criminal court of appeal. with substances that were contra-indicated, given her condition, or the over-dosage thereof which, he alleged, had caused her death. as regards the applicant’s arguments with regard to the contra‑indication of medical substances administered by injection to k.m.,
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in hamburg. was dismissed by the vienna federal asylum office (bundesasylamt) on 6 june 2005. was in a good general state and was fit for detention. until 1 october 2005, no anomalies were detected. according to a report drawn up by the treating doctor on 4 october 2005, it was “not possible to assess the intake of liquids”, “communication [was] difficult” because y.c. to the hospital on the day of his death; the police doctor who had examined y.c. against his will; and that the calculation of y.c. had still been alive caused by a lack of hydration. as concerns the hunger strike, dr h. stated that it was likely that y.c. rather, it was more likely that a shift in the electrolyte system had commenced over a period of several days, as indicated by the results of the blood test conducted by linz general hospital on 4 october 2005. ’s blood (conducted in the course of the autopsy) had shown that he had been a carrier of sickle cell trait (sichelzellanlage). ’s, symptoms of sickle cell disease only manifested themselves if there were further damaging external factors, such as dehydration or a lack of oxygen. should not have continued to be kept in detention because he had no longer been fit to be detained on account of his hunger strike. on 13 february 2006 the competent member of the iap held a hearing during which he examined as witnesses the applicant, a cellmate of y.c., until his death had also stated during the iap hearing that he had not appeared to be ill or weak, but that on the contrary, even on the day of his death he had seemed athletic and strong; which had been corroborated by photographs taken of his dead body and its description by dr h. in the autopsy report (see paragraph 30 above). during the checks, he had had to make sure that the detainee reacted when spoken to. on 12 september 2005, the day on which y.c. on 1 april 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the european court of human rights concerning the above-mentioned judgment of the administrative court; it was registered as ceesay v. austria (no. 17208/08 inadmissible, pursuant to article 35 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention, as the proceedings were still pending before the iap and the complaints lodged by the applicant with the court were therefore premature. ’s critical weight, he stated that he was inclined to believe that y.c.
the applicant was born in 1970 and is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant has been involved in various political organisations and local and international non-governmental organisations for a number of years. - the cause of the events is the general tension arising from corruption and insolence [of public officials]. a day before posting the above in his blog, on his way back by car from ismayilli to baku on 24 january 2013, between 5.41 and 5.46 p.m. the applicant gave a live interview to azadliq radio by phone, stating in particular as follows (as quoted in the domestic courts’ judgments):
“our impressions are such that, after the quba events, this is the most serious warning to the azerbaijani leadership that the state can no longer be governed in this manner. on 30 january 2013 the applicant commented on that statement on his blog. pleaded not guilty and alleged that he had been beaten by investigators at the pre-trial stage with the purpose of obtaining a statement favorable to the prosecution. there were also many journalists waiting to interview the head of idea. see paragraph 58 below) had gone to ismayilli by car. a senior police officer of the ismayilli rpd, gave a lengthy statement about the events of 23 january 2013. according to the documents in the case file, at least three of them stated that the people moved to the area close to the regional education department along the “hospital road”, which was the informal name for m.f. the government did not submit the transcripts reflecting the statements of this witness at the trial and did not otherwise comment on the above allegation by the applicant. the court questioned four police officers named by the accused in connection with the alleged ill-treatment, all of whom denied that the accused had been ill-treated. lastly, the video showed the police using a water cannon against the crowd and the protesters dispersing in various directions. the description of the above recordings did not specify the time of day when those scenes had been shot. at the hearing held on 13 january 2014 one of the applicant’s lawyers, mr f. agayev, lodged a second objection to the composition of the court, arguing, inter alia, that the court was biased: it had rejected all of the defence’s requests and created obstacles to the proper questioning of “fake witnesses” by the defence. stated that, after he had greeted [the applicant], he had gone to sleep in the car and, in fact, had not known the whereabouts of [the applicant and tofiq yaqbulu] during that period of time. [ see paragraphs 52-56 above) indicated that between about 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. on 24 january 2013 there was mass disorder in front of the building of the regional education department and that the applicant and tofiq yaqublu had incited people to riot and resist the police. as to the video evidence originally examined by the first-instance court, the sheki court of appeal mentioned the video recording showing the applicant and tofiq yaqublu “standing in the centre of the town of ismayilli, opposite to the administrative building of the education department, at a place where acts of mass disorder had been committed”, without specifying the time of day when that scene had been shot (see paragraphs 69 and 103 above). who had participated, as an attesting witness, in the inspection of the scene of the events [of the previous night] from 10 a.m. to 4.10 p.m. on 24 january 2013, and had later testified that at around 5 p.m. on the same day he had seen [the applicant and tofiq yaqublu inciting people to commit acts of disorder]. [ after the proceedings at the sheki court of appeal, on 25 september 2014 the presiding judge of that court also sent letters to the bar association requesting that it take disciplinary measures against both lawyers, stating that they had behaved similarly throughout the appellate proceedings.
the ohrid archdiocese (охридска архиепископија), in its original form, existed until 1767, when it was abolished by the turkish sultan. the government submitted that that had provoked a public reaction and that there had been street protests in several cities in the respondent state. on 25 december 2003 the applicant association constituted its own holy synod and appointed mr vraniškovski as its president. in support of the application, the applicant association submitted the following documents: (a) a founding decision of 1 september 2004 rendered by its holy synod. its aim was to acquire legal-entity status and to manage its property. that the applicant association would operate as part of a foreign orthodox church was, in the commission’s view, in violation of section 12 of the 1997 act. in its decision of 3 november 2004, the commission further referred to several international documents and a declaration that the parliament of the respondent state adopted in 2004 regarding the moc (see paragraph 51 below). on 9 november 2005 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s claim. it is an autonomous church under jurisdiction of the peć patriarchy, notably the serbian orthodox church ...” 20. according to “the minutes of the constituent assembly” (записник од основачкото собрание) “... at the proposal of his beatitude (неговото блаженство), the archbishop of ohrid and metropolitan of skopje mr jovan (vraniškovski), the holy synod of the orthodox ohrid archdiocese composed of (bishops j., m., and d., all macedonian nationals) convened a meeting on 27 april 2009 in order to adopt decisions for setting up and registration of “the greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy”. bishop d. was authorised to submit the application for registration. on 28 april 2009 bishop d. submitted an application for registration of the “greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy” as “one of the churches” in the respondent state. if registration was granted “it would operate in the territory of the respondent state as part of a foreign orthodox church ... it would operate and be managed autonomously within the canonical jurisdiction of the peć patriarchy, notably (the soc) ... which had no canonical or any other jurisdiction over (the moc) or in the territory of (the respondent state).” in this connection, the applicant submitted extracts from several media reports published at the time, according to which the competent body of the moc, at its meeting held on 4 and 5 october 2008, had refused to change the name in its constitution; (iii) that the moc had applied to the bureau for registration of the name “macedonian orthodox church-ohrid archdiocese” as a trademark was irrelevant, since the industrial property act concerned goods and services and not religious organisations. it further submitted that the court had allowed registration of two churches despite the fact that their names were substantially the same, namely “christian adventist church (church of the adventists of the seventh day) in the republic of macedonia” and “christian adventist church in macedonia”. on an unspecified date thereafter, d.n. ( he further argued that without legal-entity status the applicant association was prevented from enjoying certain statutory rights: it could not construct religious temples; its members could not conduct religious ceremonies; it could not instruct religion or create religious schools; and it could not manage its property, nor could it hold bank accounts. referring to the courts’ decisions rejecting the applicant association’s request for registration as “greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy” and relying on articles 9, 16 and 19 of the constitution and article 9 of the convention, the court stated:
“the court cannot examine the appeal on the merits since the complainant did not comply with the formal statutory requirements before a competent court (for registration of the applicant). the complainant was not a priori refused registration of his religious community by a final judicial decision. schismatics and renegades should be marginalised, isolated and rejected.
the applicants are the brother and the parents of mr costas tsalikidis, who was found dead on 9 march 2005. mr tsalikidis was network planning manager for v., a mobile phone operator. on 9 march 2005 he was found dead in his apartment by his mother (the second applicant). he did not conduct a search for fingerprints. the rope mark encircled the cervical spine with a knot at the right of the occiput (κυκλικά φερόμενη με κόμπο στη δεξιά ινιακή χώρα). the hyoid bone and larynx appeared normal. in her testimonies dated 12 and 17 march 2005 and 7 february 2006, his fiancée stated that she had spoken twice with him on the phone the night preceding his death without noticing anything particular. following a parliamentary investigation, it was made known that the unauthorised spyware had been implanted in a software provided by company e. to phone operator v. mr tsalikidis had been responsible for accepting the software from e. on behalf of v. and met representatives from e. on a monthly basis in order to discuss new versions of the software and other technical issues. a senior manager with v., ordered that the newly discovered software be deactivated and removed from its systems. these include (1) photograph of the suspensory knot – it is a complex knot, and definitely not the sort of knots seen in routine suicides. no attempt whatsoever was made to identify the time of death... no fibres were taken from the ligature for identification and no tissue taken from the ligature were taken for microscopic examination. no damage was seen within the neck, which is worrisome. damage to the lining of the great vessels in the neck is a frequent finding in strangulation, but that examination was never performed (in fact, no microscopic examination was performed). the medical examiner commented on the presence of pulmonary oedema. the fact that there was minimal suspension does not rule out suicide. the second evidence adduced by the applicants was an undated report produced at the applicants’ request by coroner th.v. in particular, he stressed the absence of signs usually found in cases of hanging, that is to say cyanosis of the face, oedema of the face, and projection of the tongue, all of which were not present in this case. 865/25-11-2013 on the exhumed body, drawn up on 25 november 2013 by the forensic and toxicology laboratory of the school of medicine of athens university, the results were negative as regards the presence of poison or medication. on the basis of the above-mentioned findings, the three coroners each prepared a new forensic report. his report dated 12 april 2012 stated that the deceased did not betray any of the personality characteristics associated with a suicide risk.
the first applicant is a french national who was born in 1970 and lives in mouroux. on 12 november 2009, at about 4.30 p.m., m.b., who was 1 m 80 tall and weighed about 100 kilos, went into a pharmacy in valentigney. he was known to the staff there, where he habitually went to collect the medicine prescribed for his psychiatric disorders. when he vehemently refused, sergeant l. and constable d. seized him by the arm in order to remove him from the pharmacy. deputy police sergeant p. went to get the police vehicle to move it closer to the pharmacy. he added that the police officers had then attempted to handcuff him and that when he had resisted attempts to put him in the police van constable d. had pulled his legs, which had unbalanced him and caused both of them and deputy police sergeant l. to fall over in the police van. had continued struggling, he himself had stood on his buttocks. deputy sergeant l. was also questioned on 13 november 2009. the other facial injuries suggested close contact on a rough surface. she said that she had seen four police officers with a man lying face down with his arms behind his back being punched and kicked. on 21 january 2010 chief brigadier m. d., an instructor in defence and arrest techniques and in the psychological and behavioural aspects of police intervention, was heard as a witness. he stated that in the event of a dispute between people, “the opposing parties should in so far as possible be separated”: the police officers, in attempting to induce the m.b. the officers had also acted in an emergency situation. ’s shoulders, as sergeant l. had done, was one of the procedures taught. that technique enabled the officer to prevent the suspect from moving while avoiding postural asphyxiation. on 21 december 2012 the investigating judges ruled that there was no case to answer. the judges considered that the force used by the police officers had been necessary and proportionate “even if being pinned down in the van, by l. and p. and m.’s position – standing on [m.b. had died suddenly of cardiac rhythm disorders owing to a coronary spasm triggered by a context of intense and prolonged emotional and physical stress, and formally ruled out mechanical asphyxia; lastly, the forensic and psychiatric expert ... concluded that [m.b.] the investigation division found that m.b.
the applicant company is a limited liability company registered in the town of kstovo, in the nizhegorodskiy region. in 2008 it changed its name to zemlyaki publishing house. the applicant company is the founder, editor and publisher of a local newspaper, zemlyaki, printed in kstovo and distributed in the kstovskiy district. in 2004 the applicant company published a series of articles commenting on the professional activity of y.l., in an article published in issue 11 (400) dated 6 march 2004 and entitled “success has turned his head” (“головокружение от успехов”), n.g., and the setting up of mts was entirely your initiative and [it is your] creation. the marmoset (мартышка) borrowed money from a bank to pay her debts. she did repay them, but afterwards the bank required her to pay back both the loan and interest. in another article concerning the same subject matter, this time in issue 13 (402) dated 20 march 2004, authored by z.o. the essence of the proposal is simple: ‘we could blow anything up. it is a pity that the employees of waste disposal services have not thought about this yet. or, more accurately, is going up in flames. complained about the articles to the kstovo city court. he claimed that the articles published in the applicant company’s newspaper had contained defamatory and damaging material. 13 (402) dated 20 march 2004 in the article ‘the golden grin awards’ is defamatory to the claimant’s honour, dignity and reputation; and in particular, in the article ‘success has turned his head’, the defendant n.g. in the russian language dictionary edited by a.p. considering the events of last year: terrorist acts in america, russia, spain, iraq, the world’s public opinion on bin laden as terrorist no. the court declared the information in question erroneous and defamatory, and ordered the applicant company to pay an amount of a symbolic value to the claimant in damages and publish a retraction phrased in the following terms:
“the editorial board of the [applicant company] offers its apologies to the head of the kstovo district administration, y.l., on 22 october 2004 the nizhegorodskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. this being so, the court judgment was taken lawfully and justifiably, there being no grounds to quash it...”.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1997 respectively and live in st petersburg. in 1998 the federal migration service (“the fms”) provided the applicants and the first applicant’s mother with a room in a three-room flat. on 8 november 2001 the fms deprived the first applicant of her status as a forced migrant on the grounds that she had not applied in due time for it to be extended. according to the first applicant, she was not informed of that decision until 2003. on 20 february and 8 may 2003 respectively the fms upheld its decision of 8 november 2001 and dismissed the first applicant’s request. in february 2009 the first applicant’s mother died. in july 2009 the fms ordered the applicants to vacate the room. in december 2009 the applicants were placed on the waiting list for social housing. on 19 january 2010 the applicant applied to the fms with a new request to re-establish her forced migrant status. on 3 november 2010 the primorskiy district court of st petersburg held that the decision of 25 january 2010 had been unlawful and had to be set aside. in particular, the court held that the first applicant had had valid reasons for missing the deadline for applying for an extension of her forced migrant status. in her complaint the first applicant had contested the decision of 25 january 2010 and therefore, it was irrelevant whether she had had valid reasons for missing the deadline for applying for an extension of her status. therefore, there were no grounds for declaring that decision unlawful. they had been on the waiting list for social housing since 2009. on 4 october 2012 the st petersburg city court upheld the eviction order. on 22 november 2012 the bailiff instituted enforcement proceedings with regard to the eviction order. the applicants were given five days to comply voluntarily with the judgment of 15 may 2012. on 13 may 2013 the first applicant asked the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg to provide her with alternative accommodation. her landlord had not registered her as living at the address of the rented room. she submitted that she had asked her former husband to register the second applicant as living in his flat by necessity, because the absence of registration had subjected him to everyday difficulties.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in dublin, ireland. in 2004 he married a slovak national and the couple settled in ireland. their two children, born in 2006 and 2008, are both irish nationals. on 6 january 2011 the mother travelled to slovakia with the two children and they have not returned to ireland since. the return order became enforceable on 8 july 2011. on 6 february 2012 the applicant applied for judicial enforcement of the return order since the mother had not complied with it. in response, she informed the district court that she had lodged a request with the prosecutor general for him to exercise his discretionary power to challenge the return order by way of an extraordinary appeal on points of law (mimoriadne dovolanie). firstly, they concluded that there already existed a previous decision on provisional measures, which had been delivered by the michalovce district court on 16 may 2011. those interim custody rights were to be determined later by the competent courts in ireland. secondly, the return order had failed to specify that it was directed at the mother or to give a precise time frame for its implementation. he referred to the shortcomings in the order as identified by the enforcement courts and asked the court to specify to whom the order had been directed and to provide a time frame for the return of the children. on 9 july 2014 the constitutional court declared the complaint admissible and on 27 may 2015 it found on the merits that the košice regional court had violated the applicant’s rights, as specified below (“the first constitutional judgment”). in addition, the constitutional court awarded the applicant everything he had claimed in legal costs (eur 276.94). the judgment was final and not amenable to appeal. following the first constitutional judgment, the enforcement proceedings resumed before the regional court, which heard the case on 3 august 2015. however, having regard to the considerable length of time that had elapsed, it deemed it necessary to assess afresh all the circumstances decisive for the enforcement of the return order, such as the children’s whereabouts, their health and the possibility of their returning to ireland. it therefore quashed the district court’s decision under appeal and remitted the matter to it for re-examination. on 15 april 2016 the district court again declared enforcement of the order impermissible on the basis of newly obtained evidence. 41615/07, echr 2010), it concluded that their return to ireland would go against their best interests. following an appeal by the applicant, the regional court upheld the lower court’s decision on 3 august 2016 and it became final and binding on 22 august 2016.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is currently being detained in a correctional colony in the village of torbeyevo, mordovia republic, russia. on 21 april 2005 the applicant was convicted during a public hearing of murder and was sentenced to imprisonment. he and his lawyer had had thirty-five minutes to study the case file, which consisted of five volumes. the conviction was upheld on appeal in a public hearing on 18 august 2005 (“the 2005 proceedings”). on 30 july 2010 the appeal judgment was quashed by way of a supervisory review (on grounds not related to the applicant’s article 6 complaints in respect of the 2005 proceedings) as the applicant’s right to defence had been breached during the appeal hearing. the case was sent for fresh examination on appeal. the applicant was allowed to re-read the case file within the new appeal proceedings. he and his lawyer had five days, from 4 to 8 october 2010, to study the now six-volume case file (about 1,500 pages) in remand prison no. iz-24/1 in krasnoyarsk, where the applicant was being detained. the applicant was allegedly held in a metal cage while studying the case, without a table or any other facilities to take notes. after studying the case file both the applicant and the lawyer filed appeals. in his appeal statements the applicant analysed the case materials in detail, referred extensively to all the main items of evidence, including expert opinions and witness testimony, and referred to exact pages in the case file. the applicant’s case was examined by the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) over four hearings, three of which (21 october, 30 november and 16 december 2010), according to the trial record and the court’s procedural decisions, were held in camera. the case file did not contain any formal decision by the supreme court to close the hearings to the public. the applicant was represented by two lawyers who confirmed to the court that they had had enough time to study the case file. on 16 december 2010 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 21 april 2005. the supreme court’s judgment was delivered to the remand prison, where the applicant was still being detained, on 11 january 2011 (“the 2010 proceedings”).
ms damani kaimova, ms maryam moldyyevna kaimova, and ms zarina tamiyevna maskhurova were born on 16 february 1953, 13 january 2005, and 18 september 1981, respectively. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. a standard treatment with first-line medication was prescribed. 1 in nizhnekamsk, where his tuberculosis was cured as confirmed by a medical board on 7 june 2009. treatment with second-line drugs was prescribed. in february and march 2010 doctors noted progression of the disease. at that time mr kaimov started coughing up blood. on 14 april 2010, in response to mr kaimov’s “negligent attitude towards his treatment”, a doctor talked to him about the importance of taking his drugs regularly. on 22 april and 1 may 2010 the doctor had repeated talks with him on the issue. on 22 april, 31 may and 8 june 2010 the doctor responsible for mr kaimov’s treatment again noted in the medical file that the patient was not taking his drugs as prescribed and insisted that he should follow medical instructions properly. the medical records were not signed by mr kaimov. four days later mr k., a lawyer working with the russian justice initiative, interviewed mr kaimov in the prison hospital. the first applicant did not allow an autopsy to take place. on 22 november 2010 mr k. asked the head of the investigative committee of the republic of tatarstan to investigate the circumstances of mr kaimov’s death. he pointed out that the detainee had complained of the lack of treatment in detention. on 6 december 2010, citing statements by ms i., the investigating authorities concluded that there had been no appearance of negligence on the part of the medical authorities. they decided not to open a criminal case. on 29 may 2011 the investigator refused to open a criminal case. in particular, a medical expert examination was to be performed. there is no further information about the outcome.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in yerevan. on 16 august 2004 he was charged with fraud in armenia and the kentron and nork-marash district court in yerevan issued an arrest warrant. on 8 november 2006 the applicant was arrested in ufa, russia. on an unspecified date the russian prosecutor general received an extradition request from his armenian counterpart. on an application a district prosecutor in ufa, on 27 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court in ufa remanded the applicant in custody, without setting a time-limit for his detention. on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of bashkortostan upheld the detention order on appeal. on 23 march 2007 a deputy prosecutor general granted the extradition request; on 17 july 2007 the supreme court of russia upheld that decision in final instance. on 24 august 2007 the applicant was extradited to armenia where he was acquitted of all charges and released. on 16 february 2008, when attempting to return to russia, the applicant was detained by the russian border control and held in custody until 22 february 2008. the parties did not produce a record of the applicant’s arrest or any judicial decision authorising his detention.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in ercsi. on 28 february 2007 the applicant filed an action with the székesfehérvár labour court against his former employer, claiming unlawful dismissal. on 6 june 2008 the court found in his favour and obliged the respondent to the action to pay him a severance payment, outstanding wages, a lump sum in compensation, and default interest. on appeal, on 25 february 2009 the fejér county regional court changed the judgment in part. in june 2009 the respondent filed a petition for review. in an order of 2 june 2010 the supreme court forwarded the respondent’s petition to the applicant and informed him that, within eight days of receiving the order, he could file comments on the respondent’s petition and/or request an oral hearing. on 7 june 2010 the applicant received the order, and on 14 june 2010 he dispatched his comments on the petition for review. the document was received by the supreme court on 17 june 2010. meanwhile, on 16 june 2010 the supreme court, sitting as a review court, had given a judgment in which it had reversed the previous decisions and dismissed the applicant’s action. the court stated that the applicant had not filed any comments on the petition for review. the applicant complained and addressed his complaint of 6 december 2010 to the president of the supreme court. the head of the civil division informed him that his comments on the petition for review had been belated.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in groznyy in the chechen republic. on 23 june 2012 the applicant was arrested in connection with a drug-related offence and placed in custody. on 14 august 2012 the oktyabrskiy district court of groznyy found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. on 14 november 2012 the supreme court of the chechen republic quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial. on 30 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court again convicted the applicant and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. the court stated that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged until the conviction [had become] final”. on 24 june 2013 counsel for the applicant asked the director of the remand prison to release the applicant since he had already served the one-year sentence. on the same day a judge of the district court faxed a letter to the director, informing him that the applicant should not be released until the supreme court had examined the matter on appeal since the district court ordered the preventive measure to remain unchanged. on 3 july 2013 the supreme court upheld the conviction and the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in zagreb. the chief officer on duty in the iv zagreb police station) and n.v. ( the deputy head of iv zagreb police station) were informed of the use of force against the applicant. of this and the latter ordered that the emergency medical service be called. the applicant told the doctor that he had fallen during his arrest. all these reports alleged that the applicant, in attempting to flee from the police officers, had fallen and that while on the ground had actively resisted the police officers, who had then applied the armlock technique and handcuffed him. was of the opinion that the force applied by officers v.b. on 21 december 2012 the head of iv police station in zagreb, s.t., stated that the applicant had said that he had fallen and that the police officers had caught him and applied force against him and denied that he had resisted arrest. on 28 december 2012 the head of the zagreb police informed the head of iv police station in zagreb that, on the basis of the report of a.l., he considered the force used by officers v.b. against the applicant to have had a “basis in law and [to have been] justified” 16. upon inspecting the file the internal control service instructed the police to forward the file to the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (hereinafter the “zmsao”) for further assessment. the officers had then taken him to a police station where they continued to beat him. the doctors had recommended urgent surgery but the police officers had not allowed it. in the evening he had been admitted to zagreb prison. on 13 october 2015 the zmsao interviewed the applicant, who said that during his arrest on 20 december 2012 one of the police officers, when applying the armlock technique, had broken his right arm. upon his arrival at the police station he had continued to complain about the pain in his arm, but had been ignored. she had also witnessed the applicant’s arrest and said that she had not seen the police officers hitting or kicking the applicant. on 13 january 2016 the zmsao interviewed b.z.,
the applicant was born in 1977 and at the material time was serving a sentence of imprisonment. the applicant did not appeal against his conviction. on 25 september 2007, in the second set of criminal proceedings, the applicant was found guilty of armed robbery and sentenced to thirteen years’ imprisonment. the court further decided that the aggregate term of imprisonment to be served pursuant to that judgment and the judgment of 14 june 2007 should be fixed at thirty years. further tests three months later were recommended. on 8, 9, 15 and 24 september 2008 the applicant applied to the prison authorities to be returned to the prison hospital “for serious health reasons”. on 10 november 2008 representatives of the public defender’s office visited the applicant, who complained of headaches. on 27 november 2008, after having examined the applicant, the neurologist diagnosed neurasthenia and post-traumatic encephalopathy. on 8 december 2008 the applicant staged a second hunger strike, requesting that he be transferred to the prison hospital. he maintained that, having suffered a serious head injury in the past, he was in need of a comprehensive inpatient examination of his head. he further complained that, although he was only being prescribed simple sedatives, he was not receiving them. on 17 december 2008 a representative from the public defender’s office met with the chief physician of rustavi prison no. 6, where the applicant was staying at the material time. while discussing in detail the failures and shortcomings of the existing insurance scheme, the public defender recommended that the relevant authorities annul the relevant contract. according to an entry in the applicant’s medical file, on 18 february 2009 he was still suffering from constant headaches. on 19 february 2009 the applicant was placed in the prison hospital with a diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis and post‑traumatic encephalopathy. he also had a consultation with a neurologist. 5, where he stayed for almost six months. according to him, the conditions of detention in that prison were inhuman and degrading. 5, he was not allowed to see his family even once.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in reykjavík. he served as minister of finance in the years 1998 to 2005, minister for foreign affairs from 2005 to 2006 and prime minister from 2006 to 2009. after parliamentary elections in may 2007 the applicant led the government which was formed by the independence party (sjálfstæðisflokkurinn), of which he was a member, and the social democratic alliance (samfylkingin). the sic made an extensive investigation during which it collected information from individuals, financial institutions and public institutions, conducted formal hearings with 147 individuals and meetings with a further 183 individuals. on 12 april 2010 the sic issued its report which contained a detailed description of the causes of the collapse of the icelandic banks as well as serious criticism of the acts and omissions of a number of public officials and institutions. in 2009 parliament passed an amendment to the sic act according to which it was to elect an ad hoc parliamentary review committee (þingmannanefndin; hereafter “the prc”) “to address the report of the sic on the collapse of the banks, and form recommendations as to parliament’s response to the sic’s conclusions”. she also submitted a draft text for part of an indictment. on 11 september 2010 the prc submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution to commence impeachment proceedings against four cabinet members: the three mentioned above (including the applicant) and ms ingibjörg sólrún gísladóttir, who was the former minister of foreign affairs and the head of the social democratic alliance. with similar small majorities, the votes concerning the other former ministers led to the conclusion that they should not be indicted. the applicant claims that he and his lawyer had made such a request on several earlier occasions. the prosecution objected to the applicant’s argument that a constitutional custom had developed to the effect that only matters under article 16 of the constitution should be discussed in ministerial meetings under article 17, and even if such custom existed, it could not override a clear provision of the constitution. the prosecutor contested the applicant’s request, maintaining, inter alia¸ that, in view of the thorough gathering of material by the sic, there had been no need for an independent collection of evidence by the prc, which was supposed to base its work on the report of the sic. furthermore, the penal provisions invoked by the prosecution were worded in such a way that they could be interpreted on the basis of objective criteria and were clear enough to enable a proper defence. during the hearing, which lasted until 16 march, written evidence was produced and 40 witnesses gave evidence before the court. on 13 march the applicant testified for a second time. by a judgment of 23 april 2012 the court of impeachment unanimously acquitted the applicant of counts 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 of the indictment, finding that the prosecution had not established that the actions which he was accused of having neglected could or would have averted the danger facing the icelandic financial institutions and the state treasury or reduced it considerably. as for certain negligence imputed to him by the prosecution, the court considered that it related to actions that were not among his duties. in regard to the applicant’s motion to have the whole case dismissed due to the alleged lack of clarity of section 8(c) of the ministerial accountability act, the court of impeachment considered that the words “important government matters” in article 17 of the constitution, to which section 8(c) referred, could easily be understood by a reasonable man in the office held by the applicant and that the provisions contained predictable and reasonable criteria regarding the minister’s discharge of official duties. that was all the more urgent as the defendant did not convey important information which he possessed about the affairs of the banks to the minister for business affairs, to whom they pertained. for this reason it had been very important to discuss the danger facing the banking system within a small group, in full confidentiality.
the applicant company, a limited liability company based in vienna, owns and publishes the daily newspaper der standard and the online news portal derstandard.at. was the member of the board of management in charge of human resources. was deputy governor of the region of carinthia. on 28 october 2010 the medical director of klagenfurt regional hospital (landeskrankenhaus), who was in charge at that time, criticised i.m. only a few hours later the medical director was dismissed without notice. who had accused the kabeg management of using ‘stasi methods’ against insubordinate doctors. was dismissed without notice immediately after the employees’ meeting. he] took the blame and therefore had to explain himself before the bar association. the now disclosed minutes (which are at the disposal of der standard) cast doubts on [i.m.] had personally initiated or ordered that a spy be sent to the employees’ meeting; however, by regularly applying and publicly announcing such practices he had created a climate and environment where such unfair methods were anticipated as “normal” and commonplace. ’s claims under the media act as inadmissible, reasoning that the term spiritus rector was neither defamatory nor mocking, nor did it allege specific conduct. having acted as a spin doctor or the like. it maintained its position that the statement was a value judgment. on account of defamation, and to publish the judgment. the applicant company subsequently lodged an application for renewal of the criminal proceedings (erneuerung des strafverfahrens) under article 363a of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozeßordnung) with the supreme court (oberster gerichtshof), complaining under article 10 of the convention of a violation of its right to freedom of expression. on 26 june 2013 the supreme court rejected the application. ’s application, would have a binding effect on the civil proceedings. on 19 march 2012, during a hearing, the vienna commercial court (handelsgericht) suspended the proceedings until the termination of the proceedings under the media act, holding that they should only be continued at one party’s request. ’s request of 1 october 2012, the commercial court resumed the proceedings on an unspecified date. on 29 june 2013 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant company’s appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in sarajevo, bosnia and herzegovina. on 6 august 2008 the pula county state attorney’s office informed the investigating judge that the applicant also used another telephone number, and requested an authorisation for the tapping thereof. on the same day the investigating judge granted the request, finding that there were no new facts or circumstances suggesting that the use of the special investigative measures in respect of the applicant should be discontinued. on 22 november 2008 the applicant, accompanied by his brother d.s., following the illicit transaction, the applicant and d.s. the investigating judge ordered his remand in custody. in the course of the investigation, the investigating judge obtained an expert report stating that the 600 banknotes of 100 euro which the applicant had sold to the undercover agents were counterfeit. the applicant’s lawyer was present during the questioning. testified that a further meeting with the applicant had taken place in odra after a phone call from the applicant. on that occasion the applicant had asked e.k. in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer. had accepted that and they had met in a shopping centre in solin. the illicit exchange had then taken place and the applicant had afterwards been arrested. reiterated the statement he had given to the investigating judge. following the applicant’s questioning, the trial bench concluded the trial proceedings and heard the parties’ closing arguments. on 13 may 2009 the pazin municipal court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment. also explained that a simulated purchase operation was sometimes carried out just once and sometimes on several occasions. following the questioning of the undercover agents, the defence asked that c.m. ‒ it cannot therefore be said that the conduct of the undercover agents broadened the extent of the criminal activity of the accused. furthermore, the pula county court had not taken into account the fact that the majority of the contacts with the applicant had been initiated by the undercover agents, and it had not analysed the substance of their discussions, even though they had been duly recorded, as a result of the applicant’s phone having been tapped.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in katyr-yurt, the chechen republic. he is the father of mr r., who died of tuberculosis in a prison hospital. 4 in the arkhangelsk region where he was to serve his twelve-year sentence. on admission to that facility, he underwent a general medical check-up permed by a prison doctor who concluded that he was healthy. on 10 march 2005 mr r. complained to the prison medical authorities of fatigue and a cough. on 6 april 2005, in view of the absence of any positive changes in mr r.’s health, he was moved to a prison tuberculosis hospital. treatment with five first-line drugs was prescribed. it was started about two weeks later, but had no effect on mr r.’s health. on 12 april 2005 a drug susceptibility test was performed. an additional chest x-ray examination on 18 april 2005 indicated further progress of the diseases. there are no regular entries showing the actual intake of the new drugs. in august 2005 mr r.’s condition was assessed as “of medium gravity”, but on 10 september 2005 he died. on 21 october 2006 the primorskiy inter-district prosecutor’s office refused to open a criminal case. by a letter of 9 january 2007 a prosecutor informed the applicant that a criminal inquiry had established that his son had contracted tuberculosis in early march 2005. the correctional colony had promptly identified the disease and had ensured treatment keeping the disease under control. she stated that mr r. had been admitted to the hospital on 23 april 2005. they had prescribed treatment with advanced antibiotics. the court found that the documents obtained by the first‑instance court and the statement by ms b. had remedied the alleged shortcomings in the investigation. ten days later the district court re-examined the case. the applicant’s claim was accordingly rejected.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lived until his arrest in the town of yuzhno-sakhalinsk, the sakhalin region. on 3 april 2003 the applicant was apprehended in a flat with unregistered firearms in his possession. four tied persons with traces of beatings, including mr p., were discovered in a cloakroom of the flat. an investigator of the sakhalin regional police department drew up an arrest record. on the following day the applicant’s detention on remand was authorised. on 21 april 2004 the applicant and his lawyers started studying the case file materials comprising nineteen volumes, 200-300 pages long each. on 7 september 2004 the town court set a time-limit for studying, affording the applicant additional twenty working days to complete it. on 29 december 2004 the case was referred to the regional court for trial. on 6 april 2006 the regional court, by a jury verdict, found the applicant and six of his accomplices guilty as charged. on 12 may 2006 the regional court, relying on the jury verdict, sentenced the applicant to twenty-one years’ imprisonment. the applicant was found guilty, in particular, of an aggravated fraud, robbery, kidnapping and extortion in respect of mr l., a businessman from the moscow region. however, after mr l. had transferred the money to an account indicated by the applicant, the latter had disappeared. in october 2002 the applicant contacted mr l., told him that he had just returned from japan with his car and invited him to come to sakhalin for it. on his arrival at the airport of yuzhno-sakhalinsk on 13 october 2002 mr l. was met by mr k., one of the applicant’s accomplices, and taken to the applicant’s country house where he was held until 6 november 2002, being subjected to beatings and extortion by the applicant and his gang. neither mr k., nor mr l. were heard in open court. mr k. had been found dead in a remand prison cell before the trial commenced. as for mr l., residing in the moscow region, the trial court attempted to secure his presence on several occasions by summoning him and ordering his escort to the court. he submitted a number of documents in support, as well as a written notice in which he confirmed his pre-trial statements. having regard to these circumstances, the trial court allowed the prosecution’s request to read out mr l. and mr k.’s statements incriminating the applicant, despite the latter’s objections. mr p. also was not heard in court as he was allegedly on vacation in ukraine.
the applicant was born in 1974 and is detained in diyarbakır. on 8 march 1995 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of hizbullah, an illegal organisation. the applicant’s right of access to a lawyer was restricted during his police custody according to the now defunct law no. on the same day he was examined by a doctor at his own request. the doctor noted, in a police document, that there was no sign of physical violence on the applicant’s body. on 26 march 1995 the applicant further participated in the reconstruction of the events (olay ve yer gösterme) in the course of which he had confessed, in the absence a lawyer, having carried out an arson attack. on 29 march 1995 the applicant was questioned by the police officers in the absence of a lawyer. in his statement, the applicant gave a detailed description about his involvement in hizbullah. on 5 april 1995 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge respectively, again in the absence of a lawyer. before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements claiming that he had been subjected to torture. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on the same day and before his statements were taken, he had been examined by a doctor at the request of the police. on 12 april 1995 he was examined by a doctor at his own request claiming that he had been subjected to torture while in police custody. on 2 may 1995 the applicant gave evidence as complainant before the public prosecutor and stated that the had been subjected to various forms of torture, which included beatings, electric shock treatment, blindfolding, hosing with cold water, and being stripped naked. on 23 may 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicant and several other persons. on 19 october 1995 the state security court held the first hearing in the case. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 9 november 2007, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of attempting to undermine the constitutional order, proscribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code, and sentenced him to life imprisonment again. on 19 january 2009 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment.
the applicants were born in 1969 and 1961 respectively and live in podgorica. they requested that the cameras be removed and the data erased. on 21 march 2011 two agency inspectors issued a report (zapisnik) after visiting the school of mathematics, stating that the video surveillance was in accordance with the personal data protection act. according to them, there had been cases of destruction of university property, the bringing in of animals, drink and tobacco, and the presence of people who were not students. on 22 march 2011 the applicants filed an objection to the report, submitting, inter alia, that they were not aware of any of the alleged incidents and that, in any event, it was unclear how such cameras could ensure the safety of people and property. they agreed that cameras over the entrances and exits from the university building might perhaps be an adequate form of ensuring such security. notably, the decision had been issued on 24 february 2011 whereas surveillance had commenced a few weeks before. they did not specify when exactly but referred to the minutes of the session of 1 february 2011 (see paragraph 6 above). in particular, the council held that the reasons for the introduction of video surveillance provided for by section 36 had not been met, given that there was no evidence that there was any danger to the safety of people and property in the auditoriums, still less to confidential data, and that the surveillance of teaching was not among the legitimate grounds for video surveillance. none of the parties initiated an administrative dispute in court against that decision. on 25 january 2012 the school of mathematics was served with the agency council’s decision of 28 april 2011. the cameras were removed by 27 january 2012 at the latest. it appears that the data that had been collected was also erased on an unspecified date. they also maintained that it had not pursued any legitimate aim and had not been necessary in a democratic society. it also held, however, that the university was a public institution performing activities of public interest, teaching being one of them (poziv redovnog profesora [je] takođe javan), and that it was thus not possible for video surveillance of the auditoriums as public places to violate the applicants’ right to respect for their private life. it was a working area, just like a courtroom or parliament, where professors were never alone, and therefore they could not invoke any right to privacy that could be violated. the court, for its part, did not deal with those issues. on 31 december 2012 the applicants appealed. the high court held in particular that the applicants had not proved that their right to privacy had been violated and found that the first-instance court had “sufficiently related the court’s case-law to the case at issue (dao jasan osvrt na odnos prakse evropskog suda za ljudska prava i konkretnog slučaja) ... the court considered the [applicants’] other arguments and found that they did not justify ruling otherwise in the present case...”. the applicants did not file a constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in nalchik, the ingushetiya republic. on 10 october 2006 the applicant was travelling by a collective taxi from nalchik to grozny in chechnya. the applicant raised his objections, claiming that the wrong kind of ink did not render his passport invalid. once the report had been completed at 3.15 p.m., another police officer took the applicant, again by police car, from goragorsk the nadterechnyi district police station (одч надтереченского района). an operative established his identity, verified his documents and let him go at 5.10 p.m. the station chief later stated that the applicant had “thanked him for a prompt release”. the applicant asked the supervising prosecutor to investigate whether the police had abused their powers by detaining him. pursuant to article 27.3(1) of the code of administrative offences, administrative detention may be applied in exceptional circumstances if this is necessary for the prompt and proper examination of the alleged administrative offence. the decision ... refusing institution of criminal proceedings indicates that a report on the administrative offence ... was compiled and forwarded to [mr timishev’s] place of residence. on 27 january 2009 the nadterechnyi district court identified a number of serious shortcomings in the investigation. it remained unclear what had happened to the report: the investigator had not obtained the forwarding letter or any information about the outcome of the proceedings. the investigator had not inquired why an escorting report required under article 27.2(3) of the code or the detention report required under article 27.4 of the code had not been prepared. nor had he determined what “exceptional circumstances” within the meaning of article 27.3(1) had called for the applicant’s detention and at what time the applicant had actually left the nadterechnyi police station. the court was not convinced that the applicant had asked the police to take him to the nadterechnyi office to file a complaint. it considered implausible that the police had provided a car and an escort to help him complain about their conduct. even assuming that he had indeed wished to make a complaint, the investigator did not establish what had happened to it or, alternatively, why he had not written it, or why he had gone there in person instead of sending it by post from goragorsk. finally, the court criticised the investigator’s assumption that the applicant had committed an administrative offence. it noted that, according to the guidance on issuing passports (order no. responsibility for the wrong kind of ink should lie with the official who departed from the guidance rather than with the applicant. on 9 april 2009 the investigator issued a further decision refusing institution of criminal proceedings. it was similar in its wording to the previous ones and did not touch upon the areas of concern identified in the district court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1950 and is detained in dob pri mirni. the applicant’s knife had had a ten-centimetre blade. he had been stabbed in the back several times by the applicant. testified that he had noticed the applicant and his sons, together with f.m. had approached them and a few seconds later they had started to fight. he testified that the applicant and his sons had been the weaker parties in the fight until the applicant had pulled out a knife, saying, “now let us see”, and using it to attack š.a., the applicant had had his hand in his pocket and appeared to be holding something. no longer had a place of residence that was registered in slovenia, the court on 21 november 2008 asked the police department for international cooperation to investigate where the two witnesses were living. on 20 march 2009 the court received a statement from i.b., the court received the letter on 25 may 2009. seven hearings were held, taking place on 25 september 2008, 27 november 2008, 29 january 2009, 19 february 2009, 10 april 2009, 29 may 2009 and 17 june 2009. who had told him that the men had been attacked outside. he stated that he had remembered the events better during the investigation. in a judgment of fifty-four pages, the court established on the basis of the testimony, telephone and gps data that the applicant had called š.a. ’s initial testimony (see paragraph 16 above) to be the more persuasive of the two, and that it was in line with the findings of the medical experts. in the judgment the court also explained the reasons for reading out i.b. however, according to the supreme court, the applicant had failed to explain how that error on the part of the investigating judge had affected the legality of the impugned judgment. if the defendant has counsel, the investigating judge in principle informs only him. the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters entered into force with respect to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 26 october 1999 and with respect to slovenia on 17 october 2001. it supplements the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters.
the applicant is a construction company, which was established in 2003 and has its seat of business in mersin. in 2005, after having obtained a permit to operate a mine, the applicant opened a mine in a plot of land of 8,700 m² which it owned. during the course of its mining activities, on 31 january 2006 an audit commission under the mersin provincial administration conducted an inspection. on 8 february 2006 the applicant company’s president, ü.t., filed a complaint with the mersin public prosecutor’s office, stating that one of the auditors in the commission, m.a.l., had told him that the fine had initially been calculated as try 500,000 and that he had reduced that amount. had asked him to pay try 10,000 in return and had threatened to have his mine closed if he refused to do so. an official at the provincial administration. in his police statements on 9 february 2006, ü.t. he noted, inter alia, that after the inspection of the audit commission, he had conducted another inspection with an official from the directorate of land registration, and had calculated that he had trespassed on the neighbouring plots by only 400 metres. accordingly, the police gave him try 10,000 and noted down the serial numbers of the banknotes. he stated that in line with the instructions of m.a.l. he had given the money to a third person, who had received it in the name of the other two. on 13 may 2011 the mersin assize court found the two officials guilty as charged. the appeal proceedings with regard to that judgment are still pending before the court of cassation as of september 2017. in the meantime, on 17 april 2006 the applicant had filed an objection with the tarsus magistrates’ court and requested a stay of execution of the fine. on 13 june 2006, the tarsus magistrates’ court rejected the applicant’s requests for an oral hearing and on-site examination without indicating any reasons for its decision. the applicant objected to that decision, arguing that the fine had been unlawfully imposed on it and that the magistrates’ court had failed to adequately assess the case as it had not held a hearing. on 10 july 2006 the tarsus assize court rejected the applicant’s objection without holding a hearing. on 7 march 2008 the administration seized the plot of land where the applicant conducted mining activities due to the latter’s failure to pay the administrative fine.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 2003, the applicant graduated from high school in kaluga and began studies at the finance and economics institute. upon his release on 29 february 2008, he returned to kaluga. on 12 january 2012 the police stopped the applicant in the courtyard of his house and charged him with illegal residence in russia. he shared cell 13 measuring 8.7 square metres with five uzbek nationals awaiting deportation. two light bulbs, 40 watts each, lit the cell. it was cleaned with cold water without detergent. prisoners were given three litres of water per day, it was not allowed to boil it. once a week prisoners were taken to the shower room. there was not enough hot water for all of them and they took turns skipping the shower. there was no calendar or clock in the cell. prisoners were taken outdoors in groups of thirty. the yard was small, six by four metres, so they huddled together. it had no sports equipment or awning for bad weather. the applicant’s complaints to a prosecutor were rejected as unfounded. their report corroborated the applicant’s description of his conditions of detention. in may 2012 the applicant developed pulmonary tuberculosis. he was transferred for treatment to a civilian hospital in kaluga. upon his discharge, he took advantage of the absence of police escort and absconded. a search operation was launched; the applicant was located on 30 january 2013 and returned to the detention centre.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in yalova. the applicant and his wife have four children. in 2003 the applicant was deported to algeria by the turkish authorities. between 2003 and 2006 he was imprisoned in algeria, where he alleges he was subjected to various forms of ill-treatment. during his detention, many people were detained in the room, at times as many as 10-12 people. he was confined in that room and was exceptionally allowed to use the other parts of the detention facility. the applicant submitted a number of photographs in support of his submissions. in one of those photographs he is seen sitting on the bench in a small detention room behind bars. m, and an identification parade room of 6 sq. m. there was also a hall in the centre of the facility, which measured 21 sq. they stated that at the material time the turkish nationals had been kept locked in one of the detention rooms and that the applicant and other foreign nationals had had access at all times to the hall in the centre of the facility − where there were chairs and a table – and to the toilets. there is a shower head installed in each of the toilets. lastly, nine further photographs show the detention rooms and the hall. on 26 november 2013 there were seven foreign nationals, including the applicant, detained at the facility. for thirty days between 4 november 2013 and 7 january 2014, there had been no turkish nationals detained at the facility. in particular, on 26, 27 and 28 november 2013 no turkish national had been held in custody. as regards the applicant’s complaint that the conditions of his detention at the yalova police headquarters had amounted to ill-treatment, the constitutional court noted that he had complained that his health had worsened as a result of the conditions in which he had been detained. cpt/inf(97)10-part) provide, in so far as relevant, as follows:
“27. consequently, the period of time spent by immigration detainees in such establishments should be kept to the absolute minimum. the longer the period for which persons are detained, the more developed should be the activities which are offered to them.
when he lodged his application he was in prison serving a sentence for economic offences. meanwhile, in november 2012, the applicant had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. on 27 november 2012 the applicant had been admitted to the bucharest institute of oncology, from which he had been discharged on 11 january 2013. he had undergone prostate surgery and begun chemotherapy. on 26 february 2013 the applicant was examined by a medical board, which issued him with a certificate of severe disability. on 27 march 2013 he was transferred to the rahova prison hospital. on 25 june 2013 the court allowed the applicant’s request and ordered a three-month interruption of his sentence. having regard to the seriousness of the applicant’s illness, it ruled that hospitalisation under supervision would considerably reduce his chances of survival and recovery owing to the stress and mental suffering caused by the continued execution of his sentence. the applicant was released on the same day. on 29 august 2013 the bacău court of appeal considered the prosecution appeal. he was unable to move, was suffering from severe bone pain and had almost completely lost his sight and hearing. on 5 november 2013 he was transferred to vaslui prison. on 6 november 2013 he was admitted to the târgu ocna prison hospital where he stayed until 12 november 2013, when he was transferred to bacău prison. still on 22 november 2013, the applicant was admitted to the bacău hospital oncology department. he explained that he was dying and that he wanted to have his family present. he pointed out that he was now bedridden, blind and deaf, and that there was no one in prison to assist him in his everyday activities. the national administration of prison authorities replied that only a court could order his release. drawing on the medical files relating to the applicant’s stays in that hospital, he pointed out that on 14 march 2013 the applicant had begun the chemotherapy without having received the radiotherapy recommended by the doctors in his department. in a report of 21 september 2015, the iaşi regional institute of oncology pointed out that between 28 october and 1 november 2013, the applicant had had five radiotherapy sessions, had kept the medical appointments made and had been neither handcuffed nor immobilised during those sessions. at târgu ocna prison hospital he had been held in a 48-m2 cell with eight other prisoners.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in st petersburg. she is the mother of the late mr denis aleksandrovich vyrzhikovskiy. on 1 october 2010 police officers apprehended the applicant’s son and his friend, ms z. and took them to the moskovskiy district department of the interior of st petersburg (увд по московскому району г. for approximately six hours the applicant’s son was ill-treated by police officers he was repeatedly punched in the stomach and hit to the head, right palm and both calves. he was also subjected to the so-called “swallow” method of torture (“ласточка”), with his head, hands and legs being pulled together towards the spine. two police officers then took the applicant’s son and ms z. to another police station. ms z. later testified to having seen a bruise on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s forehead and to his having been in pain and having had difficulties getting into a police car. early in the morning on 2 october 2010 mr vyrzhikovskiy was taken from the station to a hospital. an autopsy report stated that the cause of death was “a severe fat pulmonary embolism aggravated by bronchopneumonia with cerebral edema resulted from a comminuted humeral head fracture with a tear of joint capsules and massive bruises, suffusion and strain of soft tissue and the subcutaneous fat layer.” a pathologist also found the following ante mortem injuries on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s body, all directly linked to his death: massive bruises covering hands, chest, upper back, neck, armpits and most of his face and ears; bruises on the left hip, right palm, right part of the stomach, right thigh, left knee, both calves; abrasions and bruises on the buttocks. all injuries had been inflicted by hard blunt objects. on 12 october 2010 criminal investigation was initiated. the applicant was granted victim status in the proceedings. several police officers were charged with manslaughter and abuse of powers entailing a substantial violation of individual rights, committed using violence. on 26 march 2014 the moskovskiy district court of st petersburg found the officers guilty as charged and sentenced them to various terms of imprisonment. on 1 october 2014 the st petersburg city court partially quashed the judgment and acquitted officers of manslaughter for lack of evidence. while having found it established that the injuries had been inflicted on the applicant’s son intentionally in the police custody, the city court remitted the case for an additional investigation in order to identify those responsible for his death. on 2 march 2015 the investigation was suspended because the time‑limit for the investigation had expired and it was impossible to identify the perpetrators and to carry out any investigative measures in the absence of an accused. on 12 november 2015 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg upheld that decision as lawful. the decision became final on 27 january 2016.
the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in nizhniy tagil. on 20 january 2009 the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded the applicant in custody on suspicion of fraud. the authorised detention period was subsequently extended on several occasions. on 16 february 2010 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial. it directed the prosecution to remedy certain defects and extended the authorised period of the applicant’s detention until 22 april 2010. on 21 april 2010 the sverdlovsk regional court heard an appeal against that detention order and decided that the applicant could be released on bail. by a supplementary decision taken on the following day in the absence of the applicant and his representatives, the regional court fixed the time-limit for posting bail until 11 may 2010. on 29 april 2010 that decision was sent by fax to the remand prison where the applicant was held. he was however unable to post the bail because the district court did not have a deposit account. on 12 may 2010 the district court held that the applicant must be re-detained for his failure to comply with the bail conditions. it did not set any time-limit for the application of the custodial measure. on 2 june 2010 the regional court quashed the detention order, finding that the detention order had lacked a basis in fact. it annulled the custodial measure and ordered the applicant’s release. the applicant was released on 4 june 2010. the conditions of the applicant’s detention in remand prison iz-66/1 can be summarised as follows:
(a)  cell 622, from january to june 2009, measured 30 square metres and accommodated 20 to 25 persons who took turns to sleep; windows were not glazed; the toilet was not separated from the living area;
(b)  cell 129, june and july 2009, 9 square metres and 6 inmates;
(c)  cell 407, july 2009, 12 square metres and 12 to 14 inmates;
(d)  cell 408, august 2009 to april 2010, same as above;
(e)  cell 155, april 2010, 15 square metres;
(f)  cell 134, may 2010, 14 square metres for 8 inmates.
the applicant company was established in 1991 and has its registered office in bratislava. it is the operator of two private television channels and the broadcaster of a television programme, joj plus. the present case concerns a commentary (glosa) delivered during a television programme broadcast on 12 april 2010 after the crash of the plane in which the late president of poland, lech kaczynski, had been travelling. the commentary’s title was “compassion in accordance with protocol”; the commentary contained the following:
“the crash of a polish plane carrying the presidential couple on board is a true human tragedy. the whole of poland is in mourning and politicians are more or less expressing their condolences. thus, slovak russophile politicians too shed a tear, albeit a forced one, over the death of the russophobe, lech kaczynski. even ordinary citizens, not bound by any protocol, are expressing their sorrow. jews, homosexuals, liberals, feminists and left‑oriented intellectuals are bitterly sorry for the death of a man who represented an extreme polish conservativism, and who was a symbol of a country where people who are not white heterosexual catholic poles were born as a punishment. following the broadcast of the above-mentioned commentary, the broadcasting council (rada pre vysielanie a retransmisiu) commenced administrative proceedings against the applicant company, pursuant to section 19(1)(a) of the broadcasting and retransmission act (law no. as amended - “the broadcasting act”), on 25 may 2010. it fined the applicant company 5,000 euros (eur). the broadcasting council assessed the conflict between the applicant company’s freedom of expression and the protection of the human dignity of the late president. on the one hand, it acknowledged the aim of the commentator to express his opinion and his subjective stance on the social and political event through criticism, sarcasm and irony, which were inherent to journalistic expression. the broadcasting council concluded that the manner in which the commentator had presented his opinion – that is to say his lack of regret for the polish president’s death – had contravened the duty to respect his human dignity. it rejected the applicant company’s argument that the broadcasting council had sanctioned it for voicing its political opinion. the applicant company lodged a complaint before the constitutional court challenging the decisions of the broadcasting council and the supreme court under articles 6 § 1 and 10 of the convention and articles 26 (freedom of expression) and 46 (right to judicial protection) of the constitution. on 27 july 2011 the constitutional court rejected the applicant company’s complaint. it considered, inter alia, that the above-mentioned authorities had duly explained their conclusions, without having overly strayed from a reasonable interpretation of the applicable rules and established practice. the constitutional court noted that the impugned commentary had expressed not only sarcasm and criticism of the late president’s policy but also a positive attitude towards his death. given that it had rejected the complaint concerning the alleged violation of procedural rules, it also had to reject the complaint relating to an alleged violation of a substantive provision.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in yekaterinburg. on 13 may 2009 he was arrested on suspicion of armed robbery. on the following day the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded him in custody and set the time-limit until 12 july 2009. on 13 july 2009 the district court granted a two-month extension of the detention period. he was not allowed to leave the police ward and was re-arrested on the charge of theft. the arrest record mentioned the charge, without specifying when or where the theft had been committed or why the applicant was suspected of it. on 2 august 2009 the district court adjourned the detention hearing for seventy-two hours, at the request from the applicant’s counsel. on 2 september 2009 the regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. further extensions of the applicant’s detention were granted by the leninskiy district court on 29 september, 20 october and 2 november 2009. the last extension order was issued in the absence of the parties. on 25 november 2009 the regional court found that extension order unlawful and set it aside, but extended the applicant’s detention for a future period. on 23 december 2009 the bogdanovichi town court in the sverdlovsk region opened the trial and extended the applicant’s detention. the applicant’s appeal against the extension order was rejected by the regional court on 11 june 2010. on 2 march and 22 april 2010 the town court extended the applicant’s detention. the appeals against the orders were rejected on 30 june and 11 june, respectively. throughout the trial the applicant was held in a metal cage. on 13 may 2010 the applicant was found guilty of theft and armed robbery and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. on 18 august 2010 the regional court upheld the conviction but reduced the sentence to three years’ imprisonment. on 24 june 2010 the applicant’s mother died. when his father died on 5 november 2010, the director of the correctional colony in sosnovoborsk in the krasnoyarsk region also refused his request for a short-term absence, on account of the funeral being held outside of the region where the colony was located.
a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix. on 21 november 1994 the applicants were taken into police custody. their statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. all the applicants confessed to having committed the crimes with which they had been charged. on 28 december 1994 they were remanded in custody. on 24 january 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicants (except for eyyup yaşar), charging them under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory. on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judges sitting on the bench of the state security courts were replaced by civilian judges. on 4 december 2001 the diyarbakır state security court convicted the applicants as charged. on 20 november 2002 the court of cassation quashed the convictions. state security courts were abolished on 16 june 2004 pursuant to law no. the case was accordingly transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 22 february 2007 the diyarbakır assize court again convicted the applicants under section 125 of the criminal code and sentenced them to life imprisonment. on 6 february 2008 the court of cassation upheld the convictions.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in moscow. there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. on 25 july 2012 the applicant’s flat was searched; the police seized the applicant’s clothes, domestic and international passports, other documents and his computer. ... the court concludes that there are grounds to consider that [the applicant], if at liberty, is likely to abscond from the investigation and trial, to act in person or through proxy with the aim of avoiding criminal liability, to continue [his] criminal activity, to destroy evidence and otherwise obstruct the investigation, which is at its initial phase. on 2 august 2012 the applicant was charged with the offence laid down in article 212 § 2 of the criminal code (participation in mass disorder accompanied by violence) and accused, in particular, of having kicked a police officer. on 24 september 2012 the basmannyy district court extended the applicant’s detention until 6 november 2012, having found that the circumstances that had justified the detention order had not changed. it considered that a milder preventive measure, including release on bail, would not prevent the applicant from obstructing the proper administration of justice. on 17 april 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order. the decision concerned eleven defendants. on 2 august 2013 the presidium of the moscow city court examined the supervisory appeal lodged by the ombudsman of the russian federation. on 26 september 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court extended the applicant’s house arrest until 2 january 2014. he was diagnosed with vegetative-vascular dystonia, dorsopathy, osteochondrosis, kyphoscoliosis, and first- or second‑degree obesity. the applicant was subsequently examined by a gp on 25 september, 19 october and 26 november 2012, and 24 january, 15 and 25 february, and 15 march 2013. by letter of 2 november 2012 the head of the iz-77/2 informed the applicant’s father that chronic gastritis was not on the list of diseases which allow patients to receive additional nutrition. on 4 september 2013 the tverskoy district court refused to examine this complaint. after release the applicant had a medical examination at the town hospital and a consultation with a prominent gastroenterologist. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back was identical to that in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). 338 and at the end of july moved to hearing room no.
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1996 respectively and live in muğla. the first applicant was the husband and the second applicant was the son of mrs özlem gürakın, who died on 3 september 2001. on an unspecified date, the applicants brought compensation proceedings against the dokuz eylül university hospital, alleging that mrs özlem gürakın had been a victim of medical negligence. the applicants further requested legal aid for the court fees. in respect of their legal aid claim, they submitted documents attesting to their poor financial situation. on 13 december 2006 the izmir administrative court rejected the applicants’ legal aid claim, without indicating any specific reasons. they were notified that they had to pay 1,683 turkish liras (try) (approximately 870 euros (eur)) in court fees within one month to continue the proceedings and that failure to do so would result in the discontinuation of the proceedings. as the applicants failed to pay the court fees within the time-limit, the i̇zmir administrative court sent a further warning letter to the applicants and ordered them to pay the court fees. on 6 april 2007 the applicants made a second request for legal aid and asked the court to reconsider its former decision. on 20 april 2007 the izmir administrative court once again rejected the applicants’ request and granted them one month to pay the court fees. on 12 july 2007 the court decided to discontinue the proceedings, because the applicants had not paid the necessary court fees.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in valuyki, the belgorod region. on 14 june 2006 ms i., a university student, disappeared. according to the applicant, on the morning of 17 june 2006 the police searched his flat without drawing up a record. after the search the applicant was taken to the severnyy police department, where he was interviewed about i.’s whereabouts. according to the applicant, he was subjected to beatings and given electric shocks by police officers of the sovetskiy police department in order to make him give information about i.’s whereabouts. when he was ready to give a statement in order to stop the torture, he was taken to a river bank and shown a dead body. the applicant was then taken to the place where he had allegedly hidden i.’s body. at 12.50 a.m. on 20 june 2006 investigator s. arrested the applicant as a suspect and questioned him between 1 and 1.50 a.m., and then between 11 and 11.15 a.m., in the presence of p., a state-appointed lawyer invited by investigator s. the applicant reiterated his earlier self‑incriminating statements, as well as the statements concerning his ill‑treatment at the severnyy police department. the applicant also showed where he had hidden the victim’s mobile telephone. in the criminal proceedings that followed the applicant was represented by a lawyer hired for him by his family. on 28 june 2006 investigator s. communicated the applicant’s allegations concerning the unlawful actions of the police officers from the severnyy police department to the kominternovskiy district prosecutor’s office of voronezh. his two decisions of 1 july and 2 august 2006 were annulled by his superiors on the grounds that they had been based on an incomplete inquiry. that evening m. took him to the police station again for swearing on the street near the police station. no physical force was used against him, and no complaints were made by him. in the most recent refusal of 21 september 2006 to institute criminal proceedings for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed, the investigator found, relying on statements by the operative officers of the sovetskiy police department, that the applicant had been taken to the station with his consent and had confessed to the murder of i. he had also shown where he had hidden her body voluntarily, without any coercion. on 25 october 2006 the district court convicted the applicant of aggravated murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. p. was subjected to disciplinary liability in the form of a warning. however, it had established a breach of the procedure for providing legal assistance at the invitation of the investigating authorities. on 6 february 2007 the voronezh regional court upheld the judgment on an appeal by the applicant, fully endorsing the trial court’s findings. applications by the applicant for supervisory review of his case were dismissed by the regional court.
he is currently detained at săpoca psychiatric hospital, in a section of the hospital located in the municipality of ojasca (buzău county). the applicant has been in receipt of a second-degree disability allowance since 1993. 20 initiated a criminal prosecution against the applicant. he was alleged to have had sexual intercourse with his elder daughter and forced both his daughters to be present while he was having sexual intercourse with his wife. on the same day the prosecution, with reference to article 114 §§ 1 and 2 of the penal code (cp), ordered the applicant’s provisional detention in a psychiatric hospital with a view to conducting a medical examination to assess his capacity for discernment. on the same day the applicant was admitted to the alexandru obregia psychiatric hospital in bucharest. a forensic medical report was drawn up on 2 november 2001 establishing that the applicant suffered from chronic paranoid schizophrenia and lack of discernment. the applicant was provided with a neuroleptic- and tranquilliser-based treatment. it pointed out, however, that he had been hostile during the examination and had expressed delusional ideas of injustice and his intention to remedy the latter. it reasoned as follows:
“by criminal decision no. according to the forensic medical reports drawn up after each review, the applicant, who had not fully acknowledged the fact of his mental illness, had been calm, had not refused his treatment and had refrained from causing trouble with the other patients. by decision of 18 february 2010 buzău district court dismissed a request submitted by the applicant for the lifting of the detention measure. by decision of 1 april 2010 buzău district court maintained the detention measure in respect of the applicant. on 1 october 2015 the board drew up its forensic medical report recommending the replacement of the detention measure with a compulsory medical treatment measure. by judgment of 29 august 2016 buzău county court upheld the 27 may 2016 decision. (b) measures taken by the national administrative and hospital authorities 65. it referred to the forensic medical report of 25 january 2017 (see paragraph 70 above) and to the “aim of the preventive measures, which was to put an end to a situation of danger and prevent the perpetration of acts punishable under criminal law”. on 8 march 2017 the lawyer representing the applicant before the court sent a letter to săpoca hospital recommending, in the framework of enforcement of the decision of 21 february 2017, the applicant’s ultimate reintegration into society rather than his placement in a residential centre. he emphasised that releasing the applicant without adequate support would condemn him to vagrancy, destitution and the deterioration of his physical and mental health. it also attempted, unsuccessfully, to contact two foundations in bucharest for the same purpose.
in may 2008 the first applicant turned to the child welfare authorities because she was pregnant and was in a difficult situation: she did not have a permanent home and was temporarily staying with her parents, the fourth and fifth applicants. in the decision they stated that the family centre’s staff had had to check on the family every third hour to make sure that x was receiving enough food. the mother has needed guidance at a very basic level, and she has needed advice to be repeated to her several times. on 27 october 2008 x was sent to a child psychiatry clinic for an evaluation. the child welfare authorities appealed against the city court’s judgment and concurrently applied for its implementation to be suspended. on 9 october 2009, the child welfare authorities decided to appoint two experts, a psychologist, b.s., meanwhile, on 12 october 2009, the high court (lagmannsrett) granted leave to appeal on the ground that the ruling of, or the procedure in, the city court had been seriously flawed (see paragraph 66 below). furthermore, the high court referred to the report of 5 december 2008 from the child psychiatry clinic (see paragraph 12 above). as the stay at the family centre had been short, the high court found it appropriate to consider the first applicant’s behaviour (“fungering”) during the contact sessions that had been organised subsequent to x’s placement in foster care. ...
... the biggest source of stress for [x] is probably not meeting his mother and her extended family during the contact sessions in itself, but the amount of contact and the pressure arising from [utterances to the effect that] ‘now you’re coming back home’, and an atmosphere dominated by the mother’s hostility towards the foster mother. see paragraph 23 above), stated in court that the contact sessions had appeared to be so negative that she was of the opinion that the mother should not have right of access to her son. in conclusion to the question of the first applicant’s competence as a carer, she stated in her report that the stay at the family centre had illustrated that the first applicant “had problems handling and retaining information in such a manner that it could be used to guide her behaviour”. it agreed with the conclusions of the court-appointed expert, m.s., the reports from the contact sessions between the mother and [x] consistently show that she is still unable to focus on [x] and what is best for him, but is influenced by her very negative view of the foster mother and of the child welfare service. she also claimed that the visits between her and x had worked well. moreover, x had a good attachment to his foster family and had lived with them for over three years. the first applicant was present together with her legal counsel. the first applicant believed that returning him would be unproblematic and still did not understand why the child welfare authorities had had to intervene when he was placed in the emergency foster home. in the present case, the decisive factor would be whether adoption was in x’s best interests and whether consent for adoption should be given on the basis of an overall assessment. as concerned the new evidence, the court noted that the evaluation dated 21 march 2012 had been made by, inter alia, an expert who had testified before the city court and that the document would not change the outcome of the case.
he currently lives in belgium, but at the material time lived in podgorica, montenegro. this was followed by nine to ten gunshots, and y’s calling out insulting references to the applicant’s “turkish mother”. the same day the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the police against the families of x, y, s and b, and one more family living in the building. x and y also denied that they had watched the match together, and y submitted that everything he had said had been addressed to the bosnian kickboxer. b denied that she had been in v’s apartment on that occasion. m confirmed that during the argument with y, x had come and said that if he “saw red” he would “kill them, as well as this gypsy” (“napraviću dženaze i vama, a i ovom ciganinu”), pointing in the direction of the applicant’s flat. on 25 november 2009 the state prosecution service issued an official report (službena zabilješka) finding that the impugned words of 26 may, as well as those of 9 september 2009, which referred to the use of swords and axes, had not been addressed to either the applicant or anybody close to him, and that the incident of 15 september 2009 could not be considered a threat. the incident of 22 september 2009, however, could be considered as jeopardising security. it was further held that the applicant had not submitted any evidence in relation to the incident of 22 september 2009, nor had he called the police at the time to come to the scene and “collect the necessary material for further analysis” in order to verify his suspicions. he submitted, in particular, that on 22 september 2009 he had actually called the police, who had only taken photographs of the scene. the fact that they had failed to do what they should have done was in no way his fault, as it was not up to him to tell the police what to do, but only to lodge a criminal complaint, which he had done. it considered that it should be examined under articles 6 and 14 of the convention and corresponding articles of the montenegrin constitution, and found there had been no violation of any of them. the government submitted information from the applicant’s criminal record reflecting convictions for minor offences in 1981, 1990 and 2002. for each of these offences he had received a suspended sentence. he was sentenced to a ten-day period of imprisonment and the pistol was confiscated. on 21 october, 23 october and 30 october 2009 x, v and m.ć. on 25 december 2009 those complaints were rejected by the state prosecutor. that judgment was upheld by the high court on 15 october 2010. on 12 august 2010 the applicant filed a private criminal action (optužni predlog) against x, who was acquitted by the court of first instance on 7 june 2011. the same day the applicant and his family moved out of their apartment.
he is the grandfather of the second applicant. the second applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sarajevo. on 10 november 2005 the second applicant initiated administrative proceedings in order to obtain recognition of the veteran status of his late father. his request was rejected on 12 december 2005. the second applicant appealed on an unknown date in december 2005 or january 2006. on 26 january 2006 the competent ministry upheld the first-instance decision. on 21 january 2008 the sarajevo cantonal court quashed the decisions of 12 december 2005 and 26 january 2006, and remitted the case to the first-instance body. in the new proceedings, the second applicant’s request was again rejected. the last decision was given by the sarajevo cantonal court on 25 september 2012. it was served on the second applicant on 23 october 2012. in the meantime, on 10 october 2012, the constitutional court found a breach of the second applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in maribor. nationals of the sfry had “dual citizenship” for internal purposes, that is to say they were citizens of both the sfry and one of the six republics. the pension rights of military personnel were regulated by and secured through the federal authorities. this was the only pension fund existing at federal level. in parallel, each republic had in place its own pension legislation and public pension fund set up for the payment of civil pensions. on 25 june 1991 slovenia declared its independence. in 1992 the slovenian government issued the ordinance on the payment of advances on military pensions (see paragraph 28 below, hereinafter “the ordinance”) which regulated, on a temporary basis, the payment of military pensions to former ypa military personnel residing in the republic of slovenia who had applied for or fulfilled the conditions for retirement under the rules governing the pension and disability insurance of military personnel (hereinafter “the sfry military rules”) by 18 october 1991, the date of withdrawal of the ypa from slovenia (see p.p. 39923/98, commission decision of 1 july 1998, decisions and reports (dr) 3, p. 25). 28233/08 and 2 others, § 11, 4 june 2013). the applicant was a citizen of the republic of serbia in the sfry. he has been residing in slovenia since 1964 and has had permanent resident status since 1981. on 13 november 1991 the ypa fund found him to be entitled to an old-age pension under the sfry military rules as from 1 october 1991 with more than forty-one pensionable years with bonus (benificirana doba) in the ypa. by a decision of 11 july 1992 the ministry of interior dismissed his application. the applicant instituted court proceedings, which were unsuccessful. on 13 october 2005 the constitutional court rejected a constitutional complaint by him on the grounds that it was no longer relevant because he had acquired slovenian citizenship in 2003 (see paragraph 19 below). by a decision of 17 may 1993 his payments were stopped with effect from 31 january 1992. by a decision of 5 may 1993 the institute found that the applicant had been entitled to such an advance starting from 1 november 1991. it added that he could re-apply for an old-age pension under the 1998 act once he acquired slovenian citizenship. on 21 march 2007 the appeal was dismissed, essentially on the grounds that in the legally relevant period the applicant had been a foreigner who had not had rights to a pension or other benefits under the sfry military rules by 25 june 1991 as required by section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act. on 23 march 2009 it was dismissed by the supreme court, which followed the lower courts’ reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in gornja maoča. on 28 october 2011 mr mevlid jašarević, a member of the local group advocating the wahhabi/salafi version of islam (see, concerning this group, al husin v. bosnia and herzegovina, no. one police officer was severely wounded in the attack. pursuant to article 256 of the code of criminal procedure, all those present in the courtroom must stand up upon the call from a court officer. the court thereupon warned the accused that standing up was a statutory obligation of the accused and that under article 242 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, disruptive conduct constituted contempt of court, which the court would punish by removing them from the courtroom. when the trial chamber returned to the courtroom, the accused did not stand up, and therefore the president removed them from the courtroom. the transcript from the hearing was subsequently delivered to the accused. the accused fojnica and ahmetspahić then changed their mind and regularly appeared before the court, while the accused jašarević did so only at the following hearing. he appeared, as summoned, but refused to remove his skullcap, notwithstanding an order from the president of the trial chamber to do so. thus, the court is not a place where religious beliefs can be expressed in a way that discredits certain common rules and principles in a multicultural society. the allegation in the appeal that the witness was punished simply because he was a believer who was practising his religion, and that he had thereby been discriminated against, is also unsubstantiated. it clearly follows from the aforementioned that the witness husmet hamidović was not deprived of his right to freedom of religion and freedom to manifest religion at his home or any other place dedicated for that purpose, but not in the courtroom. turning to the relevant criteria, the nature and the seriousness of the conduct must certainly be taken into consideration. while it is true that the general prevention is one of the aims of sanctions, including disciplinary ones, disciplinary sanctions are primarily directed at individuals. in the circumstances of this case, and having regard to the nature and the intensity of contempt of court committed by this witness, the appeals chamber finds that a fine in the amount of bam 3,000 is appropriate. that decision was upheld on 13 december 2012 and the applicant served his prison sentence immediately. this is a universally accepted standard of conduct of the courts in bosnia and herzegovina, which is in accordance with the position of the european court, referred to in the kokkinakis judgment, that the interpretation and application of such enactments that are couched in vague terms depend on practice. the constitutional court notes that the state court relied also on rule 20 of the house rules, providing that ‘visitors must respect the dress code applicable to judicial institutions’, as an internal act of the state court and other judicial institutions. in the present case, the state court considered the repeated refusal of the appellant to comply with an order of the court to be damaging to the reputation and the dignity of a judicial institution. finally, as to the question whether the decision was necessary in a democratic society in order to achieve one of the legitimate aims under article 9 of the european convention, the constitutional court reiterates that, according to the settled case-law of the european court, the contracting states have a certain margin of appreciation in assessing the existence and extent of the need for interference, but this margin is subject to european supervision, embracing both the law and the decisions applying it, even those given by independent courts (dahlab, cited above).
the applicants complained of a breach of their property rights through the actions of russian military forces in chechnya in 2000 and the failure of the competent domestic authorities to provide them with effective remedies in respect of those breaches. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. (a)  seizure of the applicant’s vehicle 7. the applicant lived at 109 sovetskaya street, urus-martan. they entered the compound of a military unit known as don-100, in the south-western outskirts of urus-martan. in july and august 2001 the ministry of justice replied to the investigator that no ministry serviceman by the name of iv. in the meantime, the applicant applied to the urus-martan town court, requesting that it confirm his ownership of the vehicle in question. on the strength of the above, on 27 february 2006 the town court confirmed the applicant’s ownership of the vehicle in question. the applicant appealed, and on 4 july 2006 the supreme court of chechnya quashed the decision of 21 september 2006 and remitted the case to the urus-martan town court for fresh consideration. on 21 december 2006 the urus-martan town court considered the substance of the case and concluded that the evidence submitted by the applicant and adduced during the pending criminal investigation had failed to establish conclusively the implication of state agents in the crime. on 1 august 2007 the urus-martan town court dismissed the applicant’s claim, referring to the absence of conclusive proof that state servicemen had seized the vehicle. the application was lodged on 6 october 2008 by mr ismail amalayev, who was born in 1960 and currently lives in kiel, germany. in the evening of 14 october 2000 the applicant, his wife and aunt travelled in the applicant’s kamaz 53-20 lorry from the village of starye atagi to the chiri-yurt district of grozny, chechnya. 205 was passing by, and the applicant signalled to it by flashing his headlights. it concluded that the applicant had left his lorry on the road and that the car had been destroyed by fire as a result of an electrical short circuit. in 2001-2002 the applicant lodged a number of complaints against that decision. on 25 march 2001 the grozny district prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the applicant’s allegations that his kamaz lorry had been shot at and been destroyed by fire by unidentified servicemen driving apc no. the investigation was adjourned on several occasions. on 11 june 2008 the supreme court of chechnya confirmed this decision. 205” did not exist, according to the general staff of the ministry of defence.
at the relevant time they were employed by one of the two national television stations in denmark, danmarks radio, hereafter “dr”. it focused on two types of chemotherapy medication, alimta, produced by l, and vinorelbine, produced by f. copenhagen university hospital and s used vinorelbine as first-line treatment in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin, depending on whether the treatment was related to an operation (operable patients) or to prolonging life and relieving pain and symptoms (inoperable patients). it emerged that there had been no financial profit for the doctors involved. they are divided into different stages, called phases. these trials may compare a completely new treatment with the standard treatment or with different doses or ways of giving a standard treatment. if some patients were offered alimta everybody had to be offered alimta ... after the programme had been broadcast ... patients started mistrusting the vinorelbine therapy. nor would it be possible to obtain funding for the trial. it would have been more relevant to study alimta in combination with cisplatin versus vinorelbine with cisplatin .... s has made a phase ii trial of the standard therapy [vinorelbine] ... subsequently the standard therapy regimen has been expanded to include alimta, which is not a better product than vinorelbine, but eight times more expensive ... if two drugs are equally effective, but one of them is eight times more expensive than the other, patients will be offered therapy using the cheaper drug. ... copenhagen university hospital had therefore had to change medical products because patients had the clear impression that vinorelbine was not as good as alimta ... it is quite usual for copenhagen university hospital to surrender material to the press and to answer questions, but the questions of [the first applicant] were never-ending. the [applicants] are therefore considered to have violated article 267 of the penal code. for years he has gone his own way, he has treated dying patients with chemotherapy that is not approved.’ in the worst scenario, that may result in the patients dying earlier than if they had been given the approved substance.’ - ‘however, that chemotherapy turned out to have huge consequences for her [sp].’ - ‘s can freely choose the medication that he thinks is best. accordingly, that is the only medication which is approved as treatment. against this background, in the programme, the applicants, as producer of the programme and as chief sub-editor, have made an allegation against copenhagen university hospital and s of malpractice and of nourishing irrelevant considerations to the detriment of the lives and health of patients. it must have been clear to them [the applicants] that they were making such an allegation by way of their presentation of the programme. a very considerable public interest is related to journalistic discussion about risk to life and health, or suspicion thereof, as regards public hospital treatment. against this background, including the fact that the word ‘approved’ was not explained during the programme, namely the difference between medication approved for treatment and [medication] approved for marketing, and by consistently using the word “test medication”, even though only one patient in the programme participated in tests, [the applicants] made allegations which were based on an incorrect factual basis, of which they must have been aware via the research material. the high court thus dismisses the appeal and upholds the judgment of the copenhagen city court.
they now live in switzerland, where they were granted asylum in july 2017 (see paragraph 31 below). born respectively in 1999, 2004 and 2014, are their sons. they were travelling with four other families. on 17 august 2015, they hired other taxis to drive them to the bulgarian-serbian border, somewhere around the town of bregovo. the first officer could not catch up with the driver and came back. the preparation of the documents relating to the applicants’ arrest then took another hour, and the written declarations that they had been acquainted with their rights were stamped as having been signed at 9 p.m. the applicants could not have therefore been placed in their cell earlier than 10 p.m. 12. the government also pointed out that in a video submitted by the applicants (see paragraph 15 below), travel bags and personal effects were visible inside their cell. after the search, the arrestees were split into two groups. in the application form, the applicants stated that both cells were on the detention facility’s second floor. according to the applicants, the cell was hot and its window could not be opened. it shows that the cell was at ground level, about 4 by 4 metres, with a large double window (secured on the inside by a mesh grille), an open door, and a padlocked metal grille on the door. personal effects, such as a small shoulder bag, training shoes and some litter, are strewn about. other random objects – food remains, empty plastic bottles, rubbish and a torn blanket – are piled up in a corner. the video was submitted by the applicants on a digital video disk containing two video files. the footage in both files is identical, except that: (a) the faces of the applicants in the first one have been pixelated (whereas in the second they have not); (b) the running time of the first video is one minute and twenty-one seconds (whereas that of the second is one minute and thirty-two seconds, as it continues for another ten seconds); and (c) in the first file the footage is horizontal whereas in the second it is rotated to the right at a ninety-degree angle. in a letter to the government agent, an official from the migration directorate of the ministry of internal affairs in sofia, having compared the video footage with the photographs in the applicants’ migration files, stated that he could confirm that the applicants were indeed the people featured in the video. the government did not comment on that point. according to the government, the applicants were provided with food and water, in accordance with the relevant regulations. on 24 august 2015 the applicants sought international protection in bulgaria. just over a year later, on 27 july 2017, the applicants were granted asylum in switzerland.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in riga. on 23 april 2003 criminal proceedings were instituted. on 29 april 2003 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of attempted bribery. on 2 may 2003 the applicant was detained on remand. on 25 july 2003 he was released and police supervision was imposed instead, under which he was obliged not to leave his home district without the authorisation of the investigation authorities, and to report to the local police department twice a week. the first hearing was scheduled to take place from 1 to 4 august 2005. on 1 october 2005 the new criminal procedure law entered into force; it introduced new rules concerning, inter alia, conflicts of interest faced by judges. on 31 july 2006 the hearing was adjourned because the prosecutor and the applicant’s defence lawyer were due to go away on holiday. on 13 november 2006 the hearing was adjourned once again owing to d.e. on 15 november 2006 a judge from the riga regional court requested the hospital in which d.e. was being treated to provide information about her state of health. on the same day the riga regional court ordered that d.e. undergo a medical examination in order for her capacity to participate in the proceedings to be determined. was able to participate in the proceedings. on 27 september 2007 the riga regional court scheduled the next hearing for 27 december 2007. ’s lawyer requested that that hearing be rescheduled in order to accommodate his taking planned holidays. on 27 december 2007 the hearing was adjourned, as the prosecution needed to replace the charge against the applicant with a more lenient one. on 11 january 2008 the riga regional court started to hear the parties’ arguments regarding the merits of the case. on 15 january 2008 it convicted the applicant of attempted bribery and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. by a final decision of 26 january 2009 the senate of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas senāts) refused the applicant leave to appeal on points of law, noting, inter alia, that the applicant’s “reference to violations of certain laws and international legal provisions was formalistic.”
in 1957 several plots of land (agricultural land at the time) were expropriated from the applicants’ legal predecessors. the present cases concern restitution proceedings in which the applicants sought that the plots of land, which, at present, form part of a campsite on the shore of lake ohrid, be restored to their possession. on 14 august 2001 the applicants instituted restitution proceedings. on 15 september 2003 the ministry of finance’s restitution commission (“the restitution commission”) granted the applicants’ claims and awarded them compensation, the form of which was to be determined by a separate decision. it established that according to an urban plan of 20 march 2002 the land was designated as a public green zone in a tourist area. relying on an on-site inspection (увид) of 1 september 2002, it further held that the land was developed (уреден простор) with access paths and supporting infrastructure. on 4 december 2003 the applicants appealed, arguing that, inter alia, the land was undeveloped and could be restored to their possession. were the urban plan to be implemented in the future, the land could be expropriated anew. on 31 may 2005 the the second-instance administrative-procedure commission in the area of denationalisation (комисија за решавање во управна постапка во втор степен од областа на денационализацијата – “the second-instance commission”) dismissed the applicants’ appeal finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasons given by the restitution commission. on 21 september 2005 the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim with the supreme court reiterating that the land within the campsite was undeveloped and could therefore be restored to their possession. in submissions lodged subsequently, they further referred to decision no. 44-530/1 of 7 march 2006 in which the second-instance commission had accepted a similar claim and ordered that a neighbouring plot of land located within the same campsite had been restored to possession of the claimants. in that case, the second-instance commission had held, unlike in the applicants’ case, that access paths and supporting infrastructure had not been sufficient for the land in question to be regarded as developed. on 7 february 2008 the administrative court, which had in the meantime become competent to decide administrative-dispute claims, dismissed the applicants’ claim and upheld the findings of the administrative authorities. it concluded accordingly that the plot could not be restored to the applicants’ possession. an appeal by the applicants of 7 april 2004 was dismissed by the second-instance commission on 15 november 2005. the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim in which, alike the applicants in application no. 38024/08, they referred to the second-instance commission’s decision no. 44-530/1 and asked the administrative court to ensure consistent application of the law. on 21 april 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasoning given by the administrative authorities.
the applicant was born in 1973, lives in austria since 2001 and is currently in detention pending extradition at vienna-josefstadt prison. was released from prison in 2005, the applicant’s sister reported him to the police for having repeatedly raped her during their marriage, and for threatening to kill her and her family. on 20 january 2016 the ministry of justice of kosovo requested the applicant’s extradition. he claimed that the accusations had been invented by s.lu. as revenge for the applicant’s having testified against him during the criminal proceedings in austria. a very influential member of that clan, was detained at mitrovica prison and following extradition to kosovo, he would be detained at that prison as well. it confirmed the criminal court’s finding that the applicant had failed to substantiate a real and individual risk of being subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment, or that the kosovo authorities would not be able to protect him from third, private parties. was convicted in kosovo for issuing a dangerous threat against the applicant, which demonstrated that the kosovo authorities were indeed capable of taking adequate measures to protect the applicant. clan could not be that influential if it was not capable of keeping its own members out of prison. clan wanted to take revenge on him and the kosovo authorities were not willing or able to afford him protection. on 22 june 2016 the court granted the applicant’s request. on 17 june 2016 the applicant lodged applications for the reopening (wiederaufnahme) of the extradition proceedings and a stay of the extradition with the criminal court. he produced a certified declaration by l.q., he asserted that he had been tortured by the kosovo police during his questioning and had been pressured into blaming the applicant for ordering the murder. averred that he did not even know the applicant in person. on 18 july 2016 the applicant lodged an application for a renewal (erneuerung) of the extradition proceedings with the supreme court under article 363a of the code of criminal procedure (strafprozessordnung – hereinafter “the ccp”), requesting suspensive effect at the same time. on 6 september 2016 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s application. ’s initial incriminating statements against the applicant had been made in the presence of his lawyer. the court of appeal reiterated that it was in any event for the kosovo courts to evaluate the evidence against the applicant. in sum, it confirmed that the statement by l.q.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sofia. the applicant was employed as a police officer in 1977. after having participated in several international missions, in 2001 he applied for a position as police observer in a new mission. this necessitated an assessment of his psychological suitability, which he underwent at the ministry of the interior’s psychology institute (hereinafter “the institute”) on 1 september 2001. the result of the assessment was negative and the applicant was not included in the contingent to be sent to the international mission. the applicant complained of the negative result of his psychological assessment to the head of the institute, but was informed, in a letter dated 1 february 2002, that a check-up had shown that the assessment had been objective and correct. after the negative outcome of the assessment, on 1 march 2002 the applicant retired from service. the parties have not specified whether he would have been able to continue working for the ministry of the interior at a different position. the new psychological assessment was conducted on 11 october 2002, and the institute psychologists concluded once again that the applicant was psychologically unfit for the job. thus, the applicant’s application to join the new mission was rejected. the human resources department of the ministry of the interior informed him, in a letter dated 29 january 2003, that the refusals to include him in the international contingents had been lawful. on 12 february 2003 the applicant applied under the protection of personal data act (see paragraph 22 below) to receive access to the documents contained in his personnel file at the ministry of the interior. this conclusion was upheld on 30 july 2004 by the supreme administrative court. on 31 january 2005 the minister of the interior issued a decision refusing the applicant access to his personnel file. on 15 august 2006 a five-member panel of the supreme administrative court upheld these findings. he explained that personnel files of officers contained information on “the enquiries in respect of a person applying to be employed” at the ministry and information revealing the ministry’s “structures, positions and functions”. it was explained further that even though personnel files also comprised documents which contained no sensitive information, owing to the presence of some classified documents the files had to be classified in their entirety. the applicant applied for judicial review. in a judgment of 25 march 2008 a three-member panel of the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review. in the proceedings before the court the government submitted copies of the applicant’s psychological assessments of september 2001 and october 2002.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in enfield (united kingdom). 46113/99 and 7 others, §§ 4-16, echr 2010). the total area of the land is some 18 dönüm.[1] 10. in 2007 the applicant instructed a law firm in nicosia, which duly obtained a valuation report on the land from a turkish cypriot chartered surveyor. in february 2017 the applicant obtained a new valuation report from the land registration office of the republic of cyprus which assessed the value of the property in question, including economic loss and interest accrued since 1997 (when the applicant became owner of the property) to december 2016, at eur 2,088,366 in total. the total compensation sought was gbp 100,000 per dönüm (gbp 1,800,000 or approximately eur 2,285,000). in her affidavit the applicant attested that the property in question had been transferred to her after 1974 by her aunt, who had owned it since before 1974. it relied on an affidavit by the “trnc” director of the land registry and surveys department, who explained that their records showed that one of the registered owners of the property in question was chrystollou nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s aunt), that maria nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s mother) was the owner of part of one of the plots of land, and that the applicant had failed to demonstrate that she was the legal heir of the two registered owners. he also considered that the applicant’s compensation claim was excessive and unfounded. a directions hearing before the ipc took place on 25 may 2010. on 3 june 2010 the attorney general submitted the search document of the “trnc” land registry and surveys department relating to the plots included in the applicant’s claim. on 6 june 2012, through her representative, the applicant asked permission to amend her initial claim. on 20 november 2012 the applicant submitted the documents requested by the attorney general’s representative on 1 june 2010 (see paragraph 18 above). the hearing was adjourned to enable the applicant to obtain the documents in question. the mukhtar’s certificates also identified these individuals on the basis of their identity card numbers. on 16 january 2014 the applicant’s representative asked that a hearing be held before the ipc. they also stated that they would not represent the applicant in further proceedings. another hearing was scheduled for 12 october 2016. the applicant contended that these arguments were being raised for the first time now and she therefore asked for a formal hearing to be opened in her case. the proceedings before the ipc are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in pskov. the applicant described events at the police station as follows. f. and k. had demanded that he stand facing a wall, hands raised, and had searched him. in particular, they had punched him repeatedly in the face and the lumbar region and had tried to knock him down. nor was he asked to sign the record of his examination or given its copy. on 31 january 2006 the pskov town court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the investigator’s decision of 23 december 2005. it stressed that there had been no eyewitnesses to the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment, and that the applicant had not complained of any ill-treatment to the drug-clinic doctor. police officers m., o. and s. interviewed him, asking who had been driving the car and whether the car had been stolen. on 9 may 2007 a deputy prosecutor of the novyy toryal district prosecutor’s office decided that material concerning the applicant’s unlawful driving on 31 march 2007 should be examined separately from the material concerning the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment. the time of the drawing-up the record was indicated as 11.40 p.m. on 24 march 2007. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. it was established that no physical force had been used against the applicant. the applicant was born in 1969 and lived in cheboksary. the police officers took him to the kaliniskiy district police station instead. on 31 august 2006 the kalininskiy district court, following a prior appeal by the applicant, upheld the judgment. in a report to his superior, officer m. stated that the applicant had behaved aggressively at the police station and that he himself had hit his head against a wall and had broken his tooth. at about 5.20 a.m. on 28 may 2008 the applicant was arrested by police officers p. and v. in a twenty-four-hour shop and taken to the mitino district police station of the moscow north-western administrative circuit. in a record of the applicant’s administrative detention at 5.30 a.m. on 28 may 2008, drawn up at 5.32 a.m. that day, an officer on duty at the police station noted the applicant’s complaint that the police officers had inflicted injuries on him. on 9 june 2008 he was examined at polyclinic no. as no injuries had been recorded in the area of the external right ear, the expert doubted that the perforated otitis had been a result of trauma or its connection to the alleged police ill-treatment (the expert’s report of 9 october 2009).
the applicant was born in 1934 and lived in moscow. in june 1998 he deposited 5,187.40 united states dollars in a three‑month account with russian credit, a private bank. in august 1998 the country suffered a financial crisis, the rouble fell, and the bank defaulted. in december 1998 the applicant accepted the bank’s offer to settle and close his account in return for the balance in depreciated roubles. by the time the money reached the applicant in march 1999, the rouble had depreciated further. in october 1999 the bank went into external administration and its debt repayments were frozen pending a restructuring. in may 2000 the bank and its creditors negotiated a group settlement of the pre-october 1999 debt and had it approved by the courts. the settlement discharged the bank from fines, penalties, default interest, and damages arising under legislation, contracts with clients, and court decisions. in december 2001 the applicant sued the bank for the loss caused by the exchange-rate fluctuations between the day he had accepted the bank’s offer and the day the money had arrived. the bank objected to that claim on the ground that it had extinguished its obligations by repaying the deposit to the applicant. on 17 april 2002 the golovinskiy district court of moscow awarded the applicant 77,603.50 russian roubles (rub)[1]. in may 2003 the applicant filed a writ of execution with a bailiff. on 17 june 2003, on the application of the bank, the district court terminated the enforcement of its judgment in view of the group settlement. the district court said:
considering the nature of the legal relationship at issue, the court takes into account the fact that the enforcement proceedings have been instituted with the purpose of collecting from [russian credit] the liabilities that had come into existence before 18 october 1999 inclusive and, under the ... terms of the friendly settlement, are related to [the bank’s] restructured liabilities subject to novation on the terms of the friendly settlement approved by a [court decision] that had defined the procedure and terms of the extinction of the liabilities. pursuant to section 23 § 2 of the federal law on enforcement proceedings, the conclusion of a friendly settlement between a creditor and a debtor constitutes a ground for the termination of the enforcement proceedings, and therefore the [bank’s] application shall be granted and the [enforcement proceedings] shall be terminated. in july 2003, in reply to the applicant’s query, the bank’s external administrator informed the applicant that his deposit had not been on the books and that under the terms of the group settlement his judgment debt could not be paid. on 14 august 2003 the moscow city court upheld the district court’s decision, finding that the applicant’s individual claim was to be settled with the group claim. the city court said:
when terminating the [enforcement] proceedings the [district court] has referred to the provisions of section 439 of the code of civil procedure and reached the conclusion that the terms of the said friendly settlement regarding the restructuring of the credit obligations of [russian credit] extended also to [the applicant]. the [city court] agrees with the said conclusion of the [district court] as based on the provisions of the law and confirmed by the circumstances of the present case.
their initials, dates of birth, application numbers and the other details of their cases are set out in the appendix. at the time of lodging their applications the applicants were detained at detention centres for foreign nationals run by the federal migration service (hereinafter “the fms”) in different towns in russia. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows. on various dates between 2012 and 2016 the applicants came to russia on various visas and did not leave when the period of their stay had expired. all the applicants sought to obtain refugee status and/or temporary asylum in russia. some of the applicants voluntarily withdrew their requests and others’ requests were rejected, first by the fms and then by the domestic courts which examined the appeals against the fms’s refusals. according to their submissions, the centre was based in an eight-storey building with windows covered with grills; five of the storeys were designed to accommodate 176 people in total. each storey comprised around ten to eleven cells. in particular, according to a report of the human rights ombudsman in saint petersburg, on 26 february 2014 the centre accommodated 400 foreign nationals. 511, located on the fifth storey, which measured around 9 square metres and was designed to accommodate six people. thus, each detainee had no more than 1.5 square metres of personal space, despite the statutory requirement that each detainee in a detention centre for foreign nationals have at least 4.5 square metres of personal space. the cell was furnished with three bunk beds and two bedside tables. the food was of poor quality, with no fruit or vegetables, and included pork, which the applicants could not eat for religious reasons. detainees were not allowed to receive fermented milk products, home‑cooked food, fruit or vegetables. detainees had no free access to drinking water or devices to boil tap water. one of the bathrooms was for their exclusive use. outdoor exercise was sporadic and lasted around 15-20 minutes. in the period april-may 2014 they were able to enjoy outdoor exercise only four times. the facility did not offer any activities, and no library was available. according to the lawyer representing b.z.,
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. on 11 july 2000 the adana magistrate’s court ordered the detention of the applicant in absentia. on 20 july 2000 the applicant was questioned by the gendarmerie in the absence of his lawyer. in his statement, the applicant gave a detailed description about his involvement in an illegal organisation and the activities in which he had taken part. subsequently, he was brought before the public prosecutor at the adana state security court. during the interview, the applicant stated, again in the absence of a lawyer, that his statements made to the gendarmerie had been correct. on 15 september 2000 the investigating judge at the mardin magistrate’s court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention, again in the absence of a lawyer. on 24 october 2000 the public prosecutor lodged an indictment before the adana state security court, charging the applicant under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory. on 25 october 2005 the adana assize court convicted the applicant as charged. on 26 april 2006 the court of cassation quashed the conviction. on 6 november 2007 the adana assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the gendarmerie and the public prosecutor, the applicant had committed the offence under section 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 12 november 2008 the court of cassation upheld the conviction.
the applicants were born in 1982 and 1981 respectively. on 22 april 2006 upon receipt of intelligence reports that the youth branch of the pkk would be holding a meeting in the premises of a cooperative, the police officers, under the orders of the magistrates’ court, conducted a search in the premises of the co-operative of which the applicants were members. the police seized several documents and cds that contained propaganda materials related to the youth branch of the pkk. on the same day the applicants were taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a terrorist organisation. on 24 april 2006 the urfa magistrates’ court ordered the applicants’ detention on remand. on 27 april 2006 and 28 april 2006, respectively, the applicants filed objections against their pre-trial detention. the courts rejected their request on the basis of the case-file, without holding a hearing. during the pre-trial stage, the magistrates’ court continued to examine, by virtue of article 108 of law no. 5271, the necessity of applicants’ continued detention every thirty days on the basis of the case file, without holding an oral hearing. the applicants also filed objections against their continued pre-trial detention, namely on 15 june, 12 july, 17 july, 1 august and 17 october 2006. all these objections were examined on the basis of the case file and were rejected by the domestic courts. on 10 october 2006 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court charging the applicants, along with twenty three other persons, with aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation under article 314 of the criminal code (law no. on 30 november 2006 the diyarbakır assize court held its first hearing and the applicants appeared before the court. on the same day, the applicants were released pending trial. on 4 november 2008 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicants of the charges against them. in the absence of an appeal, this judgment became final on 12 november 2008.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in ankara. the applicant is the owner of an apartment in ankara. on an unspecified date, the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court against the çankaya municipality and the ankara metropolitan municipality for the annulment of the construction permit pertaining to a neighboring building which was being built opposite his apartment. on 14 december 1999 the ankara administrative court accepted the applicant’s request and revoked the construction permit based on a breach of height restrictions. according to this judgment, the building in question was constructed 1.48 meters higher than the norm that was laid down in the zoning plan in force. on 17 february 2000 the çankaya municipal executive committee (belediye encümeni) ordered the demolition of the illegally constructed part of the building in order to comply with the administrative court’s judgment. however, it did not implement the said decision. on 19 november 2001 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s judgment. in the meantime, on 3 august 2001 the çankaya municipal council (belediye meclisi) amended the zoning plan and sent its decision to the ankara metropolitan municipality for approval. on 26 october 2001 the ankara metropolitan municipality withheld its approval, holding that the zoning plan had been amended with the aim of legalizing the previously revoked building permit and thereby avoiding the demolition of the illegal construction. on 5 december 2001 the çankaya municipal council insisted in its previous decision and the amended zoning plan thus came into force. subsequently on 31 december 2001 the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court for the annulment of the çankaya municipal council’s decision of 5 december 2001. on 31 march 2003 the ankara administrative court annulled the said decision for, inter alia, encouraging unlicensed construction practices. on 21 february 2005 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s decision and on 18 october 2005 it rejected the çankaya municipality’s rectification request. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 december 2005.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in babushkin, republic of buryatiya, russia. allegedly, police officers threatened him with murder and ill-treatment if he refused to make a confession. on 7 january 2005 an investigator compiled an arrest record. the applicant in the present case before the court. on 6 june 2007 the sverdlovsk regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the judgment. she stated that she had had access to the file and had then told d., the applicant’s relative, about his hiv status to prove that the applicant was not a good person. the regional court then considered that the applicant was entitled to judicial review and ordered the district court to re-examine the issue. in the resumed proceedings, on 13 february 2009 the district court noted that the applicant no longer wished to pursue the judicial complaint, and discontinued it. on 28 september 2009 the district court confirmed the refusal to prosecute dated 23 january 2009. the judge noted (apparently with reference to 2007) that for some time the institution of criminal proceedings had been refused because “at the time no written statement could be obtained from [the applicant] in relation to his complaint”. the prosecutor had acted promptly by taking decisions on 5 october and 29 december 2007 and on 30 december 2008. apparently, the applicant did not appeal. the applicant provided the following account of his conditions of detention. 301, which measured 20 square metres and accommodated five people. on 18 january 2005 the applicant was transferred to cell no. the toilet was not separated from the main area. from 19 january to 4 april 2005 the applicant was in cell no. 205, which measured 20 square metres and accommodated up to twenty-five people, despite having only sixteen beds. for instance, on 15 february 2006 the prisons department of the sverdlovsk region dismissed one of his complaints, whilst indicating that the actual number of detainees in the remand centre exceeded the design capacity of this detention facility. by a letter of 2 december 2008 the prosecutor’s office of the sverdlovsk region informed the applicant that, following an inspection, it could be not confirmed that the cell toilets were not separated from the main area.
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in bezhetsk, tver region. according to the indictment, on 15 october 2010 ms k., who had not been previously known to the applicant, invited him and mr a. to the apartment of mr x. in the apartment they found mr x. lying on the floor in a state of heavy alcoholic intoxication. the applicant told ms k., who witnessed the attack, to “forget everything” and gave her 100 russian roubles (rub) (2.5 euros (eur)). on 18 october 2010 ms k., aged twenty-four at the time, was voluntarily hospitalised for treatment of alcohol-induced psychosis and seizures after she had an epileptic seizure on the street. the criminal case against the applicant and mr a. was examined by the tsentralniy district court of tver (центральный районный суд г. твери) (hereinafter “the district court”). on 17 january 2011 during a pre-trial hearing the district court granted applications lodged by the applicant’s defence lawyer to have the medical records of ms k. produced in court at trial. on 24 january 2011 the district court received extracts of ms k.’s medical history provided by a regional psychiatric hospital. in october 2010, during the sixth hospitalisation since 2008, she had been hallucinating, anxious, aggressive, rude and unaware of the current date. on 27 january 2011 the district court received a certificate from a regional psychoneurology clinic. on 2 and 8 february 2011 the district court heard several prosecution witnesses, mostly relatives, neighbours and acquaintances of the persons involved. ms k. was duly summoned to both hearings, but did not appear and provided no reasons for her absence. the prosecutor’s request that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court was denied and the hearing was adjourned until further information on the witness’s health had been received from the doctors. on the same day during the hearing, the prosecutor, referring to the above-mentioned letter, repeatedly requested that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court on account of her in-patient treatment, the fact that her presence at trial could not be ensured, and because the date of her discharge from the clinic was unclear. between 24 february and 6 april 2011 the district court held at least six further hearings. he submitted that in the absence of a forensic psychiatric examination, it was impossible to rely on the testimony of a person suffering from an organic mental disorder and alcohol dependency. her hospitalisation in a psychiatric facility in a delusional state and her interrogation less than one week after the alleged crime had made any testimony unreliable. this fact is further confirmed by the testimony of ms d., the investigator, given at trial.] accordingly there are no reasons to consider that the witness could not correctly perceive or recount the events. moreover [her] mental state received consideration during the hearing. [
the applicant was born in 1982 in venezuela and is currently detained in valdemoro prison. count four); and one count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute one or more kilograms of heroin, a schedule i controlled substance, in violation of title 21, united states code, sections 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(a)(i), and 846, and title 18, united states code, sections 3551 et seq. ( 4 (juzgado central de instrucción) initiated extradition proceedings on the same day and ordered his provisional release. on 1 october 2014 the audiencia nacional granted the extradition request on condition that the us authorities provided a guarantee that any life sentence that was handed down would not be irreducible. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. on 3 november 2014 the ruling was upheld by the plenary of the criminal section of the audiencia nacional. the applicant subsequently lodged a plea of nullity (incidente de nulidad de actuaciones) against that decision. on 23 january 2015 the public prosecutor submitted a report stating that the guarantees provided by the united states were adequate and that consequently extradition should be granted. lastly, he lodged an application for the general recusal of all the judges of the audiencia nacional who “had been invited by the united states of america on holiday trips” which had been paid for by that country. on 3 june 2015 the audiencia nacional issued a new decision dismissing the súplica appeals lodged by the applicant and confirming the decision on the applicant’s imprisonment pending extradition to the united states. ...
the guarantees provided have been considered sufficient for the court. 57592/08, 3 february 2015)], as well as the judgment of 13 november 2014 [bodein v. france, no. on 19 june 2015 the applicant was detained for the purposes of being extradited to the united states. he requested the court to indicate to the spanish government that his extradition should be stayed pending the outcome of proceedings before the court. the six puppies were bound for the united states, and the heroin they carried was surgically removed. a timely admission of guilt is a factor which could reduce the sentence the judge decides to impose following a conviction. thus, if lopez elorza were willing and able to provide substantial assistance to the united states in the investigation or prosecution of another person who had committed a crime, a plea agreement might include a promise by the government attorneys, in exchange for his guilty plea, to file a motion with the court asking that lopez elorza’s cooperation be taken into account and permitting the court to impose a lower sentence that it might otherwise impose. as regards the estimated sentence that the applicant could face, the us report stated firstly that, “in imposing a sentence in a federal criminal case, the judge must consult the u.s. however, the report indicated that according to the us federal sentencing guidelines, the advisory sentencing range was “188 to 235 months incarceration, far less than the possible life sentence provided for under the statutes with which he was charged”. the report specifically stressed that the bureau of prisons could reduce the applicant’s sentence if it found that there was “an extraordinary and compelling reason to do so; for example, if a medical condition arose with lópez elorza that would warrant such a modification”.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in nizhniy novgorod region. they found that the applicant was self-confident, domineering and inclined to lie. i. took good care of the children and did not prevent them from seeing their father. it was clear from the audio recordings submitted by the applicant, as analysed by a psychologist, that the applicant had attempted to manipulate the children and to force them to make a choice between the parents. according to witness statements, i. had always taken good care of the children. it was i. who had always accompanied them to school and extracurricular activities. given that i. had never prevented the applicant from seeing the children, the applicant would be able to visit them as often as he liked, while the children would continue living in the environment familiar to them. on 22 march 2013 the childcare authority issued its opinion on the case. the childcare authorities had however learned that she had secretly seen a psychologist. the court took note of the expert report of 19 january 2012 (see paragraph 11 above), observing that the experts had found that the parent-child relationships were complicated in the applicant’s family. a cassation appeal by the applicant was rejected by a judge of the vladimir regional court on 14 may 2014. both v. and n. had stated many times that they wanted to live with him. he paid child maintenance without delay and regularly gave additional financial support to the children. the applicant and i. were attending mediation sessions. she therefore asked that the residence order previously granted to her be maintained. she did not prevent the applicant from seeing the children as much as he liked. the childcare authorities had found that the children had been equally attached to both parents. on 3 march 2016 the vladimir regional court upheld that decision on appeal. on 4 february 2016 the leninskiy district court rejected the applicant’s complaint, finding that those authorities had no competence in the matter. on 24 may 2016 the leninskiy district court refused the applicant’s application for an interim order, finding that he had not proved that the failure to take interim measures might complicate or make impossible the execution of the forthcoming judgment.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in čačak. on 7 september 2005 the applicant instituted civil proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor seeking redress regarding various contractual issues. on 4 december 2008 the court of first instance in kotor ruled in favour of the applicant. on 17 november 2009 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal. on 20 may 2010 the supreme court quashed the previous judgments and ordered a re-trial. on 12 august 2011 the court of first instance in kotor ruled against the applicant. this judgment was upheld by the high court in podgorica and the supreme court on 6 april 2012 and 12 september 2012 respectively. the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicant on 20 october 2012. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 28 november 2012. on 30 june 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 25 september 2015.
they were born in 1971, 1968, 1992, 1995, and live in samara. on 26 april 2004 the oktyabrskiy district court of samara (“the oktyabrskiy district court”) ordered, inter alia, the management of the state unitary enterprise “16th military plant” (“the company”) to provide the applicants with a suitable dwelling, while keeping their names on the list of persons awaiting housing. on 11 may 2004 the judgment came into force. on 28 may 2004 the department of the bailiffs’ service for oktyabrskiy district of samara opened the enforcement proceedings. on 22 december 2004 the enforcement proceedings were terminated as the company had no available residential accommodation. on 1 october 2007, due to the reorganisation of the company (see paragraph 16 below), the enforcement file was sent to the department of the bailiffs’ service for the engelsskiy district of saratov region. on 21 april 2008 the bailiffs ruled that it was impossible to enforce the judgment in the part relating to the housing, as the new debtor, fgup 9 tsarz (see paragraph 16 below), had no available accommodation. the enforcement proceedings were terminated. on 26 august 2009 the engelsskiy district court of saratov region, following the bailiffs’ application, replaced the debtor in the enforcement proceedings from fgup 9 tsarz to oao 9 tsarz (see paragraph 17 below). on 14 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court clarified the judgment of 26 april 2004 stating that the applicants should be provided with an apartment in samara. several times in 2004-2011 the parties applied to the oktyabrskiy district court for changing the mode of enforcement of the judgment. each time the courts rejected the applications finding that a payment of the amount representing the cost of an apartment would be equal to modifying the original judgment. the judgment of 26 april 2004 remained unenforced. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. according to its articles of association, the company’s aim was to produce goods and render services for the ministry of defense of russia, as well as for meeting other public needs and making a profit. under the order of the federal agency for state property management dated 22 september 2005 the company was joined to fgup 9 tsarz (fgup 9 tsentralnyy avtomobilnyy remontnyy zavod – фгуп 9 царз or фгуп 9 центральный автомобильный ремонтный завод). the reorganisation was completed on 13 february 2007, and the latter company became the universal successor of the company. in accordance with the decree of the president of russia of 15 september 2008 and the decree of the russian government of 22 november 2008, fgup 9 tsarz was further reorganized into oao 9 tsarz, a publicly-traded private open joint-stock company incorporated under the laws of russia.
the applicants were born in 1977, 1978, 1977, 1981, 1981, 1980, 1982 and 1980 respectively. around the same time similar petitions were submitted by students studying at various universities in turkey. upon receipt of these petitions a disciplinary investigation was initiated by the university into the applicants’ actions. on 14 february 2002, relying either on regulation 9(d) or on regulation 10(e) of the disciplinary regulations of higher education institutions, the administrative board of istanbul university, after having heard defence submissions from some of the applicants, either suspended them from the university for a period of two semesters (mr çölgeçen and mr salim) or expelled them from the university (mr bek, mr çalışkan, ms işık, mr ay, mr uçak and mr turğay). some of the applicants also alleged that they were subject to criminal investigations. on 9 may 2002 and on 27 june 2002 (in respect of the fifth applicant) the istanbul administrative court suspended the execution of the applicants’ disciplinary sanctions on the grounds that, inter alia, the sanctions in question were unlawful and that, therefore, their application would cause irreparable damage to the applicants. on 25 june 2002, following the notification of the aforementioned decisions to the university, the applicants, save for mr çalışkan, were all re-enrolled in their respective faculties. as a result they were allowed to take part in the repeat exams held on 1-12 july 2002. mr çalışkan was re‑enrolled on 23 july 2002 and he was allowed to sit his exams, upon his request, in the 2002-2003 spring midterm period. on 12 and 19 december 2002 the istanbul administrative court examined the merits of the cases and annulled the disciplinary sanctions against the applicants on the ground that they were unlawful. between march 2007 and march 2008 the istanbul district administrative court quashed the judgments of the first-instance court and dismissed the actions. the provisions of international treaties are reserved”. the persons concerned may then bring an action before the administrative courts requesting the annulment of the administrative act and compensation for the damage they have sustained (section 12 of the administrative procedure act). the proceedings before the administrative courts are in writing. article 27 § 2 of the administrative procedure act stipulates that the supreme administrative court or a lower administrative court may decide to stay the execution of an administrative act if its implementation would result in damage which would be difficult or impossible to compensate, and if this act is clearly unlawful. on 2 august 2002 the law on foreign language education and teaching (law no. 2923 of 14 october 1983) was amended by law no. on 30 july 2003 an amendment was made to the second sentence of section 2 (a) of law no. 2923 with a view to enabling the opening of private courses for the teaching of the different languages and dialects used by citizens of turkey. this provision was further amended on 2 march 2014 by law no.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kalush. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. having accepted this offer, the three of them signed a written undertaking to vacate flat a when they moved to flat b. 7. and joined him, his parents and brother to live in flat a. 8. company transferred ownership of flat a to the municipality. according to the applicant, she and her son remained residents in flat a, as her marriage with v.d. was falling apart and living together had become intolerable. company decided to reallocate flat a to the family of r., its employee, who lived in an accommodation hall (гуртожиток). company lodged a claim in the kalush town court, seeking, in particular, to evict the applicant and her son from flat a. it argued that there was no legal basis for them to remain in the property, which had been reallocated to a new tenant (r.). on 25 july 2006 the court dismissed the claim for the eviction of the applicant and her son. she and her son had never promised to relocate and had remained residents of flat a at the material time. they could therefore not be evicted without being provided with alternative accommodation. company had transferred flat a to municipal ownership. company appealed, referring to article 55 of the housing code. it had therefore had legitimate standing to seek the vacation of the flat by its previous tenants. the applicant lodged a request for leave to appeal in cassation. she noted that she and her minor son had been lawful and registered residents of the disputed flat for eight years. unlike her former husband and in-laws, she and her son had not given any promises to vacate flat a and had not acquired any rights to live in flat b with them. on 25 december 2006 the local registration authority annulled the applicant’s and her son’s registration as residents of flat a. 24. she submitted testimony given by various acquaintances and copies of some fixed-term lease agreements.
the applicants’ details can be found in the annex. on 18 april 2011 their physical cohabitation was registered and since then they have been considered as a family unit for statistical purposes. on 9 september 2011 the two applicants asked the italian consulate in toronto to transmit to the civil status office in italy the relevant documents for the purposes of registration of their marriage. on 16 august 2011 the two applicants got married in toronto, ontario, canada. on 20 january 2012, the commune of peschiera borromeo informed the two applicants that it was not possible to register their marriage. according to the applicants’ submissions of 30 january 2017 their request was still pending and no reply had yet been received. the two applicants met in italy in 2002 and entered into a stable and committed relationship with each other. mr bray, who is canadian, did not have a residence permit in italy at the time, mr isita therefore travelled repeatedly to canada. the two applicants married in the hague on 1 june 2002. the court of cassation went on to note that the social reality had changed, yet the italian order had not granted same-sex couples the right to marry as concluded in the court of cassation judgment no. however, the italian legal order was also made up of article 12 of the convention as interpreted by the european court of human rights in schalk and kopf (cited above); in that case the court considered that the difference of sex of spouses was irrelevant, legally, for the purposes of marriage. its articles 115 and 130, in so far as relevant, read as follows:
article 115
“a citizen is subject to the provisions of section one [conditions to contract marriage] of this chapter even when contracting marriage in a foreign state according to the form applicable in such foreign state ...”
article 130
“nobody is entitled to claim the title of spouse and the legal consequences of marriage unless a certified copy of the celebration as recorded in the family registers is presented.” article 17 relates to the transmission of the deed, and according to article 18 deeds contracted abroad may not be registered if they are contrary to public order. such a notion included homosexual unions, understood as a stable cohabitation of two people of the same sex, who have a fundamental right to freely express their personality in a couple, obtaining – in time and by the means and limits to be set by law – a juridical recognition of the relevant rights and duties. 276/2010 of 7 july 2010 filed in the registry on 22 july 2010, and 4/2011 of 16 december 2010 filed in the registry on 5 january 2011, declared manifestly ill-founded claims that the above-mentioned articles of the civil code (in so far as they did not allow marriage between persons of the same sex) were not in conformity with article 2 of the constitution. by a first-instance decision of 2 february 2015 the tribunal of grosseto again ordered the competent public authority to proceed with its registration. 1156, filed in the relevant registry on 8 july 2015, the milan court of appeal found in favour of the claimants. 144 of the president of the council of ministers of 23 july 2016, which came into force on 29 july 2016, transitory provisions were adopted pending the relevant legislative decrees mentioned above (under article 28). the relevant council of europe materials can be found in oliari and others (cited above, §§ 56-61). the comparative law material available to the court on the introduction of official forms of non-marital partnership within the legal systems of council of europe (coe) member states shows that fifteen countries (belgium, denmark, finland, france, germany, iceland, ireland, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, norway, portugal, spain, sweden and the united kingdom) recognise same-sex marriage.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in korostyshiv. incriminating i., and submitted the file to the applicant. the same scheme was used to exploit i. on the construction site. it contains a note by the investigator to the effect that sh. on 23 january 2008 i. was interviewed by the investigator. after his release, he had agreed to work for the applicant in return for payment and had carried out construction work for him in june and october 2007. he had then stopped working for the applicant. on 8 november 2007 he had been taken from his home by police officers, who had told him that the applicant had accused him of stealing some cables from the building site. he had not requested that i. be sent there. i. had worked voluntarily and for remuneration. b., the head of the detention facility, testified that in late october or early november 2007 the applicant had told him that i. had stolen some things from his construction site and had asked b. to bring i. to him. on 8 november 2007 he had taken i. from his home to the police station. on 21 november 2007 the applicant had called personally and asked that i. be handed over for such work. on 8 july 2009 the police reported that i. could not be found at his last known address in radomyshl and that his whereabouts were unknown. was not living at his address and his whereabouts were unknown. his mother gave the same explanation for his absence. had taken i. from the detention facility;
(e)  the statements of witnesses p.s. the applicant questioned the trial court’s decision to trust the statements given by i., a drunk who had a prior conviction for murder and who had failed to remember the content of the notarised statement he had signed just weeks before, which showed that he was susceptible to signing anything presented to him by the investigator. on 22 april 2010 the supreme court held a hearing to examine the appeal. the court upheld the remainder of the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is currently detained in lannemezan prison. on 25 july, 17 and 26 august, 3, 4 and 7 september and 6 and 17 october 1995 eight terrorist attacks were carried out in france. led to a number of persons being arrested and to the search being focused on the united kingdom and an individual named elyes (also known as elyesse or eliass). on the premises the investigators found, among other items, the following: contracts for three mobile phones in the names of three of the applicants’ acquaintances and corresponding to the numbers identified at the home of b.b., on 7 november 1995 the applicant was detained pending extradition under the terms of an international arrest warrant issued on the same day in connection with the investigation into the attack carried out on 6 october 1995 close to the maison blanche metro station. the applicant lodged habeas corpus applications which were dismissed in june 1997 and in 2001. with regard to the gia’s funding the court, having noted the prosecution’s claims that the applicant had funded the gia groups which carried out the attacks in france during the second half of 1995, examined the factual evidence in the case file at length and in detail. this was established by the statements of the british police officers tasked with keeping the applicant under surveillance and of the staff of the western union branch where the transfer had been made, and also by the discovery of the applicant’s fingerprints on the transfer slip kept by the western union branch. the court also observed that one of the perpetrators of the attacks, b.b., the court inferred that the facts as a whole “demonstrate[d] that rachid ramda was indeed responsible for funding terrorist groups on french soil”. in a judgment of 14 march 2007 the court of cassation dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant. the applicant faced trial for aiding and abetting the crimes of murder, attempted murder, destroying or damaging property belonging to others by the use of an explosive substance causing death, mutilation or permanent disability and temporary total unfitness for work of over eight days or of a maximum of eight days, in connection with a terrorist enterprise, and for the related offence of a breach of the explosives legislation in connection with a terrorist enterprise. in these judgments the judges noted in particular the following facts in relation to the applicant. ’s accounts for the sum of “5,000 pounds sterling from [w.], converted at a rate of 7.5%”; a sum of gbp 6,945 had been sent on 20 july 1995; between 20 and 25 july 1995 the sum of frf 300 had been entered as expenditure for the purchase of a “gb ticket”, demonstrating that the funds, after being exchanged in england, had been transported to paris in the days leading up to the attack at the saint‑michel suburban rail station; and a letter from british telecom had been found, addressed to “walid” at 122 hamlet gardens, the applicant’s address. furthermore, the day before the attack and then on the day itself, the applicant had received calls from france on his various numbers, including from a payphone close to the previous one, concerning his role as an intermediary between the perpetrators of the attacks and the person masterminding them in algeria. above all, the investigation division noted that the applicant had on 2 and 20 july 1995 sent sums of gbp 5,000 and gbp 6,945 respectively which were directly linked to the attack carried out on 25 july 1995. it sentenced him to life imprisonment with a minimum term of twenty-two years. the applicant appealed on 29 october 2007. 10, 19, 24, 30, 35, 42, 48, 56 and 61) and whether the applicant had issued instructions to others to commit certain crimes (questions nos. the parties did not comment on these questions.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in vila nova de gaia. on 26 november 1997 mr fernandes was admitted to the ear, nose and throat (ent) department of vila nova de gaia hospital (“the chvng”) for a nasal polypectomy. he underwent the operation on 27 november 1997 and was discharged from hospital on 28 november 1997 at 10 a.m. 12. he was prescribed a special diet and medication. a medical appointment was fixed for 9 february 1998. the applicant’s husband continued to suffer from severe abdominal pain and diarrhoea. a colonoscopy revealed infectious ulcerative colitis. discharged the latter on 3 february 1998. on 5 march 1998 mr fernandes was examined by a doctor who judged the situation to be under control. on 30 october and 23 december 1998 the regional health authority for the north region sent the applicant copies of the reports drawn up by the chvng and santo antónio hospital on the basis of her husband’s medical records. the report of the investigation was submitted on 28 november 2002. on 28 march 2003 the inspector general for health informed the applicant that he had set aside the order of 12 december 2002 and ordered the reopening of the investigation. the inspector general for health wrote to the applicant on 2 march 2006 informing her that he had set aside his previous order and ordered fresh expert assessments to be carried out by different experts in the fields of internal medicine and gastroenterology. the applicant gave evidence again on 27 april 2006. the role of the corticosteroids in aggravating or reactivating the peptic ulcer ... is not currently considered a risk factor ... however, given that the patient had already experienced one episode of intestinal bleeding, there would have been grounds for weighing up the use of these drugs. she alleged, inter alia,
(i)  that her husband’s meningitis had been caused by pseudomonas cepacia bacteria which, she alleged, had been present in the operating theatre during the nasal polypectomy;
(ii)  that the meningitis had been diagnosed too late, allowing the illness to become serious;
(iii)  that the administering of excessive doses of medication and the lack of a suitable prophylactic had caused the duodenal ulcer which had led to her husband’s death. accordingly, it declared the claim admissible only in respect of the hospitals. taking into account the medical records of the applicant’s husband and the various statements made by the witnesses who had given evidence, the court considered it established, inter alia,
(i)  that a polypectomy was a straightforward surgical operation which posed minimal risk and that the patient had been informed accordingly;
(ii)  that the operating theatre had been aseptic and sterilised at the time of the polypectomy;
(iii)  that the origin of the bacterium linked to the patient’s meningitis had not been proven. ...
on 25 january 1998 the patient again attended vila nova de gaia hospital, where he was diagnosed with pseudomembranous colitis caused by clostridium difficile ... the colitis was successfully treated in that hospital ...;
throughout his stay in vila nova de gaia hospital he was given treatment to protect his stomach. however, it has not been demonstrated that the therapy or medication administered to [mr fernandes] at any point was unsuited to his clinical condition.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. on 25 october 2002 the military court of the vladikavkaz garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military institute to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for a specified period of service. the applicant was also awarded some additional allowances and payments for certain periods. the judgment came into force on 5 november 2002. on 3 march 2003 the military court issued a writ of execution. on 4 august 2003 the bailiffs’ service instituted the enforcement proceedings. on 19 september 2003 the enforcement proceedings were terminated and the writ of execution was returned to the applicant, as the debt could not be recovered. on 13 november 2003 the head of the respondent military institute issued order no. 463 requiring to make payments in accordance with the judgment of 25 october 2002. however, no calculations or payments were made at that time. on 4 february 2005 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the federal treasury. on 18 may 2005 the writ was returned to the applicant on the ground that the judgment obliged an official of an organisation to take certain actions rather than ordered to recover payments from a budgetary organisation. thus, the writ of execution was to be submitted to the bailiffs’ service. on an unspecified date in 2005 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the bailiffs’ service. on 14 april 2006 the writ of execution was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement. the bailiffs explained that for the applicant to be able to receive the payments under the judgment, he should obtain a writ of execution stating the sum of the debt to be recovered. after that, the writ could be submitted to the federal treasury for enforcement. 463, the defendant military institute calculated the amounts due to the applicant as follows: the compensation for the supplementary ration for the period from october 1998 until march 2000 –11,341.85 russian roubles (rub); allowance for special regime of the service in 1998-2002 – rub 2,720.1; and special allowance – rub 327,000.
the applicants were born in 1963, 1976 and 1961 respectively and at the time the applications were lodged were detained in the corradino correctional facility, paola. the criminal court also ordered the applicant to pay a fine of 30,000 euros (eur) as well as eur 1,898.21 in fees payable to the court experts, which were to be converted into a further eighteen months’ imprisonment if not paid. during that time he had also carried out paid work assembling plastic toys. the water supply was inadequate and he had to use a bucket to flush the toilet. relying on an indistinct photo submitted to the court, the government submitted that the applicant had covered the ventilation grilles on the wall with masking tape, thereby restricting the ventilation. the government submitted that the prison psychologist was not in a position to prescribe medicine or to refer inmates to the psychiatric hospital. the cell walls contained asbestos and the old paint was peeling off the walls and the ceiling. no heating was provided in the cells and the blankets were not adequate. the government submitted that the walls did not contain asbestos but were built from maltese limestone. the government claimed that the applicant had stated that he would never paint his cell himself because he felt that this was the responsibility of the prison officials. the government denied that the building was infested by rats and cockroaches, pointing out that pest control treatment had been carried out sixteen times at the prison since 2013 (certificates confirming the application of pest control in specific areas of the prison, including division 3, were submitted to the court). should a special diet be prescribed by the medical doctor, the food thereby indicated would be provided by the prison authorities. by a judgment of 28 june 2016 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence dismissed the second applicant’s complaint. blankets and clothing: it sufficiently results that, upon entering the correctional facility, inmates are issued with a residential kit consisting of blankets, sheets, pillows and a mattress; if required, inmates may ask their division officer for more blankets. no appeal appears to have been lodged against this judgment. it had three metal bars which hampered the entry of natural light. according to the third applicant, the temperature in his cell may be as low as 10 oc during winter, and yet he is not allowed to have a heater in his cell. furthermore, his cell became very hot and there was inadequate ventilation. moreover, the metal bars at the window were a security feature and did not prevent natural light from entering the cell. they noted that the third applicant had been referred to the state hospital in december 2011 for a common migraine and medication was prescribed as stated above.
the applicant was born in 1977 and at the time that he lodged the application with the court was serving a sentence of eight years’ imprisonment in the corradino correctional facility, malta. the sentence was imposed on him by the criminal court on 14 march 2012 for drug related offences. according to the government, disciplinary measures were taken against another inmate involved in the incident but not against the applicant, who had been transferred (from division 2) to division 6, a more secure division, immediately after the incident. thereafter he had been kept in solitary confinement without assistance from the prison medical staff. consequently he had to drink warm water and an occasional bottle of cold water (when his friend managed to obtain one). later, he had refused to consult the prison psychiatrist because he no longer trusted the prison staff and did not want to be sent to a psychiatric hospital since the facilities there were allegedly worse than those in the prison. according to the government the applicant was admitted to the medical infirmary of the prison at 4.15 p.m. on 12 july 2013 and a referral to the emergency department of the state hospital was made at 5 p.m. the referral note issued by the doctor indicated that the applicant had swelling in the face, a bruise on one loin, and severe swelling with limited movement in his right ankle. at an unspecified time on the same day he was provided with a pair of crutches by the prison medical infirmary. on the same day he was also admitted to hospital and returned to cell 8 in division 6 on 14 july 2013. records also showed that a nurse had visited division 6 to attend to the applicant on 15 july – the note in the register reads as follows: “nurse c. and s. came to division 6 at about 11.35 am to visit fernando soto in his cell”. the government submitted that the applicant had been held in division 6 for his own safety. the government submitted that, by order of a manager, on 21 july 2013 the applicant had been allowed to mingle with all other inmates without restriction. moreover, in april 2015 the applicant had been referred for psychiatric services by the psychologist. the applicant had at the time already been taking antibiotics and his stitches were intact. the applicant was also referred to the ophthalmology department on 5 august 2013. it was also small and had three different bands of metal shutters, which hampered the entry of natural light. he claimed that his cell had lacked good ventilation – although there were two vents, one of them had been blocked. he claimed that foreign inmates were treated differently from the maltese inmates since the former had to wait longer to have their petitions decided. in a letter dated 5 august 2015, the applicant alleged that the prison authorities had refused to forward his letters to the court in order to dissuade him from pursuing his case before it. he was therefore corresponding with the court through another address.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in switzerland. he grew up in iran and entered switzerland in 2009. he then managed to hide with his relatives. he had also contradicted himself regarding his transportation from the prison to court and his escape. the documents submitted by the applicant could not lead to a different result as they could easily be bought in iran and falsified. moreover, the alleged conduct of the iranian authorities in sending a court summons to the applicant’s home after his escape, rather than going there to arrest him on the spot, was not credible, nor was his submission that the judgment of 21 july 2009 had been sent to his home and given to a neighbour prior to his departure. he submitted a copy of his baptism certificate, issued by a pentecostal church, a protestant house church, to support his account. on 17 january 2014 the asylum authorities, who treated the applicant’s request as a second asylum application, questioned the applicant in person. a member of a non-governmental organisation was present as a neutral witness in order to guarantee the fairness of the hearing. during the hearing, the applicant stated that he had first had contact with a catholic church in switzerland in 2011 and then with the pentecostal church from early 2013. he had regularly attended church services and after about six or seven months had been baptised in that church. the applicant did not make any submissions regarding the risk allegedly caused by the broken relationship with his father and the latter’s ties to the secret service. they considered that his conversion to christianity did not in and of itself expose him to a real risk of ill-treatment. based on his statement, they considered that he did not intend to practise his faith in such a manner. there were no indications that the iranian authorities were even aware of his conversion. a christian convert faced a much greater risk of ill-treatment than those born into the christian religion. his conversion to christianity was genuine and lasting. in that connection, he had signed a letter of protest addressed by the organisers to the iranian government, which were thus aware of his conversion. on 14 june 2016 the asylum authorities rejected his application, which they had treated as a further asylum application. the personality of the individuals concerned, the form of their appearances in public and the content of their public statements were relevant parameters in that regard.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in novyy, tatarstan republic, russia. on 13 september 2002 the applicant’s husband was taken to tukayevskiy police station. at around 1 p.m., according to the record, for the purpose of verifying his identity; this verification was completed and he was released at 1.30 p.m. it is also apparent from the evidential material that between 4.15 and 4.45 p.m. the applicant’s husband was in an office, apparently on the fifth floor, where he was interviewed by investigator r. according to the material in the case file record, the applicant’s husband stated during the interview that he and v. had left the house of victim g. after drinking vodka together. the deputy chief officer of the police station, stated that after hearing some noise and seeing officers on the fifth floor balcony, he had gone there and had seen officers f., va. this decision was annulled by the higher prosecutor and the inquiry was reassigned to another investigator. a similar statement was made by paramedics zh. on 3 may 2003 investigator r. issued a decision discontinuing the criminal investigation for absence of any criminal event, while noting that “unidentified officers from the police station had manifestly exceeded their powers when placing [the victim] in an investigation room”. it was also to deal with contradictory statements made by the officers na. it appears that the criminal investigation was reassigned to another investigator, i., who suspended it on 20 july 2003. on 23 august 2003 investigator r. issued a decision discontinuing the criminal investigation in terms that were similar to the decision of 3 may 2003. this decision was subsequently quashed and other similar decisions were issued and quashed on several occasions. on an unspecified date, the investigating officer asked expert va., on 28 january 2010 the investigator issued a decision to discontinue the criminal case because of the absence of a criminal event. a new refusal was issued on 25 september 2010. the medical documents show no indication of any bodily injuries when he was admitted to the hospital. he had detached the jacket and had started to provide first aid to the victim. was interviewed in this connection and confirmed that it would have been possible for the hanging and the strangulation marks to have been created in the circumstances described by f.
interviews were carried out with those police officers at the police station who had talked to the victim on 13 september 2002. there is thus insufficient evidence to consider that any official of the police station abused his or her power or acted in a manner pushing the victim to attempt suicide. neither of the above decisions contains any explanation about the change in the circumstances in which the victim had been discovered ... at the same time, the refusal to prosecute dated 10 december 2003 clearly indicates as an established fact that mr khayrullin had attempted suicide at the balcony of the fifth floor ...
it is apparent from the available material that a criminal investigation was opened under article 286 of the criminal code in respect of unidentified officials; this legal classification has not been changed since 2002; the investigation is ongoing. the ministry of finance and the applicant appealed.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in zemun. during that time a large-scale police operation known as operation sabre (sablja) took place. those arrested were also questioned about other crimes such as murders, abductions and drug trafficking. the applicant’s arrest took place at around 4 p.m. on 1 april 2003, when five members of the special anti-terrorist unit broke into the apartment in which he was hiding with five friends. they put a pillowcase over his head, verbally abused him and made threats aimed at his family. at some point two police officers came and took the applicant for questioning. according to the applicant, the maltreatment continued there. he was beaten with baseball bats and police truncheons. in the cell his handcuffs were taken off and a detention order was put before him for signature. throughout this time, he was not allowed to drink any water. afterwards, he was given one sandwich per day. throughout that period police officers routinely questioned and ill-treated him in the same way as before. these included large haematomas on the soles of his feet, palms of his hands, face, shoulders and buttocks, as well as conjunctival hyperaemia (redness) on the external parts of his eyes. after two months he had fully recovered from the ill-treatment he had suffered. on 18 may 2004 the applicant’s mother lodged a complaint with the inspector general’s service of the ministry of the interior (generalni inspektorat ministarstva unutrašnjih poslova), alleging that her son had been tortured by members of the special anti-terrorist unit and police officers working for the narcotics department of the criminal police directorate (odeljenje za suzbijanje narkomanije uprave kriminalističke policije, also known as the fourth department) in belgrade. gave the names of several of the police officers involved and stated that he had not seen any injuries on the applicant. the officers stated that no violence had ever been used against the applicant. it would appear that the case is still open. on 21 april and 18 november 2008 the investigating judge to whom the case was assigned interviewed three doctors who worked at the prison hospital. on 23 september 2009 the pre-trial chamber of the first belgrade municipal court upheld the decision of the investigating judge.
the applicant, mr grigoriy nikolayevich pleshchinskiy, is a russian national who was born in 1954 and lives in solnechnogorsk, moscow region. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was kept in solnechnogorsk police’s temporary detention centre in overcrowded cells from 2 to 10 october 2003; 20 to 24 october 2003; 17 to 21 november 2003; 21 to 28 november 2003; 22 to 29 december 2003; 26 to 30 january 2004; 2 and 3 february 2004; 31 march to 2 april 2004 and then on several occasions between april and 22 july 2004. there was no tap or other access to water, no proper light, no table on which to eat food and no area for outdoor activities. in the winter the walls and ceiling were covered with ice or damp. the applicant made numerous journeys in 2003-2004 between volokolamsk remand centre and the temporary detention centre in solnechnogorsk, which took three to four hours in an overcrowded van, which was cold in the winter and stuffy in the summer. on 11 july 2005 the applicant sued the state for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage caused by the allegedly appalling conditions of his detention in the temporary detention centre. on 14 november 2005 the solnechnogorsk town court rejected the applicant’s claims. it established that the material conditions of his detention could be explained by insufficient funding. on 22 november and 6 december 2005 the applicant lodged appeals against the decision of 14 november 2005. on 19 december 2005 the applicant was informed that the text of the judgment had been available since 5 december 2005. on an unspecified date the court sent a summons to an appeal hearing which had been scheduled for 30 january 2006. the applicant obtained a title certificate, which, however, named him as the sole owner. after reaching the age of majority, the son sued the father, asserting his right to the flat and seeking an annulment of the above-mentioned certificate. in support of his claim the plaintiff submitted a copy of the housing register, and certificates from his school and kindergarten. all the documents showed that the plaintiff had been permanently residing in solnechnogorsk. however, the competent authority would not issue them unless they were requested by a judge. accordingly, where flats were privatised without payment, they could become owners of the flat together with the adults. furthermore, under the privatisation law then in force, a privatisation agreement had to contain a reference to the minors who enjoyed the right to use the premises in question. on 14 june 2005 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 4 may 2005 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in čurug. on 2 august 2002 the applicant and one of his colleagues (hereinafter “the plaintiffs”) instituted civil proceedings against their employer seeking payment of salary arrears and other employment-related benefits. on 8 february 2013, after two remittals the first instance court in novi sad, specifically its detached section in bečej, ruled partly in favour of the plaintiffs, ordering their employer to pay each of them specified sums in respect of salary arrears. the remainder of their claims was rejected. on 15 april 2013 the court of appeal in novi sad reversed a part of the above judgment, while upholding the remainder. this judgment was served on the plaintiffs on 6 june 2013. on 29 january 2014 the supreme court dismissed the plaintiffs’ appeal on points of law as the value of their respective claims was below the statutory threshold allowing for this remedy. on 9 april 2013 the plaintiffs lodged the constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the impugned proceedings. by its decision of 9 december 2015, the constitutional court found a violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded each of them eur 800 in respect of the non‑pecuniary damage suffered.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently serving a prison sentence in edirne. filed a complaint with the bursa public prosecutor’s office, claiming that they had been threatened by members of a criminal organisation, including the applicant, who had acted under his boss, o.k., and that they had had to give them a substantial amount of money and property as a result. he was placed in police custody on the same day. on 24 march 2001 the applicant gave his police statements. at their homes several times in order to obtain money by threatening them. this time, a report specific to him was drawn up, stating that he had not put forward any physical or psychological complaints during the examination and that there was no indication of ill-treatment on his body. on the same day the applicant gave his statements before the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court. he did not indicate anything with regard to his alleged ill‑treatment. on 21 june 2001 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, accusing the applicant of armed robbery, membership of a criminal organisation and illegally carrying weapons. who he claimed to have been involved in the money transactions at issue and to have been threatened by that second criminal organisation. he requested the opening of criminal proceedings against a total of thirty-one people, accusing them of being members of two separate criminal organisations. on 13 september 2001, at the first hearing before the istanbul state security court, i̇.y. at the second hearing, held on 6 december 2001, the applicant stated before the court that the indictment had not been served on him and that he had not fully understood the charges against him. pay his debts and that he had just asked him to pay their share, without making any threats. he further retracted the previous statements he had made before the police and the public prosecutor. the applicant was not given an opportunity to comment on these submissions. subsequently, the applicant submitted his statements to the court, requesting the examination of two witnesses, a.v.o., at the hearing on 3 september 2002 the istanbul state security court rejected the request, finding that the examination of the witnesses called by the applicant would have no effect on the outcome of the proceedings. it was notified to the applicant by the prison administration on 13 october 2004.
the applicant was born in 1960 and was serving a prison sentence at the time in question. his conviction was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of the autonomous republic of adjara on 19 july 2004. 1, despite the seriousness of his state of health, and that the treatment in that hospital had not produced any results. on 11 june 2008 the vascular specialist recommended that the bandage be changed regularly and the toe treated with antiseptic products. he also prescribed alprostapint infusions. in his view, surgical intervention was not appropriate because the particularly low level of oxygen in the right foot would have hampered the healing of the resulting wound. on 8 september 2008 the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital because of the appeal court’s decision to suspend his prison sentence (see paragraph 28 below). one of the experts who had produced the above-mentioned report confirmed to the court judge that the applicant was seriously ill. on 11 june 2008 the tbilisi city court dismissed the applicant’s request, on the grounds that the prison hospital had a medical service capable of providing the necessary treatment and that the applicant, who was being looked after by specialist doctors, would be transferred to a specialist clinic if necessary. regarding the applicant’s heart condition, the expert had said that the applicant needed treatment in a specialist clinic to prevent sudden death. in their view, a representative of the prisons department was not in a position to assess the danger that detention might pose to the life of the applicant. he added that necrosis of the tissue of the lower limb had set in and was progressively affecting the limb from the bottom up. if that were to continue, the applicant might develop septicemia and die. the applicant’s doctor – a surgeon who was a member of the prison hospital’s permanent staff – also gave evidence before the court of appeal, explaining the diagnosis and confirming that his patient was seriously ill, with the arterial disease having reached the fourth and final stage. the applicant was being given palliative treatment with medicines (antioxidants, protective drugs, sedatives). shortly before the hearing the applicant had been prevented from lying down and had been made to stay in a sitting position. from a cardiological point of view, his heart condition remained serious. with regard to his arteries, the applicant suffered from buerger’s disease, occlusion of the arteries in the right tibia, stenosis of the arteries in the left tibia, chronic arterial deficiency in the right lower limb at the fourth stage of the disease and gangrene of the tissue in the right big toe. the gangrene was still described as progressive. over may and june 2011 the applicant underwent another forensic examination.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in dnipro, ukraine. its banking licence was revoked on 11 january 2001 (see paragraph 12 below). the first applicant was the vice-president, founder and majority shareholder of the applicant bank. in march 2000 the first applicant was arrested as part of the criminal proceedings (for more details see feldman v. ukraine, nos. in april 2000 the ukrainian news agency unian reported on a session of the coordination committee on combating corruption and organised crime. such money‑makers have powerful patrons, and there is great pressure on the investigation,’ stated the president.” on 11 january 2001 the nbu issued a resolution “on the liquidation of slovyanskyy commercial joint-stock bank” by which, among other things, (1) the applicant bank’s operating licence was revoked in full; (2) the powers of the board, the council and the general shareholders’ meetings were terminated; and (3) the applicant bank was ordered to be liquidated. by the same resolution the nbu approved the composition of a liquidation commission for the bank, consisting of eleven officials from the regional departments of the nbu and two members of staff from the local tax office. on 5 march 2001 the first applicant, who was in detention at the time, brought a claim under the rules of chapter 31-a of the code of civil procedure of 1963 with the pechersky district court of kyiv, challenging the nbu’s decision. he maintained that the impugned resolution was unlawful and that the nbu had decided to liquidate the applicant bank owing to its failure to fulfil its financial obligations, whereas that failure had been caused by the nbu itself and the tax authorities. the first applicant emphasised that after the resolution had been adopted, the applicant bank had not been able to protect its rights and interests on its own. on 26 june 2001 the court found that the first applicant could bring a claim, however, it had to be dismissed. the first applicant appealed against that decision. it held that the nbu’s resolution of 11 january 2001 had not concerned the first applicant and it had not been established during the determination of the claim that his rights and freedoms had been violated. for those reasons the court of appeal dismissed the claim. the first applicant appealed on points of law. it found as follows:
“... the first and second-instance courts have established that mr b.m. according to articles 1 and 12 of the code of commercial proceedings, disputes between a subject of entrepreneurial activities and enterprises, institutions and organisations concerning the protection of their rights and freedoms, and their disputes concerning the declaration of legal acts as invalid, should be examined by the commercial courts. the liquidation process of the applicant bank was completed on 30 november 2012. the bank was removed from the legal entities official database on 4 august 2014.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in melitopol. between 2004 and 2006 the applicant was head of melitopol city council’s disadvantaged persons’ welfare centre (центр по обслуговуванню одиноких, непрацездатних та малозабезпечених громадян управління праці, соціального захисту та житлових субсидій мелітопольської міської ради – “the centre”). on 21 april 2006 she was dismissed as part of a reorganisation of the centre. another person was subsequently appointed to a position similar to the one previously occupied by the applicant. in may 2006 the applicant instituted civil proceedings in the melitopolskyy local court (“the melitopolskyy court”) seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 24 october 2006 the court rejected the applicant’s claim. it found that the centre had offered the applicant another position but that she had rejected this proposal, and that a more experienced person had been appointed as the head of the centre. following an appeal by the applicant, on 7 december 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of 24 october 2006. the applicant lodged a further appeal, and on 22 august 2007 the supreme court of ukraine quashed these decisions and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. it held that the case was to be considered under the administrative justice procedure since it concerned a public-service dispute. accordingly, the applicant instituted administrative proceedings before the melitopolskyy court, which, on 21 february 2008, again found against her for reasons similar to those listed in its decision of 24 october 2006. the applicant appealed, and on 16 july 2008 the dnipropetrovsk administrative court of appeal quashed this decision and terminated the proceedings on the grounds that it fell to be examined under the civil justice procedure as the applicant was not a public servant. on 2 march 2011 the higher administrative court of ukraine upheld this decision. on 14 april 2011 the same court rejected the applicant’s request for leave to appeal to the supreme court of ukraine against the decision of 2 march 2011. on 28 march 2011 the applicant again lodged a civil claim seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 4 august 2011 the melitopolskyy court refused to examine the merits of the applicant’s civil claim as the applicant had sought to have adjourned previous court hearings in respect of her case on numerous occasions without good reason. on 5 october 2011 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in voluntari. in march 2014 a large-scale criminal investigation was initiated against several persons for money laundering and fiscal fraud. on 3 december 2014 the investigation was extended in respect of thirty-two other persons, including the applicant. the order to appear had been issued by the prosecutor on 3 december 2014. the documents on file show that between 8.40 a.m. on 4 december 2014 and 3 a.m. the next day, the investigating authorities, namely five prosecutors and six judicial police officers, conducted interviews in respect of fourteen witnesses and twenty-five suspects and/or defendants in connection with the criminal investigation involving the applicant. entered the premises of the police headquarters at 4.10 p.m. the applicant contended that up until that time, her lawyer had been prevented from joining her because he had not submitted a written mandate proving that he lawfully represented her (see also paragraph 22 in fine, below). when invited to give a statement, she refused, claiming that she was unwell and needed medical assistance. the minutes recording this interview do not mention the exact time of their drafting; they are signed by the applicant, who confirmed having received a copy. her lawyer does not appear to have been present. at about 00.22 a.m. the applicant’s questioning started. in the second complaint it is claimed that on 4 december 2014, as of 12.00 p.m. when the search of her home ended, the applicant’s liberty to move around was restricted, as proved by the fact that she had been accompanied by police officers not only to the police station but also to the hospital, where she had been taken under escort to obtain medical assistance. on 5 december 2014, relying on testimonial, documentary and audio surveillance evidence, the prosecutor asked the bucharest county court to place the applicant in pre-trial detention (arest preventiv) for thirty days as her release posed a threat to public order. an appeal lodged against this was dismissed by the bucharest court of appeal on 15 december 2014. her pre-trial detention was extended for another thirty days by a decision of the bucharest county court issued on 29 january 2015, upheld on appeal. the applicant was released on 11 february 2015 after two months of pre-trial detention. it appears that the proceedings on the merits are still pending. the applicant claimed that for two months, she had been placed in a cell measuring 9 square metres, which she had shared with three other detainees. they submitted that the applicant had been detained in a cell measuring 9.32 sq m, which she had occupied with two or three other detainees from 5 to 8 december 2014. they stated that each cell had sanitary facilities such as a toilet and a shower, which were separated from the rest of the cell by a curtain. both cells had access to natural and artificial light, as well as ventilation provided by a double-glazed window measuring 115cm x 77cm.
the applicants were born in 1968 and 1972 respectively and live in vilnius. sold a plot of forest land measuring 0.4807 hectares to the applicants. the purchase agreement categorised the land as forest. in february 2005 a registration certificate was issued for the plot of land. in november 2005 the first applicant asked the authorities to issue him with the relevant documents necessary for construction. it was indicated that anyone intending to carry out construction work was required to preserve existing flora, and was not allowed to block the shore of the lake or interfere with the existing landscape. in march 2007 the utena county administration issued a certificate about the summer house as 97% finished and following that, on 2 april 2007 the house was registered in the centre of registers (registrų centras) as 97% finished. on 10 may 2011 the authorities estimated the distance between the house and the lake at 27 metres, and between the terrace of the house and the lake at 24.5 metres. moreover, it had been established that any construction work in the forest could only be started after having received building permission and in accordance with the relevant plans. the court also observed that in the applicants’ case it would be unreasonable and unjust to apply the measure established in the civil code – to oblige the applicants to demolish the buildings (see paragraph 29 below). a summer house could not be constructed as it did not fall within the category of buildings that could be constructed in the forest. the court did not explain how the costs of demolition had to be divided between the three parties. on 27 september 2013 the supreme court held that relevant laws provided that the only buildings that could be constructed in the forest were timber storehouses and other buildings for forestry equipment. there were no provisions allowing construction of residential or commercial buildings in the forest. as to the applicants’ argument that the appellate court had breached the principle of legitimate expectations, the court held that the construction in question had been prohibited by the relevant domestic legislation in force at the time. even if the applicants had misinterpreted the provisions of the regulation, the constitutional court had found the regulation to be inconsistent with the law, and, by extension, with the constitution on 14 march 2006, only three months after the building permit had been issued to the first applicant. the applicants should therefore have been able to understand the consequences of constructing illegally and to avoid them. as a result, the court upheld the decision of the panevėžys regional court (see paragraph 17 above). on 12 february 2014 the molėtai district court dismissed the bailiff’s request because she had failed to provide specific details as to what required clarification. on 23 december 2015 the utena district court held that domestic law did not oblige the bailiff to suspend the execution of judgments if the applicants had lodged an application with the european court of human rights.
the applicants are sisters, who were born in 1949 and 1950 respectively and live in vilnius and varėna. his property rights were registered on 6 june 1996. two plots of land measuring 8.93 hectares and 0.94 hectares respectively were returned to them in natura. ’s heir, asked for the plot of land of 0.51 hectares to be entered into the land registry in his name. if there was a dispute, the aca would initiate court proceedings in order to annul part of the decision of 23 may 1996. in april 2008 the prosecutor lodged a claim with the varėna district court and asked it to annul part of the decision of 23 may 1996 (see paragraph 6 above) restoring the property rights of the applicants’ father in respect of 0.4863 hectares of land, and the relevant part of the succession document issued to the applicants. on 21 april 2009 the varėna district court allowed the prosecutor’s application, indicated that the part of the decision of 23 may 1996 regarding the 0.4863 hectares had to be annulled, and held that a plot of land of 0.51 hectares had to be demarcated for j.p. the applicants’ property rights would be protected by giving them an equivalent plot of land in another area. and that the applicants had signed the documents and agreed with the borders of the plot under the buildings. on 2 february 2011 the vilnius regional court sent the case back to the court of first instance for fresh examination, stating that the substance of the case had not been examined thoroughly. had previously been a school building, but since 1992 it had been registered in the register of immovable property as a residential building. the court further held that the conclusion of the varėna district court that j.p. ’s buildings were on the plot of land measuring 0.51 hectares. the national land service stated that the applicants were aware of the court proceedings regarding the decision of 23 may 1996 to restore their father’s property rights. was entitled to buy the plot of land for residential purposes located under the buildings from the state. among many other things, the applicant asked for: the process of amending the borders of their plot of land to be terminated; j.p. as a preliminary estimate, the value of the plot at issue was estimated at 217 euros (eur). in june 2015 the varėna division of the national land service once again informed the applicants that returning the 0.4863 hectares of land in natura was not possible and that they could have monetary compensation. one of the applicants collected the decision on 8 september 2017. was using land to which he had no rights.
the first applicant was born in 1976 and lives in žagarė and the second applicant was born in 1957 and lives in šiauliai. in december 2010 the first applicant bought a house at an auction organised by the state and registered his property rights in the state property register. and for an award in respect of pecuniary damage. lodged a complaint against the bailiff but on 6 june 2012 the šiauliai district court dismissed it. to vacate the house before 15 may 2012; thus he had given them thirty-nine days. submitted a separate complaint against the decision of the šiauliai district court (see paragraph 15 above), complaining that the court had made a purely formalistic assessment of his minor granddaughter’s living arrangements in the house and that it had not commented on the fact that the bailiff had ignored his wife’s illness. the bailiff submitted a separate complaint against the decision of the šiauliai district court (see paragraph 14 above). on 25 january 2013 the šiauliai regional court dismissed the bailiff’s complaint holding that g.b. on 3 april 2013 the bailiff informed z.b. that the eviction would take place on 16 april 2013. stated that his mother was living in the house and, because she was not on the list of persons who could be evicted, the eviction could not take place. on 7 november 2013 the bailiff issued an order for forced eviction. on 18 november 2013 the forced eviction took place, with the participation of the bailiff, the locksmith and two police officers. the next day, the bailiff drew up a document by which the second applicant was assigned as the property manager of the goods that had been left in the house and that had been seized. to collect their goods that had not been seized (see paragraph 28 above) from the house on 17 february 2014 at the latest. on 30 and 31 october 2014 the bailiff announced a public auction concerning the movable property of z.b. on 17 june 2015 the šiauliai district court rejected another complaint lodged by z.b. against the bailiff, the second applicant and third parties regarding the annulment of the negative consequences caused by the unlawful actions of the bailiff and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. had asked it to rule that some personal belongings could not be sold at auction. had not taken advantage of the opportunity to name buyers who might have had an interest in taking part in the auction that had been subsequently carried out.
at the time of the events the applicants were all working as cashiers for m.s.a., a spanish family-owned supermarket chain. at the beginning of february 2009 the applicants’ employer noticed some irregularities between the supermarket stock levels and what was actually sold on a daily basis. in particular, the shop supervisor identified losses in excess of eur 7,780 in february, eur 17,971 in march, eur 13,936 in april, eur 18,009 in may and eur 24,614 in june 2009. the purpose of the hidden cameras was to record and control possible employee thefts and they were zoomed in on the checkout counters, which covered the area behind the cash desk. security cameras had also caught them allowing customers and co-workers to leave the store with merchandise that had not been paid for. the same day the second applicant brought similar proceedings before the employment tribunal in a joint application with the third, fourth and fifth applicants (see paragraph 20 below). the main evidence supporting the fairness of their dismissals was the recordings resulting from the covert surveillance, as well as the witness statements of co-workers dismissed for their involvement in the thefts, the shop manager, the union representative and the company’s legal representative. the applicants appealed before the high court of justice of catalonia on 16 and 22 march 2010 respectively. on 28 january and 24 february 2011 the court upheld both first-instance judgments, referring to the constitutional court’s case-law and endorsing the employment tribunal’s finding that the defendant party had been authorised to carry out the covert video surveillance of the cash desks. the applicants brought cassation appeals, which were declared inadmissible on 5 october 2011 and 7 february 2012 respectively. on 25 and 29 june 2006 the applicants were dismissed on disciplinary grounds: they had been caught on video helping co-workers and customers steal items and stealing them themselves. according to the employer, the security cameras had caught the third applicant scanning items from the grocery baskets of customers and co-workers and afterwards voiding the receipts. they also argued that the evidence derived from the covert video surveillance had been obtained illegally. on 20 january 2010 the employment tribunal ruled against the applicants and declared the dismissals fair. it carefully analysed the settlement agreements signed by the applicants. in particular, it addressed their allegation of invalid consent, finding that there was no evidence proving the existence of any kind of duress or intention to commit a crime (dolo) at the time the applicants had signed the settlement agreements. accordingly, the settlement agreements were declared valid under article 1.809 of the civil code and, consequently, the employment tribunal ruled against the third, fourth and fifth applicants. the applicants appealed before the high court of justice of catalonia on 16 march 2010. on 24 february 2011 it upheld the first-instance judgment and endorsed the employment tribunal’s finding that the settlement agreement signed by the applicants was valid.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in bostadel prison, in menzingen. on 19 july 2005 the applicant was transferred to bostadel prison. the intercantonal commission submitted its report on 29 october 2007. it recommended an expert psychiatric assessment and vocational guidance measures, and acknowledged that the applicant could work in an outside environment but could not be granted any other adjustments of the conditions of his sentence, such as being able to spend the holidays with his father. acting on instructions from the department of justice of the canton of basle urban, dr r.a., found that these disorders had already been present at the time when the offences had been committed. in a report dated 10 november 2008 the intercantonal commission found that the applicant represented a danger to the public, and recommended that no adjustments to the conditions of his sentence be ordered and that the appropriate court be asked to review whether the conditions for an (outpatient) therapeutic measure in conjunction with the sentence (vollzugsbegleitende therapeutische massnahme) were satisfied (article 63 of the criminal code). the intercantonal commission also recommended that should such a measure prove unsuccessful, consideration be given to converting the sentence into indefinite detention. on 30 december 2008 the department of justice of the canton of basle urban asked the court of appeal to ascertain whether, following its judgment of 12 january 2007, the conditions for ordering a therapeutic measure were satisfied. on 9 june 2009 the governor of bostadel prison issued a progress report on the applicant’s detention, in which he noted in particular that the applicant had refused any psychotherapy. to clarify this possibility, it proposed that an additional expert report be drawn up. in a report dated 5 january 2010 the governor of bostadel prison noted in particular that the applicant had displayed good behaviour while working in an outside environment and that release on parole could therefore be envisaged, even if only for a limited period. however, she did not rule out all possibility of treatment, referring to some more promising therapeutic approaches. on 7 july 2010, referring to the above-mentioned additional psychiatric report, the post-sentencing authority of the canton of basle urban (“the post-sentencing authority”) asked the court of appeal to review whether, following its judgment of 12 january 2007, the conditions for ordering subsequent indefinite detention, or possibly an institutional therapeutic measure, were satisfied (articles 64 and 59 of the criminal code respectively, taken together with article 65; see paragraph 24 below). in a judgment of 6 may 2011, after hearing evidence from professor a.e. it noted that indefinite detention was an exceptional measure and could only be ordered with caution. in addition, the federal court noted that it was appropriate to consider whether an institutional therapeutic measure should be ordered. regarding article 5 § 1 (a) of the convention, the federal court noted that although a subsequent order for an institutional therapeutic measure was inherently at variance with the binding nature of the principal judgment, there had to be a sufficient causal link between the judgment and the measure for the subsequent detention ordered in the context of review proceedings to comply with that convention provision. such a link had been present in his case. he maintained that he was not receiving any treatment or therapy.
the applicant was born in 1930 and lives in vilnius. on 10 april 2003 the vilnius county administration informed the vilnius municipality that the property rights of the applicant’s husband would be restored to 0.1638 hectares of land for residential purposes. on 11 june 2003 the vilnius municipality informed the vilnius county administration that a plot of land of 0.1007 hectares had been formed near the buildings owned by the applicant’s husband. in november 2003 the vilnius city first district court established as a legal fact that the grandmother of the applicant’s husband had owned a plot of land in vilnius measuring 362 square “fathoms” (sieksnis – 1 fathom equals 1.82 m). on 16 may 2007 the applicant’s husband died and the applicant became his heir. on 9 april 2009 the property rights of the applicant’s husband were restored in natura to 0.0467 hectares of land and it was provided that compensation of approximately 1,642 euros (eur) would be paid in securities for the remaining 0.1181 hectares of land. the court stated that in comparison with these numbers, the value of the plot of land provided by the vilnius county administration (see paragraph 14 above) was 327.5 times lower, and it could not conform to the principle of equal value. moreover, in accordance with the methodology approved by the government, the calculation was the same for plots of land in the city centre and outside the city. it appears that the applicant did not reply to this letter. after the matter had been resolved by the constitutional court (see paragraph 35 below), the vilnius regional administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim on 4 november 2013. if no other means were chosen, the property rights had to be restored by paying monetary compensation. the court further observed that the authorities had suggested the applicant choose other means to have her property rights restored (see paragraph 17 above), and that in september 2013 it had been decided to include the applicant on the list of persons to receive a plot of land for construction of an individual house. the decision to restore the applicant’s property rights by paying her compensation in securities had to be changed to monetary compensation. on 29 may 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. the supreme administrative court also held that the applicant had complained about the length of the court proceedings. the court held that the applicant had lodged the complaint on 4 november 2009; it had been accepted by the vilnius regional administrative court on 17 november 2009. on 10 february 2010 the vilnius regional administrative court had decided to apply to the constitutional court, which had adopted its decision on 11 september 2013. the proceedings in the administrative case had recommenced on 16 september 2013 and the decision had been adopted on 4 november 2013. given the complexity of the case and referral of the matter to the constitutional court, the length of proceedings had not breached the reasonable time requirement. the applicant was asked to express her wish before 1 march 2015.
in 2005 he was granted a temporary residence permit in sweden which was made permanent in 2007. during the migration agency’s examination of the request, the applicant applied for asylum, claiming that he was in need of international protection. he further contested the security service’s request alleging that, since the security service had branded him a terrorist, he would risk torture and at least ten years’ imprisonment in morocco. he submitted that he would be forced to confess to an act of terrorism that he had not committed. however, he claimed that the swedish security service would inform the moroccan authorities of the reasons for his arrest and expulsion and other moroccans in sweden might also submit such information. he was not aware if his situation had been noted in morocco. such persons had been tortured into confession and sentenced to lengthy terms of imprisonment. it noted that the human rights situation in morocco had improved significantly. violence at police stations and prisons had decreased. imprisonment was common in terror-related cases and persons affiliated with islamic movements ran a higher risk of being subjected to violence. in terror-related cases, arrested suspects were examined by doctors before and after interrogation to prevent the use of violence by the interrogators. moreover, the agency considered that he had not made out that the moroccan authorities had previously showed an interest in him. it took into account that he had lived outside morocco for about a decade and that, as he said himself, he had lived an inconspicuous life in sweden without political or religious activities. the agency observed that the applicant had submitted that he was not sought in morocco, that he had not been involved in any legal proceedings there and that the moroccan authorities had never subjected him to any acts of persecution in the past. it took into account that no objective evidence suggested that the moroccan authorities were aware of his case and that the legislation had regard to the possible risks of being labelled a terrorist and had been designed to avoid such risks. the migration agency concluded that, even taking into account the applicant’s submissions, it shared the security service’s assessment and considered that there were grounds to expel the applicant with reference to section 1, paragraph 2, of the special controls of aliens act (lagen [1991:572] om särskild utlänningskontroll). it thus rejected his request for asylum and international protection, revoked his permanent residence permit and ordered his expulsion to either morocco or another specified country. it also decided on a lifelong ban on returning to sweden. the agency maintained its stance and stated, inter alia, that the applicant had not made it probable that he was of interest to the moroccan authorities and there was no concrete information indicating that they should be aware of what had happened to him in sweden. the security service stated that it was as transparent as possible but, for reasons of confidentiality, could not reveal its working methods and sources.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in larnaca. following his dismissal from cyprus airways ltd as a trainee pilot, the applicant on 26 june 1998 brought a civil action before the district court of nicosia for wrongful dismissal and defamation (civil action no. the defendant company was represented by a law firm. on 29 december 2006 the court dismissed the action. on 9 february 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal with the supreme court (appeal no. the appeal was tried by a bench of three judges. the hearing of the appeal was held on 11 march 2007. on that date the managing partner of the above-mentioned law firm, mr p.g.p., appeared for the defendant company and addressed the supreme court. up until that date, other lawyers from the firm had appeared before the appeal bench on behalf of the defendant company. on 21 april 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal unanimously. the applicant submitted that after the judgment of the supreme court was given, he discovered that the son of one of the judges sitting on the bench, judge a.k., were married and that both worked at the latter’s law firm. the lawyer representing him in the domestic proceedings had not requested the exemption of the judge in question because he had not had sufficient knowledge of the relevant facts at the time. the applicant had also not instructed his lawyer to do so as he had found out about this fact only after the appeal proceedings had ended.
the applicant was born in 1974 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 25 january 2008 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching a prison order by the bolu f-type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 1 february 2008 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above-mentioned letter. on 26 february 2008 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 11 march 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 26 february 2008.
on 27 december 2010 the applicant was arrested on drug-related charges and placed in custody. on 14 december 2012 the case was submitted for trial to the voronezh regional court. on 11 july 2013 the court returned the case to the deputy prosecutor general for remedying certain procedural defects. on 20 september 2013 the investigations department of the federal drug control service received the case file and forwarded it to its regional branch in st petersburg. on 1 november 2013 an investigator asked the st petersburg city court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further four months, until 31 march 2014. on 8 november 2013 the city court granted the application. he pointed out that the maximum statutory time period for keeping him in pre-trial detention had expired a long time ago and that any further extensions had been unlawful. on 27 november 2013 the st petersburg city court rejected his appeal in a summary fashion, without examining his arguments in detail.
the applicant is a non-governmental organisation which promotes tolerance and condemns all types of racially motivated discrimination. it was established under swiss law and registered in zürich. on 5 november 2009 the youth wing of the swiss people’s party (junge schweizerische volkspartei) held a demonstration in the train station square in the town of frauenfeld concerning a public initiative to support the prohibition of the building of minarets in switzerland. the president of the local branch of the young swiss people’s party, emphasised that it was time to stop the expansion of islam. a symbolic sign, such as the prohibition of minarets, would therefore be an expression of the preservation of one’s own identity.’ on 29 november 2009 the popular initiative against the construction of minarets was accepted in a referendum and a constitutional amendment banning the construction of new minarets was introduced. on 15 march 2011 the kreuzlingen district court dismissed b.k. on appeal, on 17 november 2011 the thurgau cantonal high court (obergericht des kantons thurgau) reversed the first-instance judgment. ’s speech as “verbally racist” had been a mixed value judgment, which could lead to an infringement of personality rights if it was based on untruths. the appellant referred to the respondent’s speech at the public demonstration of 5 november 2009 on its website ... freely accessible on the internet, commenting on the term ‘verbal racism’. it contains a substantive core and, at the same time, a value judgment. the term ‘racism’ is understood as ‘a doctrine’ which states that ‘certain races or nations are superior to others in terms of their cultural capacity’, and, on the other hand, a ‘certain attitude, manner of thinking and acting towards people of (certain) other races or nations’ (cf. duden, the great dictionary of the german language in six volumes, vol. verbal racism is, therefore, no longer merely a certain attitude, but an attitude in the instant case which was expressed publicly through language (as opposed to, for example, through deeds). ‘ verbal racism’ could therefore mean racial discrimination in the criminal sense, as the respondent claims. what is decisive, however, as the second-instance court correctly stated, is that the mere demonstration of a difference between two individuals or groups does not constitute racism. the statements that led the appellant to conclude that there had been ‘verbal racism’ are the core phrases ‘it is time to stop the spread of islam ... the swiss guiding culture (“schweizerische leitkultur”), based on christianity, cannot let itself be repressed by other cultures ... a symbolic sign, such as the prohibition of minarets, is therefore an expression of the preservation of one’s own identity’. in his public speech, the respondent expressed his opinion on the prohibition of minarets, which, in the opinion of the high court, would not be compatible with freedom of religion and non-discrimination. for the average listener, that does not result in the blanket denigration of the followers of islam or show fundamental contempt for muslims. therefore, the substantive core does not apply and the assessment is not acceptable.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in sochi. on 27 november 2010 the applicant, a police captain, was arrested for soliciting a bribe. he was taken into custody and his detention was extended on several occasions. on 4 july 2011 the case was submitted for trial in the tsentralnyy district court of sochi. on 8 july 2011 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial and returned the file to the prosecutor. by the same decision, it extended the applicant’s detention until 10 august 2011. on 9 august 2011 the director of the iz-23/2 remand prison where the applicant was held reported to the sochi prosecutor and to the president of the tsentralnyy district court that, in the absence of an order extending the applicant’s detention beyond 10 august, he would need to be released on that date. on the same date the sochi prosecutor replied to him that there were no grounds for releasing the applicant because the date for hearing the prosecutor’s appeal against the district court’s order of 8 july had been fixed for 17 august. the applicant was not released on 10 august. he complained about his unlawful detention to the head of the investigations committee and the regional head of the ministry of the interior but did not receive any reply. on 17 august 2011 the krasnodar regional court quashed the district court’s order on appeal. as regards the custodial measure, it held that no extension had been necessary because by virtue of article 255 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure the applicant could be held in custody for an initial six-month period starting from the date on which the case had been submitted for trial.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in toksovo. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 4 october 2009 judge r. of the vasileostrovskiy district court remanded the applicant in custody. on 26 october 2009 the st petersburg city court upheld the detention order on appeal, rejecting a challenge by the applicant as unsubstantiated. on 30 november 2009 a deputy president of the city court referred an application by an investigator for an extension order to the oktyabrskiy district court for consideration. the district court granted the application on the following day. on 11 december 2009 the city court upheld that decision on appeal. however, on 31 march 2010 the supreme court of russia determined that the decision to refer the application to another district court had been invalid, because the city court’s deputy president had decided on the change of venue of his own initiative without hearing what the defendant’s opinion on that issue was. on 30 december 2009 a further extension was granted by the president of the vasileostrovskiy district court, judge sh., who again rejected a challenge for bias by the applicant. on 26 january 2010 the city court upheld the extension order on appeal. by a separate decision of the same date, it upheld the rejection of the challenge in respect of judge sh.: those orders were upheld on appeal on 25 march and 8 april 2010. allowed the applicant’s challenge for bias in respect of the entire composition of that court, holding as follows:
“it has been established that the injured party in the criminal proceedings [k.] works as an assistant to the vasileostrovskiy district court’s judge [n.], and that her father [judge k.] is a judge of the vasileostrovskiy district court. it follows that circumstances exist leading the defendant and his counsel to believe that [judge sh.] and all the judges of the vasileostrovskiy district court are, either directly or indirectly, interested in the outcome of the criminal case. extended the applicant’s detention until 12 may 2010. the presidium extended the applicant’s detention until 12 august 2010. on 15 april 2010 a deputy president of the city court determined that the trial would be held in the petrogradskiy district court. on 31 march 2011 the petrogradskiy district court found the applicant guilty of rape and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment.
the applicants are owners of residential buildings or apartments which were subject to the rent-control scheme. under the relevant legislation they were obliged to let their flats to tenants while charging no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state. the particulars of the flats affected by the rent control are set out in appendices 10 ‑ 17 (columns a ‑ f). 30255/09, 28 january 2014 (merits) and 7 july 2015 (just satisfaction)), and subsequently decided cases concerning the rent-control scheme in slovakia (see krahulec v. slovakia, no. 19294/07; bukovčanová and others v. slovakia, no. 38082/07, 5 july 2016; riedel and others v. slovakia, nos. 44218/07, 54831/07, 33176/08, 47150/08; and mečiar and others v. slovakia, no. 33076/10, 14383/11, balan and others v. slovakia [committee], nos. two residential building at 27 panenská st. in bratislava were acquired in 2002 by a religious organisation with legal personality, cirkevný zbor evanjelickej cirkvi augsburského vyznania na slovensku bratislava (hereinafter “the bratislava evangelical church”). on 15 february 2013 the previous owner ceased legally to exist and was legally succeeded by the old town evangelical church and the other two entities. 11 situated in the residential building at 27 panenská st. by law, these tenants had under certain circumstances the right to claim that the municipality provide them with a substitute flat on the termination of their lease. they did not avail themselves of that right. as the occupants eventually vacated the flat on 25 february 2015, the old town evangelical church withdrew its action and the proceedings in respect of it were discontinued on 9 march 2015. 5 and 12 within the same building owing to rebuilding of the original flats. the tenants continued to pay the regulated rent. 5 was rebuilt and its area was changed from 110.27 sq. in bratislava where in 2014 the tenant residing in flat no. 9, and in the residential building located on 15 vrbovská cesta st.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in bucharest. at 6 p.m. on 11 december 2011 two police officers arrived at the applicant’s door and asked for his identification papers without giving their names or informing him of the purpose of their visit. searched for his identification papers and handed them all to the police officers: identity card, pension benefits slip and a certificate that he had been a fighter in the 1989 revolution. the police officers took the papers without looking at them and took the applicant to police station no. the pain was so intense that the applicant soiled himself. during the beating, the applicant’s mobile phone and still camera were destroyed and his clothes were torn. when they returned they informed him that they were leaving on a mission. the police officer sent him home to clean himself up. the applicant went home and then returned to the police section to recover his identity papers. the doctor drafted a medical report dated 16 december 2011; a copy of the report was given to the applicant on 4 january 2012. 19 to settle a conflict between the applicant and a neighbour. upon arrival, the police officers asked the applicant to present his identity papers, but he became violent and refused to comply. the officer on duty declared on 3 october 2012 that he had not spoken at all to the applicant on the night in question and had only seen him when the police officers had brought him in to establish his identity; those same officers had subsequently advised him to leave the police station – the officer on duty stated that he had seen the applicant again when he was leaving the building. lastly, the two police officers gave their statements on respectively 4 and 5 october 2012. on 12 november 2011 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bucharest county court decided not to prosecute. the applicant lodged a complaint with the bucharest county court against the two decisions. on 11 june 2013 the county court dismissed the complaint and consequently upheld the prosecutors’ decisions. the court considered that the police intervention had been lawful. the court considered that the applicant had not been kept unlawfully in the police station but had been released as soon as his identity had been established, and that the consequences of the police intervention had not been serious enough to constitute the crime of torture, as alleged by the applicant. the decision was final, no further appeal being possible.
the first applicant, habibe i̇ncin, is the wife of kerim i̇ncin; the second to seventh applicants are his children; the eighth applicant is his mother and the remaining seven applicants are the siblings of kerim i̇ncin. in june 1995 kerim i̇ncin had gone back to their village in turkey to collect a sum of money he was owed. while at the military station kerim i̇ncin had been questioned and subjected to ill-treatment. after having detained him at the station for a week, the soldiers had taken him back to the village, where they had shot him and buried him. in their petition the two applicants also gave the prosecutor the names of a number of people who they alleged had witnessed the incident in question. the prosecutor started an investigation into the applicants’ allegations immediately. in the course of the investigation, between 2005 and 2006 the prosecutor questioned the applicants and other members of their family. during the same period the prosecutor also identified, summoned and questioned a large number of witnesses and members of the military who had lived or worked in the region at the time of the events but who, in the years that had elapsed since the killing, had moved to different parts of the country. on 26 may 2006 the prosecutor asked the hakkari gendarmerie command whether there would be any security concerns if he were to visit that cemetery with a view to exhuming a body. in their replies during spring, summer and autumn months, the soldiers informed the prosecutor that it was not a good idea to go to the area in question because a military operation could be conducted there at any time. finally, on 11 june 2009 the prosecutor informed the military of his intention to go to the cemetery on 18 june 2009 and instructed the military to take the necessary security measures for his planned visit. on 18 june 2009 the prosecutor went to the cemetery in question and a body was exhumed from a grave in his presence. it was subsequently established by dna analysis that it was the body of kerim i̇ncin. the trial before the hakkari assize court started on 12 april 2010. the two applicants who had introduced the complaint with the prosecutor on 22 march 2005 (see paragraph 6 above), namely halima i̇ncin and hazım i̇ncin, joined the criminal proceedings as interveners. in the course of the trial a total of twenty hearings were held. on 27 november 2014 the hakkari assize court acquitted y.k. the same day the applicants appealed against the judgment acquitting y.k. and the proceedings before the court of cassation are still pending. at the request of the court, the government stated that, in accordance with the applicable statute of limitations, the criminal proceedings against y.k.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in voluntari. the applicant gave statements on 27 february and 11 august 2004. to falsify the date of registration of the applications. had antedated the registration of the six applications. he decided not to institute a criminal investigation against m.c.i. had asked some civil servants at voluntari city hall to antedate the registration of the applications. in respect of the charges brought against them. changed the statements she had made initially before the prosecutor and stated that the applicant had only called her and asked her to help m.c.i. the applicant did not change his statements and continued to deny any involvement in committing the intellectual forgery. with the registration of the applications as the latter had arrived after closing time. two other witnesses made statements at the same hearing. by a judgment of 9 may 2005 the buftea district court convicted n.g. and the witnesses were not heard directly by the county court. it upheld the decision of the first­instance court, emphasising that there was no evidence that the applicant had asked n.g. no new pieces of evidence were adduced before the bucharest court of appeal. by a final decision of 3 march 2006, the bucharest court of appeal allowed the appeal on points of law lodged by the prosecutor’s office, quashing the two previous decisions. it convicted the applicant of inciting intellectual forgery and imposed a suspended sentence of six months’ imprisonment, placing him on probation. it held that both the lower courts had made a wrong assessment of evidence. however, it did not question the applicant, the co-defendant n.g., or the witnesses, instead merely citing some of the statements they had made before the prosecutor and the first-instance court.
the first and second applicants are ilinden’s chairman and deputy chairman. 44079/98, 20 october 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria, no. 46336/99, 24 november 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria, no. 37586/04, 18 october 2011; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria (no. on 19 september 2010 ninety-eight members of ilinden held a founding meeting at which they resolved to form the organisation and apply to register it, adopted articles of association, and elected individuals to the organisation’s constituent bodies. бос), the blagoevgrad regional court refused to register ilinden. it noted that it had on several occasions instructed the applicants to rectify deficiencies in the registration papers, the latest such instruction having been given on 29 november 2011. it was true that ilinden intended to use peaceful means to attain those aims. they submitted that the court had misconstrued ilinden’s articles of association and that it was not seeking to stir up hatred or hostility. the real reason for the refusal to register it had been that it had advocated opinions which were at odds with official opinion. the registration papers met all the required formalities. it held that its aims, as set out in its articles of association, were political, which was not permissible for an association seeking registration under the non-profit legal persons act 2000 (see paragraphs 19-21 and 23 below). clause 4 spoke of the protection of macedonians subjected to racial and ethnic assimilation by the bulgarian state’s nationalistic policies and demanded that pirin macedonia be given cultural autonomy, that the assimilation of macedonians be stopped, and that macedonian identity, religion, language, traditions and heritage, allegedly being subjected to ethnocide by the bulgarian authorities, be protected. at the end of its decision, the sofia court of appeal said that it was amenable to appeal on points of law before the supreme court of cassation. in a decision of 30 april 2013 (опр № 133 от 30.04.2013 г. it held that under the applicable provisions of the 1952 code of civil procedure, as construed in a binding interpretative decision in 2001 (see paragraph 24 below), appellate decisions upholding refusals to register a non-governmental organisation had been amenable to appeal on points of law. however, that was not the case under the 2007 code of civil procedure, which had come into effect on 1 march 2008. they contested the way in which the three-member panel had construed the relevant provisions of the new code. another three-member panel of the supreme court of cassation upheld the first panel’s decision. analysing in detail the applicable provisions of the new code, it confirmed the manner in which the first three-member panel had interpreted them.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in yerevan. he is a former minister of foreign affairs and at the material time he headed a political movement called “civil disobedience”. on 5 may 2007 criminal proceedings were instituted under article 190 § 3 (1) of the criminal code (money laundering) in respect of the applicant. on 7 may 2007 the applicant was arrested and on 10 may 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, upon an application by the investigator, taking into account the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that the applicant, if remaining at large, could abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings. the applicant objected to that application, arguing that the investigator had failed to submit any well‑founded arguments in support of the allegation that he would abscond or obstruct justice, whereas he had no previous convictions, was known to be of good character, had a permanent place of residence and stable social life, and was a well-known public figure. the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal within fifteen days. on 11 may 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising similar arguments. on 24 may 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the decision of the district court, finding that the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence, the particular circumstances of the case and the possible investigative measures to be carried out gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant could obstruct the investigation. on 2 july 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application by the investigator, finding that the applicant, if remaining at large, could obstruct the investigation, abscond, exert unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and commit another offence. the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal. on 3 july and 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised. on 24 july 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the decision of the district court, finding that the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence, the particular circumstances and complexity of the case; the investigative measures to be carried out and the applicant’s behaviour, namely his refusal to give any testimony, which was a factor slowing down the investigation, gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant could obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and also abscond. on 31 august 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application of the investigator, on the same grounds as before. the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal. on 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised 15. on 6 september 2007 the investigator decided to replace the applicant’s detention with a written undertaking not to leave his residence and to release him in view of the fact that the investigative measures would take some time and it was no longer necessary to keep the applicant in detention. on 17 september 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to leave the applicant’s appeal of 3 september 2007 unexamined in view of the fact that he had been released.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in blagoevgrad. 44079/98, 20 october 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria, no. 48284/07, 18 october 2011; and united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria (no. the rally would consist of the laying of wreaths and flowers and the reading of a short address. that parallel event made the staging of the rally impossible. on 18 september 2006, again acting on behalf of the macedonian initiative committee, the applicant sought judicial review of the mayor’s decision. he argued that under the applicable international-law agreements, that organisation was entitled to stage peaceful rallies without being registered. in a final decision of 19 september 2006, the blagoevgrad district court held that the application was admissible and that the mayor’s decision was amenable to judicial review. it was not appropriate to hold the rally, which, in view of its intended theme, was political in character, alongside the municipality’s event. the performance of musical works could not at all be reconciled with political addresses. as a result, the macedonian initiative committee called off the rally. he had made a request for information in that connection under freedom-of-information laws, but had not received a reply. the municipality’s cultural calendar for 2006 showed that the concert marking the day of music had been scheduled for 1 october rather than 30 september 2006. blagoevgrad’s mayor had banned that rally, and a legal challenge to his decision had been dismissed by the blagoevgrad district court on 8 september 2006 (see united macedonian organisation ilinden and ivanov (no. 2) (cited above, §§ 90-95) in the following way:
“90. moreover, the municipality had planned an event on macedonia square for the same date, a children’s holiday under the name ‘hello, school’, to mark the beginning of the school year, which made the holding of the rally impossible. it therefore sent the file to the blagoevgrad district court. in a final decision of 5 september 2007 the blagoevgrad district court dismissed the application. it held that, while the lack of registration did not amount to sufficient grounds to prohibit the rally, the fact that another event, likely to draw a number of people, many of whom were children, was due to take place on the same date in macedonia square was enough to justify the ban. they were taken to a police station, held for about three hours and charged with committing administrative offences for having tried to take part in a banned rally.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in yerevan. on 1 august 2002 the government adopted decree no. 1151-n, approving the expropriation of tracts of real estate situated within the administrative boundaries of the kentron district of yerevan, to be taken for state needs, with a total area of 345,000 sq. it appears that the applicant ran a small kiosk on a plot of land situated within the area to be expropriated. 1785-a, granting her the right to lease a plot of public land of 5 sq. m. at a specified address in the kentron district of yerevan for seven years and to construct and run her kiosk on this land. by the same decision, the mayor authorised the local authority of kentron district to conclude the lease agreement with the applicant. on 26 february 2008 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the mayor and kentron district, seeking to implement decision no. on 30 july 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim and obliged the mayor of yerevan to conclude the agreement specified in decision no. on 9 september 2008 the administrative court issued a writ of execution for the judgment of 30 july 2008. however, by her letter of 30 june 2009 the applicant refused to negotiate with the mayor’s office. on 16 june 2010 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, requesting that the court oblige it to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008. the administrative court noted that the deja had taken certain actions in order to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008 and that the enforcement procedure was still pending. the decision of the administrative court of 22 june 2010 was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation on 25 august 2010. on 21 october and 4 november 2010, following an enquiry by the applicant, the bailiff responded that the enforcement was in progress and that the applicant would be informed of the results. on 24 january 2011, pursuant to the applicant’s enquiries concerning the implementation of decision no. on 27 february 2012 the applicant instituted proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, seeking to declare the decision of 4 august 2011 null and void, as well as to oblige the deja to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008. on 15 february 2013 the administrative court rejected the applicant’s first claim, reasoning that there were not sufficient grounds for declaring the deja’s decision of 4 august 2011 null and void. it refused to examine the applicant’s second claim. this decision was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation on 18 december 2013.
the background to the refusal to register ilinden at issue in this case has been set out in detail in the judgments in the following cases: stankov and the united macedonian organisation ilinden v. bulgaria, nos. 44079/98, 20 october 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria, no. 46336/99, 24 november 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria, no. on 27 september 2010 ilinden’s board of management applied to the blagoevgrad regional court for it to be registered as an association. on 3 february 2012 the blagoevgrad regional court refused the application, and on 23 april 2012 its decision was upheld by the sofia court of appeal. a detailed account of those proceedings may be found in yordan ivanov and others v. bulgaria (no. on 23 march 2014 the second and third applicants and seven other people held a meeting at which they resolved to set up ilinden as an association. бос) the blagoevgrad regional court refused the application. the court went on to note that ilinden’s articles of association stated that it would strive for, inter alia, the introduction of the macedonian language in schools, the protection of the right of macedonians to refute propaganda about their history and culture, and the protection of macedonian cultural heritage, which was being “subjected to ethnocide by bulgarian cultural institutions”. moreover, the statements, combined with the existence, albeit brief, of a political party called the united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin, whose re-registration had recently been refused, and with the existence of organisations bearing the same or similar names, led to the conclusion that the intention was to mislead society and to obtain the registration of an organisation pursuing political aims (see paragraphs 18-20 below), or an organisation directed against the unity of the nation. the real reason for the refusal to register ilinden had been that it advocated views which were at odds with the official ones. the court began by saying that when assessing the aims of an association seeking registration, it had to base itself chiefly on the articles of association. the court also had to bear in mind the traditions which the association purported to represent and the historical figures with which it identified, the past activities, if known, of its founders, leaders and supporters, as well as the positions they had advocated. the same went for the declaration in the articles of association that ilinden would only resort to peaceful means to achieve its aims. in the tense situation facing bulgaria and its neighbouring states, that had to be seen as a genuine possibility. the refusal was a justified preventive measure. the dissenting judge noted that ilinden’s founders had complied with all formal requirements of the law. the refusal to register it was thus disproportionate and unjustified. ilinden’s founders sought to appeal on points of law. he noted that under the applicable rules of procedure, as consistently construed by the supreme court of cassation, no appeal lay against appellate decisions confirming refusals to register an association.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. the applicant was employed by the state revenue service (“the service”), division no. on 23 february 2009 the head of the service decided to terminate the applicant’s employment. on 2 april 2009 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the service seeking to 1) have the decision of 23 february 2009 annulled; 2) be reinstated in her previous position; and 3) recover her average salary starting from the moment of her dismissal until her reinstatement to the previous position. on 17 september 2009 the administrative court granted the applicant’s three claims. in particular, it annulled the decision of 23 february 2009, ordered the service to reinstate her to her previous position and to pay her her average monthly salary starting from 23 february 2009 until her reinstatement. it reasoned its decision, inter alia, by stating that while the service had been under an obligation to offer the applicant another position within the service before deciding to dismiss her, it had failed to do so, even though such a position had existed in the service at the material time. this judgment was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation and it became final on 4 november 2009. on 29 november 2009 the service paid the applicant 1,197,748 armenian drams (amd) (approximately 2,131 euros (eur) at the material time) as compensation for her unemployment during the period from 23 february to 29 november 2009. on 11 december 2009 the administrative court issued a writ of execution. on 25 february 2010 the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”) initiated enforcement proceedings. on the same day the deja gave a decision obliging the service to comply with the writ of execution of 11 december 2009 within two weeks. it appears that no further actions were taken by the deja and the service in relation to the enforcement of the judgment of 17 september 2009 between the period of 25 february 2010 and 18 july 2011. the bailiff reasoned that the service had already paid the applicant amd 1,197,748 while the reinstatement of the applicant in her previous position in the service was impossible because that position was no longer vacant. on 29 may 2012 the applicant asked the deja to resume the enforcement proceedings. on 1 june 2012 the bailiff granted the applicant’s request and decided to resume the enforcement proceedings. on the same day the bailiff gave a decision on obliging the service to take certain actions. in particular, the bailiff obliged the service to 1) annul the decision of the head of the service of 23 february 2009; 2) reinstate the applicant to her previous position; and 3) pay her her average monthly salary for the period between her dismissal and her reinstatement to the previous position. on 2 july 2012 the bailiff decided once again to terminate the enforcement proceedings on the basis of section 41(1)(8) of the enforcement of judicial acts act. 2, where the applicant had previously worked, no longer existed.
the applicant is a professor of law at a private university in skopje. she holds a doctoral degree in the field of criminal law. on 14 january 2010 the applicant lodged a request with the ministry of justice (“the ministry”) in order to be recognised as having the same status as a person who had passed the bar examination (изедначување со правата на лицата кои положиле правосуден испит). as she did not obtain a decision, she lodged two further requests, on 24 november 2011 and 6 february 2012. on 11 april 2012 the ministry rejected her request, holding that she did not meet the relevant criteria to obtain such recognition. in particular, the ministry found that although she was a professor of law at a university, she did not hold a bachelor’s degree in law (дипломиран правник на правен факултет). the ministry further found that the bachelor’s degree which she had obtained had been awarded by the faculty of security and social defence (факултет за безбедност и општествена самозаштита), and not by a faculty of law, as required. on 10 may 2012 the applicant brought an action with the administrative court (управен суд), challenging the refusal. she argued that as a university professor at a faculty of law she met the relevant criteria. on 30 may 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action. it held that regardless of her current status, she did not meet the criteria to obtain the desired recognition under domestic law. in particular, it established that the applicant did not hold a bachelor’s degree in law, which was a condition for the recognition she sought. on 23 september 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal with the higher administrative court (виш управен суд). she argued that she met the relevant criteria and that the lower court had failed to properly interpret the procedural and substantive law in the case. on an unspecified date, the ministry submitted observations to the higher administrative court concerning the applicant’s case. the ministry stated in the observations that the right to obtain recognition as having the same status as a person who had passed the bar examination was dependent on having a bachelor’s degree issued by a faculty of law. the applicant did not possess such a degree and had therefore failed to meet the criteria under domestic law. those observations were not communicated to the applicant. on 30 january 2014 the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, reiterating in full the reasons provided by the administrative court. the decision was served on the applicant on 19 may 2014.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in kocaeli. following a dispute with a private third party, the applicant initiated compensation proceedings. on 12 march 2009 the tuzla civil court of general jurisdiction granted the applicant compensation, amounting to 386,464.75 turkish liras (try) (approximately 174,000 euros (eur)). in the operative part of the judgment, the court indicated that the defendant party had to pay try 16,000 (approximately eur 7,400) for court fees pursuant to the law on charges. the court registry accordingly sent a payment order to the defendant party. on 18 may 2009 the applicant submitted a petition to the registry of the first instance court, requesting that the judgment be served on her in order to commence enforcement proceedings. on the same day, the court rejected the request on the ground that it was impossible under section 28(1) (a) of the law on charges (law no. 492) to serve a copy of the judgment unless the court costs that should have been born by the defendant party had been discharged. at the time when the application was introduced, the applicant had therefore been unable to bring enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed unless she herself was willing to pay the court fees that the defendant party had failed to pay. following the introduction of the present application with the court, the domestic legislation was amended (see paragraphs 11-13 below), and subsequently the judgment in question was served on the applicant. in the absence of an appeal, the judgment became final on 17 october 2012. on 5 march 2013 the applicant initiated enforcement proceedings against her debtor. on 10 april 2013 the applicant further requested the enforcement office to place a lien on the debtor’s property. according to the documents in the file, as of 14 april 2017 the debt, which is still not enforced, amounts to try 812,648.94 (approximately eur 193,500) including the initial amount of compensation awarded by the domestic court plus interest running at statutory rate.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in timişoara. on 29 april 2004 the timiș county court dismissed her action as ill‑founded. the domestic court also awarded the applicant the costs and expenses incurred in the proceedings. the applicant instituted enforcement proceedings on 21 january 2005, requesting the bailiffs’ office m.s.r. & according to a report of 11 february 2005 issued by the bailiff, the bailiff and the applicant’s lawyer visited the company’s premises. however, the company refused to fulfil its obligations. she argued that the matter was urgent because she needed to obtain the salary entitlements that would allow her to provide for herself and her infant. the court held that the procedural requirements had not been thoroughly complied with in so far as the bailiff had failed to serve the company with a copy of the enforceable judgment. on 6 october 2005 the timiș county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as ungrounded. the first-instance judgment thus became final. on 21 april 2005 the timișoara district court allowed the request, in so far as the restriction order had been issued subsequent to the suspension of the enforcement proceedings ordered by the court (see paragraph 13 above). in the meantime, on 29 june 2005, the bailiff issued another notice of payment. on 2 november 2005 the bailiff received a letter from the applicant, in which she enquired whether the company had complied with the outstanding judgment. it is not clear whether that report was communicated to the applicant or not. on 5 may 2005 the applicant lodged a complaint before the timișoara district court seeking to obtain a court order for immediate enforcement of the judgment, pursuant to article 5803 of the rccp as in force at the time (see paragraph 40 below). in a decision of 18 august 2005 the timișoara district court allowed the applicant’s complaint and ordered the company to pay a coercive fine of rol 500,000 per day until it fulfilled its obligations. on 5 december 2006 a criminal investigation was initiated against m.d., and fined him ron 1,000, namely approximately eur 250. on 2 june 2008 both the applicant and m.d. appealed against the prosecutors’ decisions before the timişoara district court.
the applicants, whose names are listed in the appendix, are turkish nationals. on 17 and 18 july 2008, each of the applicants sent a letter to the halfeti (şanlıurfa) public prosecutor`s office which contained the following passage:
 "if using the word of “sayın” (esteemed) is an offense, then i also say “sayın abdullah öcalan”, i commit this offense and denounce myself." on 19 september 2008, the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters against the applicants. they were charged with praising an offence and offender, prescribed by article 215 of the criminal code (law no. 5237), on account of their statements in the above mentioned letters. on 9 march 2009 the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters found the applicants guilty of praising the imprisoned leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, on account of their statements in the aforementioned letters and accordingly, sentenced them each to two months and fifteen days’ imprisonment. in accordance with article 50 of the criminal code, this prison sentence was commuted to a fine of 1,500 turkish liras (try). the applicants appealed against this judgment. on 20 june 2012 the court of cassation, holding that the amount of the fine that had been imposed on the applicants did not attain the minimum requisite level, dismissed the appeal request.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in chisinau. at the material time, the applicant was a student and was undertaking an unpaid internship at a law firm. on 23 october 2008 criminal proceedings were initiated against t., a lawyer with whom the applicant worked, on charges of trading in influence. in particular, t. was accused of receiving 10,500 euros (eur) from d. to pass on to the judges examining a criminal case against a relative of d.’s in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence. the applicant had no procedural standing in those proceedings. on 30 october 2008 the police lodged with an investigating judge a request for a warrant to search the applicant’s apartment. the request was granted; the decision to issue the warrant read as follows:
“the criminal investigation against t. was initiated on 23 october 2008 ... in the course of the investigation it has been established that from march until september 2008, t. extorted and received from d. in several instalments the amount of eur 10,500, [to be given to] the judges who examined d.’s relative’s case, in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence. on 24 october 2008 t. was caught in flagrante receiving 3,800 us dollars (usd) from d., allegedly for influencing the prosecutor not to appeal against the [subsequent] judgment [acquitting the accused]. the evidence in the file and the material obtained through the operational investigation allow the well-founded assumption that at [the applicant’s] home, situated at [address], can be found eur 10,500 received from d. and relevant documents,
decides
to order a search of [the applicant’s] residence, situated at [address], with the aim of finding and seizing eur 10,500 received from d. and documents concerning the criminal case.” on the same day, a prosecutor lodged a request with the buiucani district court for a warrant to be issued for the search of the applicant’s apartment. his request took the form of a verbatim copy of the police decision. also on the same day the buiucani district investigating judge issued a decision authorising the search. the decision read as follows:
“the present criminal proceedings were initiated on 23 october 2008 ... against t.
after hearing the prosecutor and examining the material, and taking in consideration the fact that that material had been obtained in [a manner] in compliance with the law, the court finds that the request for the authorisation of the search is well founded and should be upheld. on the basis of articles 41, 125, 301, 305 and 306 of the code of criminal procedure, the court:
... 9. on 10 december 2008 the police searched the applicant’s apartment in the presence of her elderly mother [but not the applicant]. on 21 august 2009 the applicant lodged a request for access to the evidence which had been presented to the judge to justify the search. on 3 september 2009 the buiucani district investigating judge replied that the case file was held at the [premises of] the investigating authority and that access could only be granted pursuant to the law. it appears from the material in the case file that the criminal proceedings against t. ended with the latter’s acquittal.
the applicant was born in 1960 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant`s objection. on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
the applicant, a practising defence lawyer, represented ‒ initially before the ljubljana district court and subsequently before the appellate courts ‒ a defendant, i.p., who had been charged with three murders committed on 15 august 2002. were asked to assess the accountability of the defendant and the probability that he had committed the criminal offences of which he had been accused. at the final hearing held on 12 march 2004 v.r. replied to questions put by the applicant and the public prosecutor. under the rules of the criminal procedure act, a new expert witness should not be appointed unless there are contradictions or deficiencies in the available expert opinion or if reasonable doubt arises with regard to its correctness – the applicant therefore pointed out what he considered to be such deficiencies with respect to v.r. was convicted of three counts of murder and sentenced to thirty years’ imprisonment. in his written and oral submissions before the ljubljana higher court, the applicant strongly criticised the work of the experts, public prosecutor and the court and used a number of expressions which the higher court found amounted to contempt of court (see paragraph 19 below). as regards the level of the fine imposed on the applicant, the court noted that it reflected the nature and seriousness of the offensive statements and the fact that he was a lawyer with many years’ experience of representation in court proceedings. the court concluded that the lower court’s decision was correct and did not restrict the rights of the defence “as alleged by the appellant who obviously, lacking any self-criticism, still maintains that the allegations laid against the experts were justified”. he argued that he had expressed the impugned opinions with the aim of providing the best possible defence to his client and that his punishment had not been necessary in a democratic society. furthermore, alternative less severe measures were available, such as a private prosecution for slander. the constitutional court has already [emphasised] in decision no. who voted against, wrote an extensive dissenting opinion. in his opinion, such measures might constitute interruption of the speech in question, a formal warning, and the informing of the appropriate professional association or body. the applicant appealed against this decision on 17 march 2005. the applicant stressed that his comments had related to j.b. he also argued that he had expressed acceptable criticism which, though presented in a slightly illustrative manner, had not been insulting to the experts but instead had challenged the credibility of their opinions. however, as the three votes in favour of examination had nevertheless not been obtained, the constitutional complaint was rejected. on 5 december 2016 the constitutional court sent to the applicant a corrigendum of its decision of 3 december 2008, noting that judge j.z.
the applicants were born in 1967, 1965 and 1972 respectively and at the time of lodging their applications they were serving their prison sentences in the muş e-type prison. on 6 and 7 march 2006 each applicant sent a letter to the ministry of justice, referring to the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan, by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicants were found guilty of breaching prison order by the erzurum h- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 5 april 2006 the applicants were each sentenced to 12 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of the statements in the above mentioned letters. on 17 april 2006 the erzurum enforcement judge rejected the applicants’ objections. on 30 june 2006 the erzurum assize court upheld the judgment of 17 april 2006. furthermore, on 4 july 2005 a disciplinary sanction was imposed on the first applicant, as he avoided visits and telephone calls to protest against the detention conditions of öcalan. he was accordingly banned from receiving visitors for 2 months. on 21 october 2005 and 14 november 2005, respectively, the erzurum enforcement court and the erzurum assize court rejected the first applicant’s appeal requests.
the applicant was born in 1930 and lives in valencia. he has lived in san josé, a residential district of valencia since 1962. since 1974 valencia city council (“the city council”) has allowed licensed premises, such as bars, pubs and discotheques, to open in the vicinity of his home. however, the resolution was never implemented and new licences were granted. in 1993, the polytechnic university of valencia carried out a study of the levels of night-time noise during the weekend on behalf of the city council. in 1994, the applicant became president of the neighbourhood association of his district. he also asked for the withdrawal of the business licences of several establishments. on 28 june 1996 the city council adopted the municipal ordinance on noise and vibrations (ordenanza municipal de ruidos y vibraciones ‑ hereinafter “the ordinance”). in view of the fact that the levels of noise pollution did not decrease, the applicant decided to replace his windows with double glazing and to install air conditioning in order to alleviate the high temperatures caused by having the windows permanently closed in summer. on 5 january 2001 the city council issued a resolution denying his preliminary state liability claim. the city council joined the proceedings before the high court. the applicant provided the court with two reports: the first one of 1 april 1998 prepared by the municipal service for the environment stated that:
“prior to the entry into force of the declaration of an acoustically saturated zone, the levels of disturbance by noise during the night exceeded 65 decibels, mainly during the nights from thursdays to sundays from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the morning. consequently, there was a difference of 20-30 dba. during the proceedings, the high court ordered a legal medical expert report by a specialist in preventive medicine. it found that there was no causal connection between the noise pollution and the alleged damage caused to the applicant, since there was no evidence proving that in his particular flat the level of noise pollution exceeded the established limits. indeed, the applicant had decided to replace his windows without previously asking for a measurement of the noise inside his flat, as provided by article 54 of the ordinance. this appeal was initially dismissed on 18 october 2004. in a judgment of 29 september 2011, served on the applicant on 19 october 2011, the plenary of the constitutional court dismissed the amparo appeal, arguing that (1) both cases were not identical, (2) the applicant had not proved that in his particular case the noise at his flat was above the permitted level, (3) that the city council had indeed adopted specific measures to reduce noise pollution at the applicant’s neighbourhood and (4) that he had not proved that his health problems had been directly caused by noise pollution. the judgment was not adopted by unanimity. in particular, the dissenting judges argued that the standard employed by the constitutional court to decide when the right to privacy and family life had been infringed should have been based on the case-law of the court and that prolonged exposure to a high levels of sound that could be qualified as avoidable and unbearable deserved the protection of the courts, given that it impeded him from living a normal life.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1976 respectively. it concerned a case that had caused a public outcry in turkey, namely that of metin göktepe, a journalist who was beaten to death by the police whilst under arrest in 1996[1]. the above-mentioned article read as follows:
“this is what metin said [i surely have to watch [it]] to colleagues who were making their final preparations to observe the funerals of rıza boybaş and orhan özen – two revolutionary detainees who had been killed in ümraniye prison four days earlier – when he arrived at the newspaper office on 8 january 1996. this was an expression of his commitment and involvement in life with a great enthusiasm, which went beyond the mere love of his job. the important message behind this is that we need determination to go beyond the darkness and reach the light. or, to put it a different way, it is not possible to reach the light from the darkness without eliminating the eliminators (ya da, başka bir deyişle, “bertaraf ediciler”, “bertaraf” edilmeden karanlıktan sürekli aydınlığa çıkmak da mümkün değil). indeed, they thought that it was already too late. who issued the collective detention order which ended with the death of metin, and around vice-director k.b., ’ın üzerindeki koruma halesinin sonsuza kadar öyle kalacağını düşünmek ise, herşeyden önce verilen onca mücadeleye karşı bir inançsızlık olur). absolute protection from this fate requires constant and persistent monitoring. on 18 january 2000 the prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment with that court and charged the applicants with offences defined in section 6 § 1 of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 5680) and article 36 of the former criminal code. in accordance with additional section 2 § 1 of law no. 5680, the first-instance court also ordered the temporary closure of the newspaper for a period of seven days. had been rendered targets for terrorist organisations:
“... it is not possible to reach the light from the darkness without eliminating the eliminators ... and above all, supposing that the protective ring around the former director of i̇stanbul security directorate, o.t., who executed this order, would remain in place forever would represent nothing but a lack of faith in all these struggles. on the same day, the applicants lodged an appeal. were the ones who had given and executed the detention order which had resulted in metin göktepe’s death. according to the applicants, the writer had wished the cases against the two officials to be followed up by the people of turkey with a view to bringing these officials to justice. the closure order for the newspaper was executed from 20 to 27 march 2001.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in erzincan. the applicant was a civil servant in the erzincan provincial directorate of environment and forestry, and at the time of the events he was a member of the local branch of a trade union affiliated to kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions). on 27 november 2004 and 12 december 2004 respectively, the applicant participated in a press statement and a demonstration organised by his trade union. subsequently, a disciplinary investigation was initiated against the applicant for his participation in the above mentioned trade union activities. on 31 august 2005 a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reduction in salary was imposed on the applicant for having participated in trade union activities. on 27 october 2005 the applicant filed a petition with the sivas administrative court and requested the annulment of the disciplinary sanction that had been imposed on him. on 18 may 2006 the sivas administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request, considering that the administrative decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment. on 20 october 2008 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the sivas administrative court.
the first applicant, mrs daniela nedescu, is married to the second applicant, mr călin nedescu. they were born in 1976 and live in bucharest. following an ovarian stimulation and in vitro fertilisation, seven embryos were obtained, of which three were transferred immediately to mrs nedescu, who became pregnant and gave birth. on 15 july 2009 the procedure for obtaining the required authorisation from the transplant agency was completed and the s. clinic was authorised to act as a medical centre that could function as a storage bank for genetic material. the applicants’ embryos and those of other couples were kept in containers. each container had different vials for each set of embryos. they had to be accompanied by an embryologist and provide a special container with liquid nitrogen. on 21 july 2010 the applicants went to the ifm accompanied by an embryologist, however, they were not allowed to retrieve the embryos. they were asked instead to show that the transplant agency had approved the transfer. the applicants were directed to bring a claim for damages before a civil court. on 12 december 2010 mrs nedescu had another examination, which led to the same conclusions as on 18 august 2010. at a hearing on 22 march 2011 the applicants asked the court of appeal to order the transfer of the embryos from the ifm to a private clinic of their choice located in sibiu, the p. clinic, which was authorised to carry out assisted reproduction and act as a genetic material storage bank. the applicants appealed against the judgment to the high court of cassation and justice. the transfer of the embryos to the new custodian took place on 19 october 2011. on 12 november 2012, in reply to a request from the applicants, p.s. hospital reiterated that the embryos could only be retrieved after prior approval from the transplant agency and that an embryologist from the s. clinic and a diicot representative had to be present. furthermore, the hospital did not only have the task of implementing diicot’s decision to allow the applicants to remove the embryos and ensure respect for the conditions that the removal be made in the presence of an embryologist and include the provision of a container with liquid nitrogen. the representative also stated that the existing embryos could be transferred to the mother at the hospital but that the hospital’s own doctors would not carry out the procedure as they could not assume any responsibility owing to the quality of the embryos. they indicated that they were able to bear the costs of becoming custodians. in any event, “no formula allowing for consensus among all the parties involved has so far been identified”.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in galway, ireland. and established that her habitual residence was in ireland. on 15 september 2009 the ennis district court decided that a’s residence would be in ireland with her mother, who was granted sole custody. on 6 october 2009 the malbork district court heard the applicant’s application and m.k. in particular, the court highlighted that the rodk report had stated that a wished to remain in poland. was closer to a and more attentive to her particular needs than the applicant. on 18 may 2010 the gdańsk regional court dismissed an appeal by the applicant. on 22 june 2010 the gdańsk court of appeal quashed the decision of the gdańsk regional court of 4 december 2009. the court decided that the irish court had ruled on parental responsibility and that judgment could not be reconciled with the subsequent judgment of the polish court of 18 december 2009 dismissing the applicant’s claim for the child’s return under the hague convention. on 28 february 2012 the gdańsk court of appeal refused to declare that the order of 15 september 2009 was enforceable on the grounds that the high court of ireland had made a new custody order on 9 september 2011 (see paragraph 27 below). the report recommended that the court should take account of the wish a had expressed to attend school in poland and to consider an arrangement whereby the child lived with her father during school terms and spend her holidays in ireland. the court decided to grant joint custody to both parents, but still ordered the child’s return to ireland by 2 november 2011. in october 2011 the applicant lodged an application with the polish ministry of justice to enforce the judgment of the high court of ireland of 9 september 2011 and for the return of the child to her. she felt her mother had been putting pressure on her to return to ireland. on 9 july 2012 the guardian made a further attempt to remove the child but their home was again empty. the court commissioned an expert opinion and held hearings. brought proceedings in the polish courts for an order that a be returned to him. on 4 july 2011 the gdańsk regional court granted m.k. and the applicant, stating that they shared fault. on 8 october 2009 the applicant saw a for the first time during an interview conducted by court experts.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in smolyan. in two final judgments of 28 february 2005 and 8 may 2006 the supreme court of cassation awarded the applicant pecuniary damages in respect of breach of contract for construction works which she had carried out. the awarded damages comprised bgn 52,784 for the principal amount, plus bgn 17,685 in default interest and bgn 5,433 in costs and expenses, or a total amount of bgn 75,902.93, the equivalent to 38,000 euros (eur). the damages were awarded to the applicant against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport – ministry of education and science (“the centre”, a state body subsidised by the ministry of education and science and exercising certain functions delegated by the ministry). by an order of 25 may 2005 the minister of education closed down the centre and ordered that its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education. the ministry then established a state-owned joint‑stock company with part of the centre’s property, including the real estate in which the applicant had carried out the construction works. on 13 may 2005 and 15 march 2007 the applicant was issued with two writs of enforcement for the amounts awarded in the final judgments of 2005 and 2006 (see paragraph 5 above) and on 6 february 2008 she presented the writs to the ministry of education asking it to pay. the ministry replied in writing that it was not the successor to the centre and did not owe payment to the applicant. in october 2009 the applicant reiterated her request but received a similar reply by the ministry. the ministry also pointed out that payment could not be sought from the state-owned joint-stock company either as it had a legal personality separate from that of the ministry. by a letter of 23 september 2010, the minister provided a similar explanation to the applicant. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the minister’s refusal. in a final decision of 8 april 2011 the supreme administrative court rejected the appeal as inadmissible. as of 19 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been reported.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in saatli. they met on 11 june 2007, and then on 19 and 20 july 2007 as well. according to the applicant, during these meetings r.a. firstly demanded that he stop writing articles about the ministry. a journalist who had been heavily beaten in may 2006. on 24 july 2007 they met again at a restaurant in baku. during the meeting when the applicant received 3,500 united states dollars from r.a., on 26 july 2007 the applicant was charged under article 311.1. on the same day the nasimi district court ordered the applicant’s detention pending trial for a period of three months. on 3 august 2007 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:
“the first-instance court, when deciding to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of mushfig huseynov, has correctly taken into account the character and degree of public dangerousness of the committed crime, the possibility of his absconding from the investigation, and the fact that the sanction provided for the commission of this act is over two years’ imprisonment. in that connection, he submitted that more time was needed to complete the investigation. on 19 october 2007 the nasimi district court granted the prosecutor’s request by extending the applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 24 january 2008. on 22 october 2007 the applicant appealed against that decision, claiming that the first-instance court had failed to justify his continued detention and to take his personal situation into account. the applicant did not make any mention of his and his lawyer’s absence from the hearing of 19 october 2007 in his appeal. it appears from the appellate court’s decision and the transcript of the court hearing of 31 october 2007 that the hearing was held in the absence of the applicant, but in the presence of his lawyer. on 25 december 2009 the applicant was released from serving the remainder of his sentence after being pardoned by a presidential decree. on 1 august 2007 a television programme concerning the applicant’s arrest on 24 july 2007 was broadcast on a private television channel. one of these undesirable members of the mass media is the editor of the bizim yol newspaper, huseynov mushfiq tofig oglu – who was accused of having committed serious and especially serious crimes and was convicted of libel and defamation under articles 147.2 and 148 of the criminal code of the republic of azerbaijan by the nasimi district court’s judgment of 25 april 2006 – [he] did not draw conclusions from that and committed an even more serious crime, bribe-taking ...” 22. at the end of the programme the narrator stated that the criminal investigation was ongoing and that the public would be informed of further developments.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in sofia. the sofia municipal council approved the exchange of a municipal flat for a smaller flat owned and occupied by the applicant in december 2005. however, the mayor of sofia did not issue the necessary order and did not sign a contract for the exchange, as provided in the applicable rules. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the mayor’s tacit refusal to act. the sofia administrative court quashed the mayor’s tacit refusal in a judgment of 1 april 2010 and instructed the mayor to issue an order for the exchange of the flats. that part of the judgment became final and enforceable on 19 may 2010. by a decision of 25 march 2010 the sofia municipal council revoked its december 2005 decision approving the exchange of the two properties. the applicant lodged a challenge against that 25 march 2010 decision. in a final judgment of 7 march 2011 the supreme administrative court declared the council’s decision of 25 march 2010 null and void. on 18 april 2011 the mayor issued a decision explicitly refusing to issue an order for the exchange of the two flats. following an application by the applicant for judicial review, on 30 march 2012 the supreme administrative court declared that decision null and void as having been issued in breach of the judgment of the sofia administrative court of 1 april 2010. the court also instructed the mayor to issue an order for the conclusion of the exchange agreement. the mayor ordered the flat exchange on 6 march 2013 and the applicant signed a contract for the exchange on 25 june 2013.
fnass, which was established in 1992, is a federation of trade unions representing professional athletes, which today comprises the unions representing track and field athletes (saf), basketball players (snb), cyclists (uncp), footballers (unfp), handball players (ajph) and rugby players (provale). 2010-379 on athletes’ health, bringing the sports code into line with the principles of the world anti-doping code (hereafter “the order of 14 april 2010”). of the sports code, which has undergone several amendments since. article 6 of the order (article l. 232-13-1 of the sports code, see paragraph 63 below) provided, in particular, that individualised anti-doping testing of athletes included in the testing pool could be carried out at training and sporting venues, but also “at any location chosen with the athlete’s agreement at which the test can be carried out in compliance with the athlete’s right to respect for his or her privacy, including, at his or her request, at home.” in their view, the unconditional implementation of article 3(i)(3)(d) of the order, allowing tests to be carried out independently of sporting events and outside training periods, meant that between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. (the testing period laid down by article l. 232-14 of the sports code, see paragraph 64 below) the athletes in the testing pool faced the permanent prospect of physically intrusive tests. they had all undergone testing, some of them between two and eight times. (b)  information provided by the applicants 15. in their observations in reply of 3 december 2013 the eight applicants who were not in the afld testing pool (see paragraph 13 (a) above) stated that they were in the testing pool of the international rugby board (irb). they stated that they were required to declare their whereabouts in france on the same basis as the applicants included in the afld testing pool and that the afld, which had subsidiary powers in that regard, was empowered to impose sanctions on them. they produced a letter from the afld to the president of the national basketball league dated 11 june 2010, asking the latter to send a list of players by 30 august 2010 who should be included or retained in the testing pool. the applicant, who was born in 1958, is a french national. in an email of 16 march 2012 the uci informed the afld that the applicant was no longer in the uci testing pool. 357097) to the effect that the director of testing did not have power to decide on the inclusion of an athlete in the testing pool (see paragraph 60 below), the afld board, in order to prevent a legal vacuum that might adversely affect the implementation of checks on athletes’ whereabouts, approved the applicant’s inclusion in the testing pool. in a judgment of 18 december 2013 the conseil d’état joined the two applications of 28 december 2012 and 28 may 2013 and rejected them, after deciding not to refer a second question for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality. this convention, which is the european reference instrument, has been ratified by all the council of europe member states and by five non-member states (australia, belarus, canada, morocco and tunisia). the wadc is the instrument for bringing consistency to the anti‑doping practices of the different international federations and states. the provisions of the wadc operate in conjunction with five international standards. clause 11.3.2 provided that the whereabouts information also had to include, for each day during the following quarter, one specific sixty-minute time slot between 6 a.m. and 11 p.m. each day during which the athlete concerned would be available and accessible for testing at a specific location. a failure to be available for testing at the specified location during the specified time slot would be regarded as a missed test. as the wadc is not binding on states because the instruments adopted by wada are governed by private law, it was decided to draw up an international convention in order to provide an internationally recognised legal framework allowing states to incorporate the code into their domestic legislation.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in cork. in 1995 she became the patient of dr b, a consultant endocrinologist. dr b received the result of the first test on 5 september 2000. he spoke by phone with the applicant, telling her that the tumour was very unsatisfactory. as the drug led to severe gastrointestinal side effects within a short time, dr b reduced the dosage by half. it appears there were no side effects following the injections of october and november 2000. at the end of the year the applicant was unwell, and was hospitalised in early january 2001 suffering from vomiting, diarrhoea, severe exhaustion, headaches, cramps and muscular spasms in her arms and legs. a blood test indicated that she was also severely hypothyroid. in may 2004 the applicant commenced civil proceedings in the high court against dr b and the hospital. her case in negligence was that dr b had failed in his duty of care towards her in the prescribing of the drug and the monitoring of its administration to her. the hospital entered its defence in june 2005, and also sought further and better particulars. according to the government, between february 2005 and september 2008 eleven motions seeking various forms of interim relief were brought before the high court and decided in relation to the case. the hearing commenced on 13 april 2010 and took place over twelve days. the judge did not accept that dr b had failed to monitor adequately the effects of the drug on the applicant during the months that she received it. the applicant’s mistaken impression was neither caused nor contributed to by the doctor’s explanations. it remained pending before the supreme court until it was transferred to the newly-established court of appeal on 29 october 2014. as surgery was not possible, the only alternative was medication. it was, the court of appeal held, reasonably open to him to hold that view. as for the argument that the doctor should have also presented a “do nothing” option, the court of appeal described this as “somewhat unreal”. on 8 march 2016 the supreme court refused.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kyustendil. in a judgment of 15 august 2004 the sofia district court awarded the applicant bgn 2,120.28 (about 1,100 euros (eur)) in damages, plus the legal interest for the period starting on 11 february 2003 until full payment, and bgn 200 in costs and expenses, against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport (“the centre”). the centre was a state body subsidised by the ministry of education. it exercised certain functions entrusted by the ministry. the damages were awarded for loss of salary following the applicant’s unlawful dismissal from work. the judgment became final on 11 february 2008. in the meantime, on 25 may 2005 the minister of education ordered that the centre be closed down and its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education. the ministry then established a state-owned joint-stock company with part of the centre’s property. on 26 november 2008 the applicant was issued with a writ of enforcement for the amount awarded against the centre in the final judgment of 11 february 2008 (see paragraph 5 above). on 18 march 2009 he filed a request with the minister for education for payment of that amount. the ministry of education replied in may 2009 that neither the ministry, nor the state-owned joint-stock company, was the successor of the centre and that the amount claimed was not due by them. as of 23 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been recorded.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in giresun. who was the sole eyewitness to the incident. denying the allegations against him, the applicant stated that on the morning in question, he had entered one of the classrooms in the building for cleaning purposes, where the alleged victim was already present with another pupil. on the other hand, testified before the trial court that as she opened the door of the classroom in question, she saw the applicant sitting on a desk in the dark with his legs apart, hugging x. who was sitting on his lap, facing the blackboard. stated that while she had never witnessed similar behaviour by the applicant before, the scene she had seen on the day in question looked suspicious. who worked in the same primary school and was also the uncle of x.’s mother, asserted before the court that although he had never witnessed any suspicious behaviour on the part of the applicant, he had heard a colleague, i̇.k., say that the applicant had engaged in indecent behaviour towards some pupils at the school where he had worked previously. confirmed that the applicant had apologised to him following the incident. the psychiatrist who interviewed x. after the incident reported that the latter lacked the mental capacity to comprehend and recount what might have taken place on the relevant day and, for that reason, it would be futile, and possibly harmful for her well-being, for the trial court to question her. on 13 january 2009 the acquittal judgment became final in the absence of any appeal. a teacher at the primary school, from a.t., the principal of the primary school, and from the applicant, who was being held in detention in relation to the criminal proceedings at the time. the medical diagnosis was stated as autism. she stated that] what she witnessed did not look like a regular display of affection and when she had entered the room, he had thrown the child off him in panic. entered the room, he was trying to get the minor off him. [ moreover, the consistent statements of e.u., the event] has also given rise to a criminal investigation instigated by the espiye public prosecutor’s office where [the applicant], is accused of sexually abusing a minor who was born on [...] february 1993 and who was unable to defend herself due to her mental incapacity, and to the remanding in custody of [the applicant]. on 5 july 2006 the supreme disciplinary council issued the following decision in relation to the applicant, in so far as relevant:
“upon examination of the file ... and of the defence statement duly taken [from the applicant], the following has been decided:
on the basis of the information and documents in the file, the veracity of the act [harassment of x.] attributed to the applicant has been conclusively established... for this reason, it has been decided unanimously to accept the proposal to dismiss the applicant from the civil service in accordance with section 125 § e (g) of the law no. on 28 july 2007 the applicant appealed against the decision of the ordu administrative court, which he considered to be based on groundless accusations. the deputy principal at the previous school, denying any such allegations of indecent behaviour.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kırıkkale. on 25 september 1998 the applicant was arrested by police officers and taken into custody on suspicion of being a member of an illegal organisation. he confessed that he was a member of the organisation in question and gave information about certain activities in which he had participated. on 2 october 1998 a statement was taken from the applicant by the istanbul public prosecutor. he confirmed the statement he had made to the police. he confirmed the statement he had made to the public prosecutor, but withdrew the one he had made to the police. the applicant alleged that he had given the statements under duress. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 16 december 1998 the other co-accused, namely g.t., on 8 march 1999 the trial court, noting the absence of the accused, decided to adjourn the hearing. at the hearing held on 2 june 1999, the applicant gave evidence in person and stated that he had been forced to sign his previous statements. at the same hearing, the other co-accused, namely a.b. they did not make any statements in respect of the applicant. while the criminal proceedings against the applicant were pending, on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judge sitting on the bench of the istanbul state security court was replaced by a civilian judge. on 4 august 1999, the state security court, composed of three civilian judges, heard evidence from a.s., when asked his comments concerning those statements, the applicant rejected them, maintaining that he had had no connection with the accusations. on 25 april 2001 the public prosecutor read out his observations on the merits (esas hakkında mütalaa) and requested that the applicant be convicted and sentenced under article 125 of the former criminal code. on 27 march 2002 the applicant’s lawyer reiterated his previous defence submissions. on 2 september 2002 the applicant and his lawyer presented their closing arguments. on 7 april 2003 the court of cassation upheld the judgment.
the applicant political party has its registered seat in budapest. in the course of the campaign several opposition parties called on voters to boycott the referendum or to cast invalid ballots that would not count in the final tally but could still be interpreted as rejecting the idea of the referendum. it also enabled voters to comment on the reasons for how they cast their ballot. the posting and sharing of photographs were anonymous. the application was reported in major online journals. on 29 september 2016 a private individual lodged a complaint with the national election commission (nemzeti választási bizottság) about the application. xxxvi of 2013 on electoral procedure and article 2(1) of the fundamental law. relying on a previous resolution issued in 2014, it held that voters could not treat ballot papers as their own [property], and therefore could neither take them out of the voting booths nor take a photograph of them. it held that taking photographs of ballot papers could lead to electoral fraud. the commission concluded that the phone application was capable of discrediting the work of election bodies and tallying systems in the eyes of the public. the applicant political party sought judicial review of this decision as well. by a decision of 18 october 2016 the kúria upheld the commission’s decision as to the finding of an infringement of the principle of the proper exercise of rights. it reduced the fine to huf 100,000 (approximately eur 330). the applicant organisation lodged a constitutional complaint against the decisions of both 10 and 18 october 2016. citizens regularly share events, thoughts and opinions on internet websites through photos taken with their mobile phones. in the context of elections, this led to the fact that all over the world, voters take photos of their ballot papers and share it through social media. the applicant further submitted that, as established by the kúria, the mobile phone application had not infringed the secrecy and fairness of the voting procedure and it had also not been capable of doing so, since the content of the ballot papers could not be linked to the voters. thus, it argued that these aims could not serve as a legitimate basis for restricting the right to freedom of expression. in any event, even if the application could have infringed the secrecy of voting, the ban on the application had been disproportionate. it reiterated the kúria’s finding that although the case related to the freedom of expression of voters, this had not been infringed by the decision of the election commission, which had only found that the method used – that is to say uploading photographs to a mobile application – had not been in compliance with the obligation to exercise voting rights in accordance with their purpose.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in ankara. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties and as they appear from the documents submitted by them, may be summarised as follows. in his statement to the police, made in the presence of his lawyer, the applicant said that he had picked up s.k. around 2 a.m. while he was patrolling with his colleague, s.a., according to the applicant they had also offered to take her to the police station, which she had also declined. had started behaving strangely, taking off her clothes and acting in a sexually inviting manner. and told him that they had to leave immediately. said that she had flagged down a police car that day to ask for help. as she had been intoxicated, she could not remember exactly what had happened later or which officer had raped her. he therefore argued that the case should be referred to the ankara assize court, which has jurisdiction to hear such charges. on 13 july 2004 the ankara criminal court of first instance ruled that it did not have jurisdiction to hear the case. who, contrary to her previous statements, submitted that the officers had not raped her and had not taken her anywhere without her consent. could not be deemed to have committed the separate offence of the unlawful use of a public vehicle. it therefore acquitted them of all the charges. an investigation report dated 6 june 2002, prepared by the police investigator, concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of rape, while s.a. he has therefore committed the offence of ‘sexual assault’ and he furthermore used his position as a police officer by calling the victim a ‘suspect’ in order to lure her into the police car ... criminal proceedings are pending against the applicant on charges of abuse of authority under article 240 of the turkish criminal code. after examination of the file, it appears that the case concerns the applicant’s dismissal from the police force on the basis of a disciplinary investigation which established that he had intercourse with a woman without her consent on the pretext of calling her a suspect .., by asking her to get into a police car so that he could verify her identity at the police station, although in the end he took her to a piece of empty land and had intercourse with her without her consent. on 13 march 2006 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal by a majority by endorsing the reasons provided by the ankara administrative court. one judge out of the five expressed a dissenting opinion, reasoning that the applicant had been acquitted of the charges in the parallel criminal proceedings, including of rape, and that therefore the disciplinary decision to dismiss him from the police force on those grounds could no longer be upheld. on 27 may 2009 the applicant’s request was dismissed.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in budapest. she is the widow of a well-known hungarian poet, györgy faludy. they married in 2002, and their relationship, partly due to a significant difference in age, as well as their life and work, were constantly the subject of widespread media coverage. on an unspecified date in 2008 an article was published in a daily newspaper, blikk, based on an interview with the applicant, revealing that she wanted to have a child who would be a blood relative of both her and her late husband and have the same intellect and attitude as him. the widow does everything for the limelight”. despite a previous request by the applicant, the article made no mention of a book to be published on the applicant’s late husband. the applicant asked for a further article to be published but the newspaper declined. she maintained that the headline published on 26 march 2008 had negatively affected her public image. she had also received a lot of criticism from her acquaintances. the remainder of the applicant’s claim for compensation was dismissed. the kossuth prize winner and internationally recognised poet had a tendency to push the boundaries, openly admitted his homosexual adventures and love affairs, and held that taboos were to be dismantled. therefore, when the country just began to digest and accept his relationship with fanny, the poet accepted an offer from penthouse magazine, which has since closed down, agreeing to be presented in the magazine in high-quality erotic pictures with his lover ... [the plaintiff] had even been subject of numerous hurtful and degrading remarks and attacks during györgy faludy’s life. based on the witness statements and the role the plaintiff’s late husband played in public life, the court concluded that the applicant’s idea about childbearing was not contrary to the thinking of györgy faludy...” 13. the regional court added that both the applicant and her late husband had unusual, provocative personalities and ways of thinking, and the statement according to which she had infringed her late husband’s memory did not correspond to reality and was unjustifiably hurtful. on 8 december 2011 the budapest court of appeal reversed the previous judgment finding an infringement of the applicant’s reputation and dismissed her action in its entirety. it also stressed that statements should be assessed in context and with regard to their background. the court explained in detail that the applicant and her husband had triggered controversial reactions and “everyday people with an average mindset” would have had an opinion on their relationship and marriage. the applicant lodged a petition for review with the kúria. in a judgment of 12 september 2012, the kúria endorsed the finding of the second-instance court that the headline did not constitute a statement of fact but a value judgment concerning the unusual manner in which the applicant intended to start a family. since it was not devoid of factual basis, it could not be considered humiliating, hurtful or offensive and as such had not infringed the applicant’s dignity.
the applicants’ particulars appear in the appendix to this judgment. before the military action, the vast majority of the population of krajina fled croatia. most of them went to bosnia and herzegovina but some also went to serbia. on 5 november 1997 croatia ratified the convention. p.m. was killed during operation storm on 5 august 1995. according to the applicants, p.m. was killed in the courtyard of his house in razbojište, although he was an unarmed civilian. the villages of razbojište, krupa and žegar and the settlement of milići are located near each other. on 24 november 2003 the third applicant identified the remains as those of her father, p.m. 11. on 11 august 2015 the zadar police received an anonymous letter stating that on 10 august 1995 two men, v.g. said that he had never heard of someone being killed in the “milića” cave even though he had lived all his life in the area. on 26 august 2015 the zadar police informed the zadar county state attorney’s office that five persons had been killed in the settlement of milići during operation storm, one of whom was p.m., who had died on 5 august 1995. a captain in the croatian army during operation storm, who had been in command of the zadar military police third company of the 72nd battalion, who said that he had never been to žegar and had never heard of anyone being killed there. he had been in benkovac (a town situated some forty kilometres from žegar) throughout operation storm. on 16 september 2015 the police interviewed m.b., a croatian soldier and member of the 72nd battalion during operation storm. he also said that he had never been to žegar and had never heard of anyone being killed there. on 22 january 2016 the zadar county state attorney’s office informed its counterpart in split county that it had not been able to confirm the allegations made in the anonymous letter of 11 august 2015 as there was no indication that twelve elderly people had been killed in the “milića” cave. on 5 september 2005 the applicants submitted a claim for damages with the state attorney’s office in connection with the killing of p.m. the request was refused. in addition, the claim had become statute‑barred. the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 21 september 2010.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. the applicant signed a contract with the then bulgarian ministry of agriculture and forests (hereafter “the ministry”) on 15 july 2004. according to the terms of the contract the applicant undertook to act as a legal representative for the ministry in a case before the international court of arbitration in paris, for which the ministry was to pay him 58,100 bulgarian levs (bgn, about eur 29,600). this sum comprised a legal fee and all related costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with the representation. the ministry paid the applicant half of the amount due on the day the contract was signed. the proceedings before the international court of arbitration in paris ended on 28 november 2005. on 19 december 2005 the applicant asked the ministry to pay him the balance due, but the ministry failed to reply. as the ministry still did not reply, the applicant sought the assistance of the ombudsman. in july 2006 the ministry asked the sofia bar association to open disciplinary proceedings against the applicant for acting against the interests of his client, the ministry. the sofia bar association terminated those proceedings the same year after establishing that the applicant had not acted contrary to the interests of the ministry. the ministry did not pay the balance due to the applicant. instead, on 26 july 2006 the ministry brought a civil claim against him in court, seeking damages for his failure to carry out the duties ensuing from the contract of 15 july 2004. the court found further that, because the applicant had complied with his contractual obligations, the payment he had received, corresponding to the first half of the agreed fee, had been owed and duly paid to him by the ministry. the court held, however, that the applicant owed the ministry the amount of bgn 4,648 (about eur 2,300) by way of penalty because during the arbitration proceedings he had omitted to transmit to the ministry a request by the arbitrator that the original of a document be submitted to the latter. the court therefore allowed the ministry’s claim for the amount of bgn 5,102.88, which corresponded to bgn 4,648 by way of penalty and bgn 418.88 for case-related costs. the judgment of the sofia court of appeal thus became final on that date. on 12 july 2011 the applicant again asked the ministry, through a duly served notarial request, to pay to him the amount of bgn 57,964.81, which represented bgn 29,050 (the principal amount, corresponding to the balance of the fee due to him), bgn 12,874.58 (default penalty agreed in the contract in case of the ministry’s failure to fulfil its contractual obligations), bgn 20,143.23 (legal interest rate) and bgn 581 (costs and expenses), minus the 8% default penalty in the amount of bgn 4,648 which the sofia court of appeal had ordered the applicant to pay to the ministry in its judgment. on 15 july 2011 the ministry replied that its debts were to be paid from its annual budget and, in the event of the non-availability of funds, money for outstanding debts was to be included at the latest in the following year’s budget. the ministry also asked the applicant to submit the original writ of execution. they replied in writing the same month stating that they had received the original writ of enforcement on 24 february 2006 but could not trace what had happened to it thereafter.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in leipzig. on 20 july 2012 the munich ii regional court, after taking evidence at seventeen days of hearing, issued a decision limiting the prosecution to charges concerning four incidents which had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. in a judgment delivered on the same day, the regional court convicted the applicant of four counts of coercion to engage in sexual activity, committed between 19 and 25 august 2007, and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. in its findings of fact, the regional court stated that between january 2001 and october 2007 the applicant had forced p., aged between 29 and 35 at the relevant time and suffering from a moderate mental disorder and an autistic and speech disorder, to satisfy him manually or orally on at least fifty further occasions (out of the at least 300 offences the applicant had initially been charged with, see paragraph 7 above). p. had notably explained how the applicant had regularly, when his wife and son were absent, brought her into his apartment or in the basement boiler room, had undressed himself and had instructed her how to satisfy him, partly while playing pornographic films. the applicant had systematically threatened p. that she would have to return to a home for the disabled if she did not comply with his requests. ´s consistent statements was confirmed by further witnesses and three psychological expert opinions on p. the regional court explained that it had restricted the conviction to the four events that had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. the injured party herself said that the applicant had coerced her to perform sexual acts from as early as 2001. from 2003, the frequency of these incidents had increased and the applicant had demanded sexual gratification from her approximately every 1½ weeks. a conviction for those events was only made impossible by the victim’s incapacity to substantiate them in terms of the time and the place where they happened in a manner making it possible to define them as procedural offences (offences in the procedural sense). (“die kammer ist aufgrund der glaubhaften aussage der geschädigten davon überzeugt, dass es neben den vier abgeurteilten taten im zeitraum januar 2001 bis oktober 2007 zu mindestens 50 weiteren, vergleichbaren fällen kam. die geschädigte selbst gab an, der angeklagte habe sie bereits ab dem jahr 2001 zu sexuellen handlungen genötigt. ab dem jahr 2003 sei die frequenz dieser vorfälle gestiegen und der angeklagte habe ungefähr alle 1 ½ wochen sexuelle befriedigung von ihr verlangt. selbst wenn man zugunsten des angeklagten die jahr 2001 und 2002 sowie den august und oktober 2007 unberücksichtigt lässt und zudem davon ausgeht, dass es ab dem jahr 2003 lediglich einmal im monat zu derartigen vorfällen kam, so ergeben sich 56 fälle. nach abzug eines weiteren sicherheitsabschlags geht die kammer von mindestens 50 weiteren, vergleichbaren fällen im gesamten zeitraum von januar 2001 bis oktober 2007 aus. ...
andererseits wertet die kammer zu lasten des angeklagten den umstand, dass es nach überzeugung der kammer neben den verurteilten vier vorfällen im august 2007 bereits ab januar 2001 zu mindestens 50 vergleichbaren vorfällen gekommen war. da sich nicht mehr mit sicherheit aufklären ließ, in welchen fällen der angeklagte die geschädigte durch seine drohung zu einer oralen und in welchen zu einer manuellen befriedigung brachte, geht die kammer insoweit von 50 weiteren fällen der manuellen befriedigung aus.”) the federal public prosecutor general argued that the regional court had been entitled to take account of the sexual offences committed previously by the applicant as an aggravating element as part of his previous history (vorleben) and thus as one of the elements in setting his sentence under article 46 § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 18 below). on 6 february 2013 the federal court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal as ill-founded, without giving specific reasons.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kyiv. from 25 may 2006 to 15 june 2007 and from 23 november 2007 to 23 may 2008 he was a member of parliament and from 26 december 2007 to 24 march 2010 he was first deputy minister of justice. accordingly, changing the legal services’ provider would be costly and unjustified. the applicant’s letter, which was subsequently submitted to the economy ministry, provided the basis for naftogaz to contract further legal services from magisters ltd without pursuing a bidding procedure. it appears that it was not challenged on points of law. on 6 august 2010 the pgo re-sent the “invitation” to the applicant. in describing the applicant’s actus reus, the prosecutor found that he had bypassed the registry of the ministry of justice when accepting the request from naftogaz and issuing his letter in reply; that his conclusion about the existence of exceptional conditions for naftogaz not to pursue a bidding procedure had been in contradiction with the applicable legal provisions; and that he had had no right to put that conclusion on official ministry of justice paper. later that day the investigator called the applicant by telephone to summon him for questioning. at the time, he was in hospital with his wife, who was giving birth to their third child. in the afternoon of 22 december 2010, the applicant appeared before the investigator and after being questioned was arrested at 4.50 p.m. under articles 106 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”; see paragraph 41 below). the procedural rights of arrestees were also listed. on 24 december 2010 the applicant challenged his arrest before a court. that indicated, in his opinion, that he had had no intention of absconding or hindering the investigation. the court therefore extended the applicant’s preliminary detention to ten days as a temporary preventive measure. it rejected the applicant’s complaint about his arrest as unsubstantiated. on 2 january 2011 the applicant appealed. furthermore, he complained that the pecherskyy court had failed to justify the application of what was the most intrusive preventive measure available in his case. there was no reference in the ruling to the application by the bar association president. the applicant publicly denied those rumours. publicly available material shows that he was amnestied in december 2011.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in csobánka, hungary. the couple, who were becoming gradually estranged, returned to hungary in 2004. on 26 december 2004, after a quarrel, h.b. took their son and left for an unknown destination. the interim decision became final on 14 january 2006. meanwhile, on 29 november 2005 the applicant had lodged a criminal complaint with the szentendre police department alleging child abduction. and obtain information regarding the whereabouts of the child, but they had failed to do so. on 2 april 2008 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the sopron police department alleging h.b. was not aware of the district court’s judgment containing the obligation to pay child maintenance. on 4 april 2008 the applicant lodged another criminal complaint with the szentendre police department. a complaint submitted by the applicant challenging this decision was dismissed on 17 december 2009. as a consequence, they became aware that the child was registered as attending school in sopron. and the child might be residing in the united states. apparently, no further measures were taken in these proceedings. had been placed in immigration detention in canada. was expelled from canada and was ordered to leave the country before 7 january 2010. had not been on the flight indicated by the canadian police. the proceedings of the latter were also fruitless. was apprehended in budapest and the child could at last be located. article 14
in ascertaining whether there has been a wrongful removal or retention within the meaning of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the requested state may take notice directly of the law of, and of judicial or administrative decisions, formally recognised or not in the state of the habitual residence of the child, without recourse to the specific procedures for the proof of that law or for the recognition of foreign decisions which would otherwise be applicable.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in town uzlovaya, tula region. it took them about two hours to clear the square. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. on 6 may 2012 he took part in the demonstration at bolotnaya square. after the events the applicant continued to live at his usual address and pursue his studies. on 9 june 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 8 august 2012. it referred to the gravity of the charges and stated that if at liberty the applicant could co-ordinate his position with accomplices, who had yet to be discovered and whose identities were still being established by the investigation. it considered that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed. on 12 september 2012 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 6 august 2012. on 30 october 2012 the basmannyy district court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2013, essentially on the same grounds as earlier, noting that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed. on 6 june 2013 that court granted another extension of the applicant’s detention, until 24 november 2013. the decision concerned eleven defendants. the moscow city court upheld that extension order on 2 july 2013. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). in addition, he had been required to strip naked and to perform sit-ups during the body search conducted in the convoy room. on 6 june 2013 court proceedings began in hearing room no. from mid-september 2013 to the end of 2013 the hearings continued at the nikulinskiy district court of moscow in hearing room no. also questioned as a witness, testified that the applicant had thrown stones at the police officers. on the same day at 5 p.m. at the latest [the defendants] acquired the criminal intent to participate in mass disorder and to use violence against ... police officers ...
thus, in furtherance of this criminal intent, at an unidentified time and place ... [the applicant] ... put on a mask to conceal his face so that he could not be recognised and brought to responsibility for committing unlawful acts ...
... between 5 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. [the applicant] ... repeatedly shouted anti‑government slogans.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in tekirdağ. on 9 september 1995 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on the same day the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court prolonged the applicant’s detention in police custody for a period of up to 15 days. on 13 september 1995 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. the applicant confessed to being a member of an illegal organisation and having been involved in a murder. organised by the police in the absence of a lawyer. according to a report, drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant and k.a., both of the accused gave the details of the murder which they had committed. on 22 september 1995 the applicant was examined by a doctor from the istanbul forensic institute. a collective medical report was drawn up in respect of the applicant and five other suspects. according to the report, there were no traces of ill-treatment on the applicant’s body. on 22 september 1995 the applicant was heard by a public prosecutor and an investigating judge respectively. in his statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements alleging that they had been taken under duress. following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on 7 december 1995 the applicant was heard by the trial court during the first hearing in the presence of his lawyer. the applicant denied all the charges against him and stated that his statements at the police had been taken under duress. in the meantime, state security courts were abolished by law no. on 13 september 2007, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s and his co-accused k. a.’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court held that the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 § 1 of the criminal code and sentenced him to life-imprisonment. on an unknown date the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment of 13 september 2007. on 1 december 2008 the court of cassation upheld the above judgment.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in kyiv. it culminated in russia cutting off supplies in early january 2009, affecting not only ukraine but also european states dependent on russian gas. 1, a claim of 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas imported by way of transit to ukraine by rosukrenergo ag was ceded to naftogaz ukrayiny. on 22 june 2010 the police questioned mr sh., on 23 june 2010 the applicant appeared for questioning as a witness in the proceedings against d. he was accompanied by his lawyer. at 6.42 p.m. on 23 june 2010 the applicant signed the decision on the institution of criminal proceedings against him with a statement that he had de facto been under arrest from 3.43 p.m. that day. he emphasised that he was willing to cooperate with the investigation and that his behaviour in the proceedings had been flawless. on 24 june 2010 the kyiv pecherskyy district court (“the pecherskyy court”) remanded the applicant in custody for two months. by way of reasoning, the court noted that the applicant was suspected of a serious offence potentially entailing imprisonment; that he could interfere with investigative activities, either by absconding or tampering with evidence; and that he was capable of influencing witnesses, regard being had, in particular, to his connections with former colleagues, his prominent social status and his wealth. the applicant appealed, contending in particular that his arrest had been arbitrary and not based on a reasonable suspicion that he had committed a crime. he had been a civil servant with an impeccable reputation, no prior criminal record, strong family ties and a permanent residence in kyiv. lastly, he referred to the surety offered by the members of parliament to ensure his proper conduct in the proceedings. the appellate court also concurred with the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant might take advantage of his social connections and wealth to influence the investigation if he remained at liberty. on 27 september and 12 october 2010 the shevchenkivskyy court and the court of appeal, respectively, rejected the applicant’s complaint, finding that the investigator had acted in accordance with the law. there was no follow up to that complaint. on 14 april 2011 the pecherskyy court held a preparatory hearing for the applicant’s trial. on 26 april 2011 the pecherskyy court remitted the case to the prosecutor general’s office for further investigation given that meanwhile, on 11 april 2011, the latter had instituted criminal proceedings against former prime minister tymoshenko on suspicion of abuse of authority for signing the gas contracts in january 2009 (see paragraph 7 above). on 5 july 2011 the court of appeal released the applicant under an undertaking not to abscond. on 20 july 2012 the pecherskyy court found him guilty as charged and gave him a suspended sentence of four years’ imprisonment. the parties did not inform the court of any further developments in the criminal proceedings against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kharkiv. on 6 february 2004 a certain m. went to the passport registration office where the applicant worked to apply for a passport for her son, who had reached the age of sixteen. the applicant allegedly told m. that it might be time-consuming to settle the matter, in particular because of the fact that m.’s son had been born in russia and his original birth certificate was not available. on 7 february 2004 m. made a written statement to the kharkiv kyivskyy district police that the applicant had asked for a bribe of usd 100 to speed up the passport issuance procedure. according to the police records, the above statement was made at 5 p.m. however, as subsequently established (see paragraph 59 below), that was an error and the actual time of the statement was about 10 a.m. 10. at about 1 p.m. on the same day m. entered the applicant’s office and emerged a few minutes later, indicating to the investigator and the attesting witnesses that she had given the usd 100 banknote to the applicant. the police officer then checked the applicant’s hands with a special device and found traces of the luminescent liquid. the applicant had also clarified that she would be working in a different office from monday, 9 february 2004. and the latter was admitted to the proceedings. eventually, the police located him and on 14 october 2005 he made a written statement that he would appear at a hearing scheduled for 17 october 2005 (with no further details available). it is not known whether there was a hearing on 6 december 2005. the verdict noted that the applicant had initially confessed to the offences, but had later retracted her confession for no apparent reason other than an attempt to escape liability. the applicant did not refer in her appeal or in its supplement to her inability to examine t. or to have him examined. furthermore, the appellate court noted that the whereabouts of m. and t. could not be established. on 22 june 2012 the investigator sent her a letter stating that her request could not be granted because she had not provided any address or other details about the planned trip. on 12 october 2012 the investigator terminated the criminal proceedings against the applicant for lack of the constituent elements of a crime in her actions. on 22 march 2013 a criminal investigation into the applicant’s failure to comply with the judgment of 16 february 2006 was launched again and was registered in the unified register of pre-trial investigations. she enclosed copies of the two rulings of those dates, by which the investigator had opened and had discontinued the criminal proceedings against her. as regards her undertaking not to leave the town, the court concluded that it had only been applicable from 10 to 20 november 2009. the prosecution authorities refused to open a criminal case against the police on several occasions.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in istanbul. on 20 january 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody. on 22 january 2009 the edirne magistrates’ court placed the applicant in detention on remand on suspicion of forming an organised criminal organisation to commit offences and illegal possession of firearms contrary to article 13 § 1 of law no. on 3 july 2009 the edirne public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the edirne assize court charging the applicant with membership of an organised criminal organisation as well as fraud and robbery. on 8 july 2009 the edirne assize court held that it had no jurisdiction and referred the case file to the istanbul assize court. the court also ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 12 august 2009 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 29 december 2009 the first hearing was held before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court. on 4 may 2010 the istanbul assize court held another hearing and decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on remand. the applicant was present at this hearing. the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 25 may 2010 his objection was dismissed by the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court without holding an oral hearing. by decisions dated 30 june 2010 and 8 july 2010 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court rejected the applicant’s requests for release without holding an oral hearing. on 30 september 2010 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held the third hearing in the proceedings and again prolonged the applicant’s detention. the applicant was present at this hearing. on 11 october 2011 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize held the seventh hearing in the proceedings and released the applicant from detention on remand. at the time when he present application was lodged with the court, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first‑instance court. the parties did not submit any further information concerning the outcome of the proceedings.
the applicants were born in 1931, 1972, 1948, 1965, 1970, and 1964 respectively, and live in golubovci. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicants intervened, as injured party, in criminal proceedings against x, in the course of which they sought 2.705,70 euros (eur) as compensation for legal costs. on an unspecified date x and the high state prosecutor appealed. on 30 march 2009 the applicants appealed in respect of costs and expenses. on 6 may 2009 the high court transmitted the applicants’ appeal to the court of appeal (apelacioni sud) in podgorica. on 22 september 2009 the court of appeal ruled on the appeals lodged by the high state prosecutor and x. the applicants learned of this judgment on 27 may 2010 when checking the case-file at the high court. on 28 may 2010 the applicants complained to the president of the supreme court that the court of appeal had failed to rule on their appeal. on 7 june 2010 the president of the supreme court notified them that she had been informed by the high court president that the case file had been “at the court of appeal in order for it to rule on [their] appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings given that it had not been ruled upon by [its] judgment of 22 september 2009”. on 24 october 2011 the applicants requested the president of the high court to transmit the case file to the court of appeal given that they had learnt that the file had been archived in the high court, contrary to what that court had said to the president of the supreme court. on 11 january 2012 the applicants again complained to the president of the supreme court. it would appear that the court of appeal has not ruled on the applicants’ appeal. on 14 march 2011, in the absence of any ruling by the court of appeal, the applicants filed a compensation claim against the state. on 17 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in podgorica rejected the claim (odbacuje se) finding that the high court had awarded them the costs, which judgment had become final in the meantime, and that the issue was thus res iudicata. on 7 july 2011 the high court upheld this judgment. it further held that the applicants’ dissatisfaction with the costs awarded in the criminal proceedings did not mean that they could claim them by a regular civil claim (putem redovne građanske tužbe). in any event, the civil proceedings could not serve to correct the final decisions issued in criminal proceedings. on 8 december 2011 the high court issued a decision ordering its finance department (računovodstvo) to pay the applicants’ representative the amount awarded by the high court on 14 october 2008. this decision became final on 5 january 2012, given that no appeal was lodged against it. on 10 january 2017 the high court informed the agent’s office that the court of appeal had not ruled on the applicants’ appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings, but that the high court, after its judgment of 14 october 2008 had become final, had issued a decision on 8 december 2011 ordering that the applicants’ representative be paid the sum awarded thereby.
at the time of the events the applicant was serving in the turkish army as a lieutenant-colonel. on 8 may, 10 may and 11 may 2000, the applicant was interrogated by the military prosecutor within the context of a criminal investigation initiated against him for embezzlement. on 16 june 2000 an arrest warrant was issued in respect of the applicant on suspicion of embezzlement. 19 june 2000 the applicant applied to the military prosecutor’s office. he was placed in detention on remand on the same day by the general staff military court. on the same day, the applicant gave a power of attorney to a lawyer. on 22 june 2000 the applicant’s brother şükrü aymelek, who was a lawyer, was also placed in detention on remand. on 10 april 2012 the applicant’s brother was released. on 26 june 2000 the general staff military prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the general staff military court charging the applicant with embezzlement under section 131 of military criminal code, involving in trade activities as a soldier under additional section 1 of military criminal code and breaching article 13 of the law no. 3628 (law on disclosure of assets and fight against bribery and corruption). the siblings of the applicant, şükrü aymelek and ulviye toprakkıran were also charged with the same bill of indictment with embezzlement and breaching article 13 of the law no. on 29 may 2001 the general staff military prosecutor filed an additional bill of indictment and charged the accused with additional acts related to the crimes already stated in the first bill of indictment. on 19 september 2001, the applicant submitted a petition with the prison authorities, complaining that he had not been able to see his brother şükrü aymelek, who was also detained in remand. the applicant stated that he regretted that his brother was also in prison because of him, and requested to see him. on 6 january 2003 the applicant appealed against the decision of the general staff military court. on 2 april 2003 the military court of cassation quashed the judgment of 19 september 2002 on procedural grounds and on the merits. on 17 december 2003 the general staff military court found the applicant guilty for embezzlement and being involved in trade activities as a soldier, but reduced his prison sentence. on 2 june 2004 the military court of cassation upheld the decision of 17 december 2003. the applicant submitted that witness’ written statements to the military court of cassation as well. on 19 february 2014 rejected the applicant’s request for reopening of the criminal proceedings, on the grounds that the witness’ statements did not have any evidential value, which could warrant a lesser sentence or the acquittal of the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1963 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in adana. on 16 february 2006 a gathering was held in adana on the anniversary of the arrest of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation. the protesters gathered in front of the building of the adana branch of the democratic society party (demokratik toplum partisi) (dtp), where a press statement was read out. being a member of the dtp, the applicant participated in the gathering. subsequently, clashes occurred between police officers and some demonstrators who were attempting to block the traffic. according to police reports, two police officers were injured as a result of objects thrown from the dtp building. the police then entered the dtp building and arrested 223 people, including the applicant. the next day, the applicant was detained on remand. on 10 march 2006 the adana public prosecutor charged the applicant and sixteen other people with membership of the pkk under articles 220 § 6 and 314 of the criminal code. the prosecutor alleged that the accused had participated in the public gathering in question in response to calls made by the pkk and had resisted the police officers, and that they had therefore acted on behalf of the pkk. on 5 may 2006 the applicant was released pending trial. on 10 september 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the assize court did not find it established that the applicant had attended the reading out of the press statement in response to calls made by the pkk or that she had injured any police officers. it therefore concluded that the applicant could not be convicted of membership of the pkk or resistance to the police. the court nonetheless considered that on 16 february 2006 the applicant had gone to the dtp building with a view to disseminating propaganda in support of the pkk and that she should therefore be convicted under section 7(2) of law no. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. taking into account the applicant’s good behaviour during the trial and the absence of any previous criminal record, the court suspended the pronouncement of her conviction on condition that she did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması). on 20 november 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision. the final decision was served on the applicant on 9 january 2009.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lived in moscow until his arrest. at 5.30 p.m. the police ordered the meeting to finish early and began to disperse the participants. it took them about two hours to clear the square. in response, the protesters dragged metal barriers in place to protect themselves from the police. after the events in question he continued to live at his usual address and pursue his studies. on 26 july 2012 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having participated in acts of mass disorder on 6 may 2012. on 1 august 2012 charges were brought against the applicant under article 212 § 2 (participation in acts of mass disorder accompanied by violence). on 22 october 2012 the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the extension order of 24 september 2012. on 15 november and 21 december 2012 the charges against the applicant were reformulated. the applicant’s alleged offences were classified additionally under article 318 § 1 of the criminal code (use of violence against a public official). on 5 march 2013 the basmannyy district court granted a new extension of the applicant’s detention, until 6 july 2013, essentially on the same grounds as before. on 17 april 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order. on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld that extension order. 35297/05, §§ 25-29 and 40-44, 23 october 2012; and vyatkin v. russia, no. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). the applicant had caused him pain but had not inflicted any injuries. on 21 february 2014 the zamoskvoretsky district court of moscow found the applicant guilty as charged. he did not see what was happening, but at one point ... he had been able to proceed with the flow of people towards the stage. then [the applicant] was arrested and taken to a police vehicle. he insisted that he had not used violence against t. because the latter had not suffered any pain or injuries.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in moscow. the background facts relating to the planning, conduct and dispersal of the demonstration at bolotnaya square are set out in more detail in frumkin v. russia (no. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). it took them about two hours to clear the square. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. on 14 may 2012 the justice of the peace of the 100th court circuit of the yakimanka district of moscow found the applicant guilty of non‑compliance with a lawful order by a police officer, an offence under article 19.3 of the code of administrative offences. on 30 may 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 6 july 2012. on 13 november 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the extension order, which was dismissed on 3 december 2012 by the moscow city court. on 23 april 2013 the moscow city court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 july 2013. the decision concerned eleven defendants. on 18 june 2013 the court began the trial on the merits. other police officers had picked him up to take away him from the crowd. testified that the applicant had kicked an unidentified police officer. [the applicant] ... pleaded not guilty and testified that ... he wanted to see why the meeting was not starting and went to malyy kamennyy bridge where he saw the cordon ... around 7.30 p.m. [the applicant] saw how police officers ... started beating people with truncheons. ... then a jam occurred ... at some point [the applicant] found himself in the first line and saw the police officers harshly arresting and beating people, who tried to evade the blows. a few minutes later he was taken out of the crowd and beaten, his t-shirt was torn, then ... four police officers seized him and dragged him along the tarmac to the police vehicle. [ the applicant] insists that he caused no injuries to the police officer and that his actions, provoked by panic, were taken in response to the events occurring around him. ... ... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from the police officers or happened to be victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at the mitigation of their responsibility ...
... no medical document which could prove the presence of injuries on the [applicant’s] body ... was provided to the court.” the applicant’s pre-trial detention counted towards the prison sentence. he insisted that he had been a victim of unlawful police action and that his involvement in using violence against the police officer has not been proven.
the applicant company is a limited liability company established under lithuanian law with its registered office in vilnius. the first of the three advertisements showed a young man with long hair, a headband, a halo around his head and several tattoos wearing a pair of jeans. a caption at the bottom of the image read “jesus, what trousers!” ( she had a halo around her head and was holding a string of beads. in this case the game has gone too far. ( humour is understandable but it can really offend religious people. on 8 october 2012 the scrpa received a complaint from a law firm in kaunas concerning the advertisements. religious people always react very sensitively to any use of religious symbols or religious personalities in advertising. advertisements must not include statements or visuals which are offensive to religious feelings or show disrespect for religious people.” dievuliau, viešpatie, gink dieve) and many others. on 27 november 2012 the inspectorate drew up a report of a violation of the law on advertising against the applicant company. the report essentially repeated the contents of the inspectorate’s previous letter to the applicant company (see paragraph 13 above), adding that “advertisements of such nature offend[ed] religious feelings” and “the basic respect for spirituality [was] disappearing” (nelieka elementarios pagarbos dvasingumui). christ and mary, as symbols of faith, represent certain moral values and embody ethical perfection, and for that they are examples of appropriate behaviour and desirable life for the faithful. a representative of the bishops conference repeated its previous position (see paragraph 16 above) and stated that it had received complaints from about a hundred religious individuals concerning the advertisements. they in particular argued that the people depicted in the advertisements differed in several aspects from the depiction of jesus and mary in religious art, and that an educated and cosmopolitan society would not equate every picture with such art. they further submitted that the advertisements had relied on wordplay and they had been meant to be funny but not to offend anyone. it further stated:
“when determining whether the use of religious symbols in the present case was contrary to public morals, [the scrpa] notes that religious people react very sensitively to any use of religious symbols or religious persons in advertising, especially when the chosen form of artistic expression is not acceptable to society – for example, the bodies of jesus and mary are adorned with tattoos. [ on 12 november 2013 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the applicant company’s complaint. he considered that it was necessary to assess whether the decision of 25 april 2014 (see paragraph 25 above) had adequately addressed the applicant company’s arguments related to the permissible restrictions of freedom of expression, guaranteed by the constitution and various international legal instruments, and whether it had properly examined the necessity and proportionality of restricting that freedom, in line with the relevant case-law of the european court of human rights. it emphasised that proceedings which had been concluded by a final court decision could be reopened only when there had been a manifest error in the interpretation or application of the law, and not when it was merely possible to interpret that law differently.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in diyarbakır. he had to suspend his studies until he had recovered sufficiently to return to university. the faculty replied to that request by letter of 25 may 2007. it added that the mechanics course required the applicant to participate in practical workshops, considering that as things stood such participation would cause problems. the faculty concluded that if the applicant wished to continue his studies it would help him as far as possible. on 16 august 2007 the applicant sent, through a notary, formal notice to the administration of fırat university and the faculty dean inviting them to carry out the redevelopment work requested. relying on article 42 of the constitution, section 15 of law no. 5378 on persons with disabilities and article 2 of protocol no. furthermore, any problems encountered by the applicant in attending the theoretical classes administered in a three-storey building could be resolved with the help of a companion. furthermore, all the parties involved were anxious to help students in difficulty, and there was no question of deterring the applicant from continuing his studies. on 15 november 2007 the applicant filed with the elazığ administrative court an action for annulment of the university’s replies of 25 may and 10 september 2007 and to provide compensation for the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage which he claimed he had sustained. the administration of fırat university replied in a defence memorial of 24 march 2008. lastly, it pointed out that the applicant had never been barred from any course. the applicant replied, refuting the arguments put forward by the administration. 1 to the convention, and that it was incumbent on the domestic authorities to take steps to enable him to exercise that right, with respect for the principle of equal opportunities. 3194 on urban planning (see paragraph 23 above). 2009/15546, published in the official gazette (“the og”) on 13 november 2009, closing down certain categories of institutions of higher education, including technical faculties, one of which was the technical faculty of fırat university, which was replaced by a new faculty of technology. in the reasoning of its judgment it stated, in particular, that the buildings in question had been erected in accordance with the regulations in force in 1988. the court took the view that although it was incumbent on the authorities to apply the technical guidelines set out in the legislation subsequently enacted for persons with disabilities, it could not be contended that the respondent authority had not followed those guidelines during the construction of a building erected in 1988, before the guidelines had come into force. on 18 january 2011 the supreme administrative court delivered a judgment dismissing that appeal on points of law and upholding the first-instance judgment as being in conformity with the procedure and laws.
the applicants were born in 1945 and 1951 respectively and live in sliema. for twenty-five years as from 15 june 1962 at 100 maltese liras (mtl – approximately 233 euros (eur)) per year. according to the contract the tenant was responsible for all maintenance work, both ordinary and extraordinary, internally and externally. on 15 june 1987, by operation of law (act xxii of 1979), that contract was converted into one of lease, and the owner continued to receive rent. had three children, one of whom was unmarried. at the time the applicants lived in the united kingdom. whether he was willing to vacate the property, but he did not consent to do so. eventually the applicants agreed that j.g. in 1993 the applicants returned to malta. eventually, given their advanced age (80 and 81 respectively) and the fact that their children owned properties of their own – thus making it unlikely that they would return to live in the premises – the applicants decided not to take formal steps to have them evicted. allegedly the applicants spent eur 12,000 in maintenance and furnishings. in 2004 and 2008 respectively her parents passed away. as a tenant and refused to accept rent from her. a seventy-year old pensioner, had a constant and considerable income (a monthly pension of 900 pounds sterling (gbp), and during her stay in malta she was letting her property in the uk at gbp 1,000 a month); she eventually sold her property in the uk for gbp 305,000. she went on to inherit various assets and sold them for a considerable sum. the applicants further relied on article 14 of the convention. the government and the tenant appealed and the applicants cross‑appealed. the applicants are now of pensionable age. the government submitted that the applicants had failed to prove that they had been paying rent and, if so, what rent they had been paying for these premises. according to the applicants, they have since moved to a different property.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1984. they are currently serving life sentences imposed in the impugned proceedings described below. according to an expert report admitted in the ensuing proceedings, around 70 bullets were fired towards the café. following a criminal complaint for murder lodged against unknown perpetrators, on 3 august 2006 the public prosecutor requested that an investigating judge question the victims and a certain b.h. between 6 and 19 december 2006 the investigating judge heard oral evidence from the victims and other witnesses. none of them identified the applicants as the perpetrators. during the investigation, there were several unsuccessful attempts by the investigating judge to summons b.h. on 27 february and 23 march 2007 he confirmed that he had been present at the scene at the time of the incident and that he had been shot in the upper leg. in that context, he had received threats that he would be killed. vodno” also identified the other applicant as having fired on the café. both witnesses repeated the statements they had given before the investigating judge and reiterated their fear of negative repercussions. who did not recognise mr ramiz asani as the buyer of the car used in the incident. on 23 june 2008 the trial court delivered a judgment in which it found the applicants guilty of murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment. the applicants’ presence at the scene when the incident happened, as well as the development and dynamics of events, was established on the basis of the testimony of the anonymous witnesses “korab” and “vodno”, which the court regarded as credible and consistent despite “small differences which were due to the intensity of the shooting and fear for their lives”. had been visited several times by unknown people who had threatened him and his family about the testimony given in the pre-trial proceedings. had fled the respondent state and that an arrest warrant (потерница) had been issued against him. they dismissed appeals lodged by the applicants in which they complained inter alia that the trial court had failed to admit evidence proposed by the defence, that their conviction could not be based solely on the statements of the anonymous witnesses, which had been unlawfully obtained, and that the trial court had not examined b.h. in this connection they found that the trial court had admitted other evidence, both documentary and verbal. as regards the evidence produced by b.h., in subsequent criminal proceedings, he was convicted of murder and sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is serving a sentence of life imprisonment. in december 2005 violent robberies were committed at two scrap metal collection points in odesa. in the course of the investigation, the police organised an ambush, which led to the applicant and his acquaintance, mr d., being arrested. as established by the domestic courts, before his arrest the applicant had pointed a gun at a police officer, who had knocked it out of his hands using a martial arts technique. the gun had been loaded and had had its safety catch released. on an unspecified date the applicant had free legal counsel appointed for him for the pre-trial investigation and the proceedings before the first‑instance court. on 4 september 2006 the odesa regional court of appeal, sitting as a court of first instance, found the applicant guilty of the illegal handling of arms, robbery with violence, intentional murder for profit and an attempt on the life of a law-enforcement officer. it relied, inter alia, on the statements of several eyewitnesses who had recognised the applicant. having regard to the fact that the applicant had previously been convicted of the intentional infliction of fatal injuries and that he had committed the crimes at issue while on probation following release in october 2005, the court sentenced him to life imprisonment. the applicant, who was no longer legally represented, appealed in cassation. he complained, in particular, about the absence of free legal assistance at that stage of the proceedings. the applicant contended that the first-instance court had erred in its assessment of the facts of the case and their legal classification. on 30 january 2007, following a hearing with the participation of mr d. (the other defendant) and his lawyer, as well as the prosecutor, but without the applicant or any representative from his side, the supreme court upheld the judgment of 4 september 2006. on 11 june 2007 the applicant, who was not aware of the above ruling, requested that the supreme court ensure his presence at its hearing. on 17 august 2007 a copy of the supreme court’s ruling of 30 january 2007 was sent to the applicant.
following the death of her grandmother in 2010 the applicant, who was a minor at the time, began to show signs of distress. the police arrived, seized the drugs and alcohol and checked the identity of the minors who were present. a criminal investigation was opened and the public prosecutor at the youth court was informed. 1404 of 1934 and to have the minor placed in a specialist institution and in the care of the social services. they informed the social services that a criminal investigation was in progress. on 18 december 2013 the social services contacted the psychiatrist who was treating the applicant and later met the applicant. the public prosecutor stressed that the arrest of the two suspects was imminent, and requested the prosecutor at the youth court to inform him of the measures taken to implement the youth court’s decision of 9 december 2013 (see paragraph 17 above), given that the applicant was due to give evidence at the ad hoc hearing (incidente probatorio) (see paragraph 51 below). on 20 december 2013 the applicant reiterated that she did not wish to be placed in a specialist institution. on 6 february 2014 the social services told the youth court that they had had several meetings with v.c. on 13 march 2014 the youth mental health department informed the youth court that the applicant had been diagnosed as being anti-social and drug-dependent and that she had agreed to being placed in a treatment centre (comunità terapeutica). the measure took effect on 14 april 2014. the social services did not respond to this request. left the karisma centre and returned to live with her parents. on 22 october 2015 the social services sent a report to the youth court stressing that two meetings had been held with the applicant’s parents and that a psychiatric expert assessment had been carried out. on 19 may 2016 the youth court held a hearing that was not attended by the social services. she stated that she had gone back to school and was continuing to be monitored by the social services. on 22 december 2016 the youth court gave notice to two representatives of the social services to appear before it in order to provide an update on the applicant’s situation. on 21 january 2014 the prosecuting authorities again heard evidence from the applicant. the case was set down for preliminary hearing on 6 november 2015 before the rome district court. it appears from the file that a further hearing was held on 16 february 2016 and that the proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in varna. in the summer of 2002 she obtained temporary residency status. on entering the apartment the officers informed the applicant that they had come to arrest her parents. the applicant’s parents were arrested as soon as they arrived home. he did not know what had happened to the applicant and had not seen her after her parents’ arrest. according to the latter, when her mother was asked by the judge through an interpreter whether there was anyone who could take care of her child, her mother replied by shaking her head. in bulgaria nodding one’s head signifies “no” and shaking it means “yes”. according to the applicant, the judge, having interpreted the mother’s response as “yes”, noted in the record of the hearing: “the child has someone to take care of her”. the officers did not tell the applicant for how long they were taking her parents away, where they would be taken or for what reason. according to the applicant, they indicated that they would either lock her parents in prison or deport them to turkmenistan. she permanently dreaded being herself sent back to turkmenistan, where her relatives were in prison and her grandparents had been made homeless for having opposed the regime. the applicant had to ask people in the street how to reach her school as, before the arrest, her father had always taken her there. she directed her claim against the varna regional office of the ministry of the interior, the prosecution service, the ministry of justice and the supreme judicial council, and sought to establish the responsibility of the authorities that had left her unattended during her parents’ detention in december 2002, in breach of the child protection act. the appellate court upheld the lower court’s decision on 4 october 2006. it remitted the case to the first-instance court, the varna regional court, for a fresh examination. on 25 october 2007 the applicant further specified her claim before the varna regional court, in particular describing her circumstances in the immediate aftermath of her parents’ arrest and the continuing psychological trauma which she had suffered as a result. the applicant’s parents’ lawyer, who had attended the hearings relating to their detention in 2002, testified on 22 february 2008 that he did not know what had happened to the applicant during her parents’ arrest; nor could he remember anything about the circumstances relating to the question and answer in court on 6 december 2002 concerning her care. given that the mother had stated during the hearing on her detention that someone had been taking care of the child, the conditions set out in article 152 of the code of criminal procedure had not been met and, therefore, the institutions involved in the criminal proceedings had not been obliged to pursue steps towards taking the applicant into care. the applicant appealed to the varna court of appeal. the applicant was granted humanitarian status on 10 march 2004 and refugee status on 15 september 2007.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in san jose, the united states of america. on 6 september 2005 the applicant brought proceedings against the private company x and a third party, seeking the recovery of property rights pertaining to land, both on his own behalf and on behalf of six other plaintiffs who were allegedly co-owners of the property. on 21 december 2005 the district court ordered the applicant to inform it by 31 january 2006 of the home addresses of the other six plaintiffs on whose behalf he had brought the proceedings. the applicant complied with the court’s order. on 29 november 2006 the applicant informed the district court on behalf of himself and the other six plaintiffs of the cancellation of the legal representation contract they had signed with their initial legal representative. on 26 january 2009 the district court amended of its own motion the decision of 16 june 2008. it held that some of the parties had in fact attended the hearing of 16 june 2008. however, the proceedings had had to be suspended on the grounds that, according to the available evidence, four of the other six plaintiffs had died prior to 2005 and the applicant had taken no steps to identify the heirs of the deceased parties in order to enable the court to summon them as parties to the proceedings. on 14 october and 9 december 2010 and 3 march 2011 the district court adjourned the proceedings on procedural grounds to allow the plaintiffs’ legal representative to add documents to the file and to prepare his defence, and for the court to deliberate. the court further noted that the proceedings would be suspended according to the civil procedure rules if the applicant failed to comply with the court’s request. it noted that the applicant had made some attempts to obtain the requested information from the relevant domestic authorities, but he had failed to provide relevant information about the plaintiffs which would have enabled the authorities to identify them. moreover, the summonses sent by the court to the known foreign addresses of the other six plaintiffs provided by the applicant had either not been received by the recipients or had been returned because the intended recipients had been unknown at those addresses. the applicant appealed on points of fact and points of law against the decision. on 28 march 2012 the county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of fact and points of law against the district court’s decision of 8 march 2011 (see paragraph 18 above). since he was the one who had brought the proceedings, he had a duty to produce evidence in respect of the persons he was representing and was solely responsible for the way he had chosen to formulate his action before the court. the court was bound by the procedural framework set by the applicant. on 29 november 2012 the county court dismissed the extraordinary appeal for a review of proceedings instituted by the applicant against the final judgment of 28 march 2012 as having been lodged out of time. on 23 may 2013 the district court of its own motion declared the proceedings brought by the applicant on 6 september 2005 (see paragraph 6 above) to be barred by limitation on account of his inaction. it reiterated the reasons provided by the first-instance court. it also held that the extraordinary appeals lodged by the applicant against the judgment of 28 march 2012 (see paragraph 20 above) had not put a stop to the bar by limitation, because they could not be considered as procedural acts aimed at reopening the proceedings.
the applicant company is a legal entity registered in vilnius. there were two military barracks, a canteen, a store house and two sheds. the applicant company’s claim was dismissed on 23 october 2003 by the klaipėda regional administrative court and on 27 january 2004 by the supreme administrative court. the authorities replied that the applicant company had to provide a plan of the land. in february 2006 the applicant company asked the authorities to include the land in question in the landscape management recreational zone. in may 2012 the ministry of environment and the protected areas service replied that they had set up a working group to determine a compensation mechanism for the property that had to be expropriated. the working group was set on 20 july 2012 and had to provide its proposals before 19 november 2012. the applicant company applied for the reopening of the proceedings. the working group was set up on 20 july 2012 and its proposals were to be submitted by 19 november 2012. on 4 july 2012 the applicant company lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, urging it to revoke the part of the government resolution where it had been decided that the buildings at 21 miško street (the location of the applicant company’s buildings) would be demolished and to order the authorities to amend the management plan. on 28 november 2012 the supreme administrative court upheld the decision of the vilnius regional administrative court of 23 july 2012. the court indicated that a legal act could consist of textual and graphic information (tables, drawings, schemes, plans, symbols, emblems). the applicant company had indicated major repair work. on 30 december 2013 the applicant company asked the authority in charge of the curonian spit national park to issue planning permission to carry out major repair work in order to renovate the buildings. however, when using them the applicant company had to follow the legal regulations, which established that construction in the area in question was not allowed and that it was attempting to protect its rights in the wrong way. on 15 april 2015 the government adopted resolution no. it also indicated that the reply could be appealed against to the supreme administrative disputes commission (“the commission”) or to the vilnius regional administrative court in one month from its reception. the applicant company stated that it had paid eur 41,887 in land tax and eur 22,795 in property tax between 2000 and 2014. the applicant company appealed against that decision, claiming that it had been formal and lacked reasoning, and that the commission had ignored the fact that the protected areas service’s reply of 20 june 2016 had indicated that it was amenable to appeal before the administrative courts or the commission (see paragraph 40 above). it held that the applicant company had been represented by professional lawyers and the mere fact that the protected areas service had erroneously indicated that its decisions were amenable to appeal did not discharge the applicant company of the obligation to follow the appeal procedure as laid down in domestic law (see paragraph 50 below).
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in moscow. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. on 11 june 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow held a hearing on the investigating authorities’ request to detain the applicant pending the completion of the criminal investigation. on the same day the district court granted an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 6 november 2012. the applicant argued that his detention was detrimental to his health, in particular his eyesight. on 26 november 2012 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 29 october 2012. the moscow city court upheld the extension order on 2 july 2013. from 23 june 2012 to 17 september 2012 and from 4 november 2012 to 29 june 2013 the applicant was held in remand prison iz-77/5 in moscow. there was therefore a constant lack of fresh air in the cell, which the ventilation system could not compensate for. they provided measurement tables for the remand prison, which had been created in august 2013. on 23 november 2012 the applicant was taken for another outpatient consultation with an ophthalmologist, who concluded that there were no negative developments in his state of health. the doctor also recommended that he have eye tests once a year. on 29 march and 19 april 2013 the public commission for the monitoring of detention facilities visited iz-77/5, and the applicant complained to them about the poor quality of his mattress and the deterioration of his eyesight. the window measured 1.75 by 0.5 metres and was too high to give sufficient light for reading or working on documents. a shower was allowed once a week and the toilet was only separated from the rest of the cell by a low wall. on 16 october 2012 the applicant was examined by a commission of four doctors, including an ophthalmologist. they issued a report which, in so far as relevant, read as follows:
“... according to the [the applicant’s] medical documents, dated from 1997 to 2004, [he had been diagnosed with] medium myopia, complex myopic astigmatism, a congenital coloboma of the choroid, and a vascular congenital coloboma of the iris. the medical wing of the remand prison has no ophthalmologist and he was taken for a consultation to the [city hospital] ... according to the chief physician of the medical wing ... [the applicant] had 10% sight in one eye and 20% sight in the other. the head of the prison’s medical wing concluded that they did not reveal the presence of any of the serious conditions which were listed as being incompatible with custody and there were thus no obstacles to the applicant’s detention. the cells had the following characteristics: 58.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lived in sarajevo. by its decision of 3 august 2004, and at the recommendation of the sarajevo psychiatric clinic (the “psychiatric clinic”), the sarajevo municipal court instituted proceedings for the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric facility. on 18 august 2004, the sarajevo municipal court decided to keep the applicant in the psychiatric clinic for a maximum of 45 days (counting from the date of his placement, that is 1 august 2004). on 22 september 2004 the sarajevo canton social care centre (the “social care centre”) placed the applicant in the drin social care home (the “drin home”). on 7 january 2005, the sarajevo municipal court deprived the applicant of his legal capacity. on 10 march 2005 the social care centre placed the applicant under the guardianship of d.m., several other employees were subsequently appointed as the applicant’s successive guardians. by its decisions of 25 february 2010 and 25 december 2014, the social care centre decided that the applicant should remain in the drin home. on 16 september 2015 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”) held that the applicant’s deprivation of liberty had not been “in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law” within the meaning of article 5 § 1 of the convention as he had been held in psychiatric detention without a decision of a competent civil court. it also found that article 5 § 4 of the convention had been breached because of the lack of judicial review of the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention. the constitutional court ordered the social care centre to take measures to ensure respect for the applicant’s rights under article 5 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention. on 7 december 2015, the sarajevo municipal court restored the applicant’s legal capacity. the applicant was released from the drin home on 14 december 2015. at the applicant’s request, the social care centre again admitted him to the drin home, between 1 january 2016 and 31 march 2016. the applicant requested an extension of his stay in social care, which request was granted on 1 april 2016. the applicant was thus placed in the social and health care home for persons with disabilities and other persons (the “social and health care home”). the applicant died on 26 september 2016, while in the social and health care home.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in st petersburg. according to the applicant, in 1994 she moved in with her partner, n., who lived in a flat in st petersburg of which he was the sole owner. the applicant alleged that on 7 april 1998 her partner had borrowed 18,000 united states dollars from her for a period of two years. he had undertaken to give her his flat if he failed to repay her. in 1998 the applicant was registered as living in that flat and lived there with n. for the following fifteen years. on 4 march 2015 a judge of the city court refused to refer a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant to the court of cassation. in 2015 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg (“the district administration”) brought court proceedings against the applicant, seeking her eviction from the flat. the administration claimed that the flat was an heirless estate and therefore the property rights to it had to be transferred to the administration. the applicant contested those claims on the following grounds:
 -  she and n. had been living in the flat since 1994 as husband and wife;
 -  she had shared a common household with n.;
 -  n. had let her live in the flat as his family member;
 -  she had been paying the charges for the flat;
 -  she had no other housing. on 23 november 2015 the district court refused to evict the applicant from the flat. the court found, with reference to article 31 of the housing code, that n. had let the applicant live in the flat as a family member, and until his death had shared a common household with her. who had let the defendant live in [the flat], died on 9 may 2013. ...
taking into account that none of the heirs of mr nikolayev a.a. the applicant] had been allowed to live in the flat by the former owner. taking into account that there are no legal grounds which would allow mrs valdgardt to continue living in the flat and also because the defendant had not vacated the flat voluntarily, the claims of the administration of the primorskiy district to evict the defendant from the residential premises should be granted ...” 18. she submitted, in particular, that the city court had not taken into account that she was in need of housing and had been put on a municipal housing list. on 15 july 2016 a judge of the city court refused to refer the applicant’s appeal to the cassation court. the applicant lodged a cassation appeal with the civil chamber of the supreme court of the russian federation. on 15 may 2017 the bailiffs instituted enforcement proceedings. on an unspecified date the bailiffs service informed the applicant that if the writ of execution was not enforced by 8.30 a.m. on 26 july 2017, a forced eviction would be carried out at 9 a.m. on 26 july 2017 with the assistance of the police and bailiffs.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in belebey, republic of bashkortostan. in october 2007 the applicant and his family moved from uzbekistan to russia, apparently for the purpose of obtaining russian nationality as well as seeking medical treatment for the applicant’s drug addiction. in december 2007 the uzbek authorities charged the applicant with large-scale drug-trafficking committed in october 2007 and issued a detention order and an international search warrant. on 12 july 2008 the applicant was arrested in moscow and on 14 july 2008 the dragomilovskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, without setting any time-limit. on 9 december 2008 the russian prosecutor general’s office ordered the applicant’s extradition. on 28 january 2009 the moscow city court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s arrest and detention, and upheld the extradition. in the meantime, on 4 march 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 28 january 2009. on 10 august 2009 the applicant issued an authority form to lawyers to lodge an application with the court on his behalf. on 21 august 2009 the extradition order was enforced and the applicant was transferred to uzbekistan. on 28 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyers – who were apparently unaware of the extradition − requested an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court in order to stay the removal. on 1 september 2009 the court indicated the relevant measure to the russian government. however, after the russian government had informed the court about the extradition on 21 august 2009, the interim measure was lifted on 7 october 2009. the parties submitted no information on related events in uzbekistan. on an unspecified date the applicant joined his family in russia.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in khorly. on 8 may 2007 he signed a permit allowing a businessman, ya., on the same day he was given audio and video-recording equipment and marked banknotes. went to the bus stop and gave money to v., who was standing there. on 17 may 2007 the komsomolskiy district court (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s custody until 24 may 2007. the court held that there was no information about the applicant’s previous convictions, if any, or his family situation, state of health and so on; therefore the court “could not authorise a preventive measure, such as pre-trial detention”. his lawyer indicated that, when requesting that the applicant be remanded in custody, the prosecutor’s office had failed to comply with the court decision of 17 may 2007 (see paragraph 12 above), and had submitted only documents referring to the absence of previous convictions and the applicant’s satisfactory state of health. the court noted that the case file contained material confirming the applicant’s wish “to go to russia to his brother”. on 16 january 2008 the district court again remanded the applicant in pre-trial detention at the prosecutor’s request. however, the court believes that [the applicant], acting through unidentified individuals, has taken steps aimed at obstructing the truth from being established in the case in the course of the court’s consideration of his case. thus, according to statements of 28 december 2007 made by the victim, ya., and i., a witness, unknown individuals acting on [the applicant’s] behalf, have put psychological pressure on them, trying to prevent their appearing at the hearing of 29 december 2007. the victim, the court believes that the prosecutor’s application is well-founded and should be granted in order to prevent further possible pressure [being put] on the witnesses and the victim, and thus to eliminate obstacles to establishing the truth in the case ...
given what has been stated above, ... the court rules to change the preventive measure in respect of [the applicant] ... ” 18. on 23 january 2008 the kherson regional court of appeal refused the applicant leave to appeal against the decision of 16 january 2008 remanding him in pre-trial detention (see paragraph 17 above), since that decision was not open to appeal. on 29 february 2008 the district court released the applicant on bail. however, by 29 february 2008 no further investigation of this allegation had been carried out by the police, so it was decided that the applicant should be released. on 24 june 2008 the kherson regional court of appeal upheld the district court’s judgment. there were five basins and three taps for 300 detainees. there was no electricity or light at night. the food was of a very low quality and the water was undrinkable.
is a romanian company whose registered office is in timişoara. on 12 december 2008 the timişoara finance inspectorate (hereinafter, “the t.f.i.”) instituted enforcement proceedings against the applicant company on the grounds that it had an outstanding tax liability for the year 2008 amounting to 237,128 romanian lei (ron). the applicant company, represented by its appointed lawyer, mr. p. sălăjan, challenged before the timişoara district court the t.f.i. ’s decision to open enforcement proceedings. it claimed that it had no outstanding fiscal debts and submitted documentary evidence in this respect. at the first hearing in the proceedings the t.f.i. acknowledged that the applicant company had no outstanding tax liability and that the enforcement proceedings had been instituted in error. ’s decision to open enforcement proceedings and ordered the t.f.i. had started enforcement proceedings against the applicant company for a non-existent debt and that the latter had accordingly had to hire a lawyer and pay the trial fees in order to defend itself. the court also noted that the applicant company had submitted evidence to support its request for the reimbursement of the expenses it had incurred. lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 16 february 2009. it claimed that the first-instance court had not observed the principle of adversarial proceedings and of equality of arms, as it had not had the opportunity to challenge the amount paid by the applicant company in lawyer’s fees, which in its opinion were too high. by a final judgment of 12 august 2009 the timiş county court dismissed the appeal as unfounded. while holding that the lawyer’s fees corresponded to his input in the case, the court reiterated that the judge was entitled to increase or to reduce a lawyer’s fees, according the specific criteria set out by article 274 of the ccp (see paragraph 15 below). referred in particular to the fact that before the timişoara district court they were not given the possibility to bring their arguments concerning the amount requested by the applicant company and then awarded in legal costs and expenses by the first-instance court. in a final judgment of 19 february 2010 the timiş county court, sitting in a different formation from that of 12 august 2009, allowed the request: it set aside the judgment of 12 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and allowed the appeal lodged by the t.f.i. against the judgment of 16 february 2009 (see paragraph 8 above), which it partly amended. 146/1997 on stamp duty, as a consequence of the fact that the challenge to the enforcement had been allowed.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in mírov prison. 7332/10, 42666/10 and 61523/10, and the decision of the supreme court of 4 june 2013, no. of the supreme court’s opinion of 13 april 2011, no. however, in its judgment of 14 november 2011, no. in the meantime, the applicant initiated proceedings for compensation (no. on 27 november 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which is apparently still under consideration. on 29 september 2014 the supreme court dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant. 23 c 163/2012) and one for compensation for the excessive length of that second set of compensation proceedings (no. on 5 march 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed a cassation complaint by the applicant. as the ministry did not deal with the applicant’s request within the statutory time-limit, he brought a civil action before the prague 2 district court on 10 april 2008, seeking eur 3,487.77 in compensation. however, it found that the finding of a violation would provide adequate redress, given the lack of importance of what was at stake for the applicant and the fact that he must have known the result of the proceedings as soon as the supreme administrative court had issued its first judgment. on 10 may 2007 the municipal court dismissed the latter part of the action, finding that the ministry had not been obliged to deal with the applicant’s complaint in administrative proceedings. on 30 october 2007 the applicant claimed compensation under the state liability act from the ministry of justice for non-pecuniary damage arising from the excessive length of the main proceedings (no. on 11 may 2009 the district court dismissed the action, finding that the main proceedings had not been unreasonably long. on 19 january 2011 the municipal court upheld the judgment. following an appeal by the applicant, on 5 august 2009 the prague municipal court quashed the judgment and remitted the case to the district court, finding an erroneous assessment of the statutory limitation period. on 27 october 2010 the municipal court upheld the judgment, although with different reasoning. on 10 may 2012 the ministry rejected the applicant’s claim, finding no delays in the main proceedings and considering their overall length as reasonable. apparently, those proceedings are still ongoing. it considered that the main proceedings had been unreasonably long, taking into consideration that they had concerned the applicant’s personality rights.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in slavonski brod. while the applicant held the position of head of administration for all kindergartens in slavonski brod, z.b. sought and obtained employment in one of the kindergartens in slavonski brod as a teacher. presented a certificate confirming such citizenship. as an employee of a kindergarten in slavonski brod, was a subordinate of the applicant. on 23 october 2008 the applicant held a press conference entitled “all victims of the human resources policy of the mayor of slavonski brod, m.d.”, had denied a croatian war veteran’s daughter employment (see paragraph 11 below). during the proceedings the applicant contended that she had wanted to show all irregularities concerning the mayor’s employment of local civil servants, and that she had learnt that z.b. had requested croatian citizenship only after she had been employed as manager of the kindergarten. the applicant also submitted that a councillor in the local assembly had provided her with certain documents concerning z.b., including an annulled citizenship certificate. on 21 may 2010 the slavonski brod municipal court acquitted the applicant on the grounds that the material obtained during the proceedings showed that z.b. had been registered in 1985 in the register of births of bosnia and herzegovina, which at the time had been one of the former yugoslav republics. after a retrial, on 26 january 2012 the slavonski brod municipal court found the applicant guilty of defamation for having said “[the mayor] appointed people who are using invalid documents to crucial positions, for example z.b., the applicant was given a suspended sentence of sixty days’ imprisonment with a probation period of one year. had acquired croatian citizenship in 1992, but her citizenship certificate had later been annulled in 2008 due to some administrative irregularities, and later she had been issued with a new certificate. the applicant was also ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings in the amount of 8,250 croatian kunas (hrk). the applicant appealed, and on 30 may 2012 the slavonski brod county court dismissed her appeal, upholding the first-instance judgment. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining, inter alia, that her freedom of expression had been violated by the judgments of the lower courts. on 26 september 2012 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicants were born in 1947 and 1971 and live in skopje. the first applicant is the father of the second applicant. the second applicant was arrested on the next day. the son of the first applicant and brother of the second applicant. the judge further held that special circumstances (особени околности) suggested that if released, the suspects might interfere with the investigation by influencing prosecution witnesses who were to be examined by the investigating judge. the fact that some of the suspects (but not the applicants) had decided to remain silent was considered by the panel as a factor that heightened the risk of interference with the investigation. on 26 january 2011 the applicants lodged appeals complaining that the three-judge panel had not given concrete reasons to justify their pre-trial detention. the applicants also submitted that they did not have a previous criminal record; they had not resisted arrest and had behaved in an exemplary manner during their detention. both of them had families and possessions in the respondent state. the second applicant was a mother of three minor children. as representatives of certain companies – was yet to be secured. and r.c [other accused] is taken into consideration given that they remain unavailable to the law-enforcement authorities ...
in the assessment of the risk of reoffending as a ground warranting further extension of the pre-trial detention, the panel took into account the nature and type of the offences with which the accused were charged ... and the fact that the defendants are accused of acting as a well-organised group, consisting of organisers and members, with assigned roles in the business structures of several companies, that acted over a prolonged period of time. with regard to the risk of reoffending, the court of appeal took note of the fact that the defendants were accused of acting as an organised group over a prolonged period of time, with pre-defined roles, using the established business structure of companies in the respondent state and abroad. on 21 april 2011 a three-judge panel of the trial court ordered another thirty-day extension of the pre-trial detention of the applicants and other accused on the grounds that they might abscond and reoffend. it also removed the risk of reoffending from the list of grounds justifying the second applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 14 march 2012 the trial court convicted the applicants as charged. the applicants have started to serve their prison sentences. in their observations the government informed the court about an article published on 19 november 2014 on an internet portal called prizma-balkan investigative reporting network (birn) entitled “the government offered settlement – ramkovski declined, he will wait for strasbourg” (“владата понудила спогодба – рамковски ја одбил, ќе го чека стразбур”). it included a link to the statement of facts and the court’s questions sent to the parties. however it was not acceptable to ramkovski.
he was subsequently convicted of criminal offences on several occasions. on 7 may 2015 the georgian authorities informed the russian migration authority that the applicant was not a georgian national and that they would not assist in his return to georgia. on 26 january 2016 the saint petersburg city court upheld the judgment of 15 december 2015. the applicant sought a review of the decisions of 15 december 2015 and 26 january 2016. in the meantime, on 1 august 2016, referring to article 5 § 4 of the convention, the applicant lodged an application for release and again sought termination of the enforcement proceedings. on 5 june 2017 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an application with the kirovskiy district court of saint petersburg in order to obtain the applicant’s release, referring to the above-mentioned constitutional ruling. from the start date to mid-february 2016 he was kept in cell no. 404 and from mid-february to 3 august 2016 he was in cell no. the cells were equipped with bedside boards and beds but there were no chairs, tables or other furniture. on 3 august 2016 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 304, measuring eight square metres, where he was kept alone. the toilets in the cells were separated from the main area by a fixed partition. there was no proper, ceramic toilet bowl, just a “hole” with a flusher set on a small base so the toilet had to be used in a squatting position. shower facilities were accessible for ten minutes every fourth day in 2016 and once every seven to ten days from early 2017. subsequently, the applicant also stated that the cells became infested with bugs, cockroaches and mice, although it was not clear to what period of time he referred to. he submitted a photograph showing two captured mice in containers. they also noted that the detention centre had no courtyard for detainees. 403, which measured 27.4 square metres (not eighteen as submitted by the applicant). the detention centre had a library and detainees could borrow books. hot food was brought in special containers.
the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables. on the dates indicated in the appended tables the applicants obtained monetary court awards against the municipal unitary enterprise passenger transport company of kotlas (mup kotlas passazhirskoye avtotransportnoye predpriyatiye – муниципальное предприятие муниципального образования котлас «пассажирское автотранспортное предприятие»). some of the judgments in the applicants’ favour have been partly enforced during the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company (see paragraphs 7-10 below), while others remained unenforced to date. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. it was set up by the municipality of kotlas. the company provided transport services in the town. it had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it. as submitted by the applicants, the prices for the transport services in the town of kotlas were regulated by the administration of arkhangelsk region. on 28 september 2007 insolvency proceedings started in respect of the company. on 18 september 2012 the company was declared insolvent and subsequently liquidated.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in pogradec. his requests to be taken to a hospital to receive medical treatment had gone unanswered. and dated 6 august 2012 stated that rrf forces had been informed of a violent physical dispute in one of the main streets of pogradec at around 7.40 p.m. as a result, they had intervened and taken three people to the local police station. who was a judicial police officer working for the minister of the interior’s internal control service in pogradec (shërbimi i kontrollit të brendshëm, hereinafter “the ics”), and informed him of his intention to lodge a criminal complaint against the rrf officers who had allegedly beaten him on the shoulder, leg and head with a rubber truncheon. consequently, he had sustained an open wound to his head. had made a telephone call to the applicant for help. after some moments the applicant had appeared at the scene. after the rrf officers had intervened, the applicant and n.p. his report described the events as mentioned in the statement made by the applicant on 7 august 2012 (see paragraph 12 above) and the statement made by a.s. the applicant had submitted a forensic medical report (no. the judicial police officer, in support of the criminal complaint. on 10 september 2012 the district prosecutor requested that video footage be provided by a nearby bank whose security cameras were believed to have registered images of the events of 6 august 2012. on 17 september 2012 the pogradec police station responded that the rrf team had been led by v.b., on 7 november 2012 a judicial police officer inspected an order for the deployment of rrf forces (urdhër për daljen me shërbim). gave another statement and stated that he had been hit on his back by the applicant. had been taken to hospital for treatment. on 5 march 2013 the fmi informed the prosecutor’s office that they had been unable to identify the object that had caused the applicant’s injuries. all the people were having a fight [by the time] an rrf police car arrived. as regards the criminal complaint that physical violence was used by the rrf officers when petri was taken to the police station, i consider that doubts arise as to whether the offence of abuse of power as provided for by article 248 of the cc has been committed. he responded that he was unable to proceed with the identification [procedure] because the blows had come from behind and he was unable to identify the officer who had struck the blows.
the applicants were born in 1954, 1952, 1964, 1926, 1952, 1960 and 1956 respectively and live in donetsk. from the beginning of april 2014 armed groups started to seize official buildings in the donetsk and luhansk regions and announced the creation of self-proclaimed entities known as the “donetsk people’s republic” and “luhansk people’s republic” (the “dpr” and “lpr”). in response, on 14 april 2014 the government, who consider the armed groups to be terrorist organisations, authorised the use of force against them in the legal form of an “anti-terrorist operation”. in june 2014 the armed groups started to seize offices of the national bank of ukraine and other regional financial institutions in the donetsk and luhansk regions. on 24 july 2014 the ukrainian postal service ukrposhta suspended its operations on the territories of the donetsk and luhansk regions that were outside the control of the government, because of frequent attacks on its vehicles and employees by armed groups. on 6 august 2014 the national bank of ukraine suspended all financial transactions on the territories outside the control of the government (see paragraph 20 below). government forces recaptured some territories in the donetsk and luhansk regions, but certain parts of the regions have remained outside the government’s control since that time. one part of the donetsk region not under the government’s control is the city of donetsk. on 2 september 2014, following changes in the law, jurisdiction of the courts in the non-controlled areas was transferred to the relevant courts in the neighbouring regions on the territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 34 to 36 below). on 11 november 2014 all social benefit payments in the settlements of the donetsk and luhansk regions that were outside the control of the government were suspended (see paragraph 26 below) 14. in december 2014 the donetsk regional administrative court and the donetsk regional administrative court of appeal were relocated to the cities of sloviansk and kramatorsk, territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 37 and 38 below). the applicants were registered as recipients of social benefits with different departments of the pension fund of ukraine in donetsk. some applicants had been receiving their social benefits until 30 june 2014, others until 31 august 2014. on 16 june 2015 the first and second applicants registered themselves with the labour and social security department of the krasnoarmiysk district of the donetsk region (currently the city of pokrovsk), controlled by the government. on the same day their social benefits was reinstated, including social benefits due to them for the period 1 july 2014 to 16 june 2015. the sixth applicant was registered with the labour and social security department of the obolonskiy district in kyiv on 9 september 2015. however, she did not apply for reinstatement of her social benefits. the other applicants did not apply to the relevant social authorities on the territory controlled by the government for reinstatement of their social benefits. according to the government, the sixth and seventh applicants travelled from donetsk to the territory controlled by the government after their social benefits had been suspended. the government provided a certificate from the state customs office stating that the sixth and seventh applicants had entered the territory controlled by the government on 31 october 2015, through an authorised checkpoint near the frontline between ukrainian forces and “dpr” armed groups in the town of zaitseve.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in kiev, ukraine. in his comments on the third-party submissions before the court, the applicant added that at the time he had been “involved with” the independent media centre (indymedia); prior to the g8 summit, he had taken leave from his television assignments and had “focused on media work” in the framework of linc. according to the applicant, at 8.30 a.m. on 16 july 2006 he happened to “be around” when a so-called “anti-globalism” march was taking place in nevskiy avenue in st petersburg (see also paragraphs 19 and 20 below). he was not wearing any distinctive clothing or insignia to designate him as a journalist. one of the police officers spotted him taking pictures and ordered him to switch off the camera. according to the applicant, he complied and no further order was given to him; he did not show any resistance to the police. despite several warnings, he refused, grabbed their uniforms, behaved defiantly and shouted. he was then taken to the police vehicle by force. according to the record, the applicant was not subjected to the procedure involving a personal search or an examination of his belongings. apparently, the applicant managed to contact a lawyer. at around that time, the applicant was allowed access to the administrative-offence record. he was accused of disobeying two orders from the police: (i) to cease his participation in the non-authorised demonstration; and (ii) to get, “voluntarily”, into the police vehicle, as stated in the judgment of the justice of the peace. the applicant stated before the court that while having a walk with his friend, ms k., he had seen people running along nevskiy avenue with banners and posters; he had followed them to take some photographs. his efforts to have it admitted to the file, however, were unsuccessful. on the same evening, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant under article 19.3 of the cao and sentenced him to three days of detention, to be counted from 10 a.m. on the same day. if i did so unknowingly, i am sorry about that. on the same day i was sentenced to three days’ detention. i ask the appeal court, when examining my appeal, to grant it as regards my release. on 18 july 2006 the applicant was visited by an official from the ukrainian consulate and signed a document authorising the consul to represent him on appeal. the applicant sought a supervisory review of the judgments before the city court.
on 28 february 1996 the applicants and the debtor (jsp “tara” cetinje) reached a court approved settlement before the cetinje municipal court, whereby the debtor undertook to pay the applicants specified amounts in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage. the settlement became final on the same date. the debtor ultimately paid part of the amounts determined in the settlement. on 26 may 1997 the podgorica commercial court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor. on 19 august 1997 the applicants submitted their respective claims based on the settlement. in the course of the insolvency proceedings the podgorica commercial court acknowledged the applicants’ claims. on 23 december 2009 the podgorica commercial court terminated (zaključio) the insolvency proceedings against the debtor, but continued the proceedings against the debtor’s estate. this decision was upheld by the appellate court on 9 april 2010. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ constitutional appeal on procedural grounds. the court settlement in question remains partly unenforced to the present day. it transpires from the case file that at the time the court settlement was concluded and became final (see paragraphs 4 and 5 above) the debtor was a company predominantly comprised of state‑controlled capital. the government neither contested this nor provided any evidence to the contrary.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in tver. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 may 2009 the applicant and his classmate a. were arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily injuries to a boy from their school. the applicant was initially released under parental supervision, whilst a. was remanded in custody. the following day they retracted their confessions. on 16 november 2009, after the investigator had reclassified their actions as a more serious offence, the zavolzhskiy district court in tver ordered the applicant’s placement in custody, citing the gravity of the charges and the fact that he had recanted. the district court interpreted the latter element as amounting to the risk of an obstruction of justice. in the court’s opinion, that implied that the applicant might interfere with justice if released. the district court also added that the custodial measure was necessary “to secure the enforcement of the conviction”. on 3 february 2010 the regional court upheld the district court’s assessment on appeal, in particular its finding that a non-custodial measure would not be sufficient to secure the enforcement of the conviction. however, the investigation considers that mr v. smirnov is using all means to interfere with the criminal proceedings because of his vested interests; he has not responded when summonsed by the investigator or court, and is causing all kinds of delays in the proceedings. the investigation considers that this kind of conduct on the part of mr v. smirnov may have a negative influence of the defendant mr a. smirnov, as well as interfering with the establishment of the truth in the criminal case.” on 25 january 2010 the supervising prosecutor rejected a complaint from the applicant’s father about the investigator’s decision, recalling that the granting of leave to visit a detainee was at the investigator’s discretion rather than being a legal obligation and that the arguments for refusing leave were “persuasive and well-justified”. on 3 february 2010 the district court issued a further extension order, holding that the applicant had been charged with a particularly serious offence and that the circumstances warranting the application of a custodial measure still obtained. on 19 february 2010 the regional court upheld the order on appeal. the final extension order of 11 march 2010 referred to the gravity of the charges against both co-defendants, without distinguishing between their individual situations. by a judgment of 25 march 2010, the regional court found the applicant and his co-defendant guilty of attempted murder and sentenced each of them to five years’ imprisonment. on 9 june 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction. between november 2009 and july 2010 the applicant’s parents visited him in prison a total of sixteen times. all visits were carried out under the supervision of a warden while the applicant was separated from his parents by a glass partition.
the applicants were born in 1987 and 1986 and live in gümüşhane and erzincan respectively. on 18 may 2007 the applicants participated in reading out a press statement in commemoration of i̇brahim kaypakkaya, the leader of the tkp/ml[1] (turkish communist party – marxist/leninist), who had died in 1973, allegedly under torture in police custody. on 7 january 2008 the erzurum public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against fifteen people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. according to the indictment, during the gathering, the second applicant had read out a press declaration containing statements praising the tkp/ml and i̇brahim kaypakkaya, and the following slogans had been chanted by the demonstrators: “i̇brahim is our leader”, “our struggle continues and shall continue”, “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal”, “down with the usa” and “we will drown fascism in the blood it has shed”. the group had also carried a banner which read “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal – partizan”[2]. on 31 march 2009 the erzurum assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to ten months’ imprisonment pursuant to section 7(2) of law no. in its judgment, the assize court held that the applicants had disseminated propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, given that the second applicant had read out the press statement and the first applicant had chanted slogans. the court based its judgment on a report prepared by an expert regarding a police video-recording of the public gathering in question. taking into account the applicants’ good behaviour during the trial and the fact that they had no previous criminal convictions, the court suspended pronouncement of the applicants’ conviction on the condition that they did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması). the applicants filed an objection against the decision of 31 march 2009. in their petition, they stated that the first-instance court had erred in interpreting the facts and the law, and they asked to be acquitted of the charges against them. they further stated that their prosecution had constituted a breach of article 10 of the convention. on 20 july 2009 the diyarbakır assize court held that the application of article 231 of the code of criminal procedure in the case was in line with the domestic law, and rejected the applicants’ objection without examining the merits of the case. that decision was served on the applicants on 5 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in krasnodar. according to the applicant’s submissions, he also prepared various texts for publication in print and internet media outlets on an occasional basis. on 27 august 2009 they returned to russia, arriving on foot at the adler customs checkpoint. the laptop was his own property, however, he also used it for professional purposes. the applicant and d. were examined by officer k. in his report to his superior, drawn up at 10.40 a.m. on 27 august 2009, he stated that in view of the applicant’s answers to questions and because of his behaviour, neither of which have been specified to the court, there was a need to verify the information contained in the applicant’s customs declaration by way of an “inspection procedure” (see paragraph 31 below) in respect of the items in his bag and backpack and to “apply the measure for minimising risk as per profile no. which required sampling and which also indicated ‘other’, i copied data from [the applicant’s] laptop to six dvd rw disks ... because we had no other type of disks or electronic storage devices ... since the laptop’s hard drive was some 160 gb and at the time we had no means for fast copying, i decided only to copy folders with strange names. i did not read any ‘correspondence’ (personal correspondence or other text material) from the laptop.” the folder contained seven subfolders and 180 files. the article, written by ms v., was published in the russian reporter magazine in june 2009 and was accompanied by photographs taken by the applicant. according to the government, the information was then deleted from the external hard drive. the original data in the laptop was not deleted and remained intact. in december 2009 a report was sought from another expert organisation. apparently, it concluded that the data contained no extremist material. according to the applicant, the dvds with his data were handed over to him in november 2011. this includes laptops, memory flash cards, photo-cameras, video-cameras, printed material and the like. article 14 of the code provides that all such goods should be subject to customs clearance and customs control. article 358 of the code provides that customs checks are based on the principle of selectiveness and, as a rule, should be limited to such forms of control as are sufficient for ensuring compliance with customs legislation ... when selecting the form of control, the risk management approach is applied, which is based on the effective use of resources for preventing violations of the legislation ... risk is defined as a probability of non-compliance with customs legislation. when carrying out a customs check, the customs authority is allowed to take samples of goods which are needed for further assessment. when carrying out a customs check, the authority is allowed to use technical means to limit the time of such checks; the list and procedures for their use are defined in article 388 of the code and in customs authority order no. thus when the samples were taken, it was necessary to take the full amount of information from the device ...
in addition, it is noted that under article 10 of the customs code, information received by customs officials may be used exclusively for the purposes of customs legislation ...
customs officials are not authorised to disclose that information or transfer it to third persons, except as set down in the code or other legislation ...” 24.
since 2002, following their ancestors’ demise, the applicants have been the holders of the utile dominium (by way of sub-emphyteusis which expires in 2047) of a portion of land in zabbar, malta. the directum dominus (direct owner) is the state. on the said property there was a shop which was rented out to third parties as a snack bar. m. (including the shop of an area of approximately 50 sq. specifically it was decided to reposition the road which had to be built on the part of the land on which the shop had stood. thus, it was decided that on that plot of land which adjoined another larger plot of land (not owned by the applicants), a new shop would be built at the government’s expense in order to serve the square and the civic centre, as well as government offices and for use as a bus terminus. the remaining small area of land, belonging to the applicants’ ancestors, which had been taken but not used, was returned to them in 1988. pending the constitutional-redress proceedings (below), on 13 april 2010 the commissioner of land (hereinafter “the commissioner”) extended the lease in favour of the third party until 31 january 2020, at a rent of approximately 2,100 euros (eur) per year. in the light of article 9 of the ordinance and act i of 2006, on 6 october 2010, by a president’s declaration of 3 september 2010, the sum offered for the taking of 7 may 1965 was eur 13,000 in accordance with an architect’s valuation dated 1 january 2005. in 2010 the bus terminus was moved as a result of changes in the transport system. on 2 march 2010 the applicants instituted constitutional redress proceedings. pursuant to the ordinance as amended, it was still for the commissioner to make an offer. it was open, however, for the receivers of the offer, if they disagreed, to institute proceedings to challenge the offer before the lab. the same applied concerning their complaint of a lack of public interest despite amendments to the law in 2009 (act xxv of 2009) ‑ which had introduced the possibility of challenging the public interest of an expropriation before the lab, within twenty-one days of the declaration – in the court’s view it was unlikely that an individual would be able to challenge a public interest which had not been mentioned in the declaration. it had solely and intrinsically served private interests, specifically those of the third parties who had been leasing the property merely for commercial purposes, irrespective of the fact that the snack bar had been regularly used by bus drivers. the court annulled the governor’s declaration of 7 may 1965 and the president’s declaration of 6 october 2010 as well as any other action, affecting the property, taken by the defendant pending the proceedings. the defendants appealed, arguing that there was a public interest and challenging the award of compensation and the return order. thus, without prejudice to any such claim for pecuniary compensation in respect of the property taken and the relative interest, the constitutional court awarded eur 10,000 in non‑pecuniary damages for the violation suffered, bearing in mind that the value of the property was eur 13,000, and it annulled the return order for the property. as the applicants refused to collect the award made by the constitutional court, in january 2014 the commissioner deposited the award in court by means of a schedule of deposit. on 3 september 2015 the government sent the applicants a letter reminding them to send evidence concerning their title in connection with the president’s declaration of 6 october 2010.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in gebze. the police initiated an investigation into the matter to find the perpetrators. following the search, he went through a medical examination. the report drawn up after that examination noted that he did not have any complaints and that there were no signs of injury on his body. on 21 august 2002 at 1.30 p.m. another report was issued in respect of the applicant, indicating that there were no traces of ill-treatment on him. the applicant and the others were all released after their questioning. on 26 august 2002 the applicant turned eighteen years of age. on 20 september 2002 the applicant was questioned by the police once again. subsequently, the applicant, other members of his family and his friend a.s. the medical report concerning the applicant noted no signs of injury. he went on to describe in detail how he had disposed of the body and showed the police the pushcart he had used to that effect. he was subsequently placed in detention on remand. he requested that the appointed lawyer who had been present during his questioning by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge be heard as a witness. during the course of the thirteen hearings before it, the assize court obtained a report from the istanbul forensics institute and heard all the police officers involved in the applicant’s questioning. nevertheless, it re-examined and accepted the applicant’s request to have the appointed lawyer heard. in his statements before the court, that lawyer submitted that he had first seen the applicant during the interview at the public prosecutor’s office and had suspected that he might have been ill-treated as he had been nervous. the court also heard a number of other witnesses, including his friend a.s., and the bank transcripts which rebutted his defence with regard to the money he had spent after the murder. reiterating his submissions with regard to his alleged ill-treatment, he maintained that he had not been assigned a lawyer while in police custody although he had requested one. on 16 june 2005 the court of cassation quashed the judgment, finding that the applicant’s sentence needed to be re-evaluated in the light of the new penal code, which had entered into force following the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1961 and is currently detained in kremikovtsi prison hostel near sofia. in a final judgment of 23 february 2009, the applicant was convicted of murder and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment. on 6 april 2009 he entered sofia prison to serve his sentence. he did not say anything about the conditions of his detention there. on 21 august 2009 he was transferred to kremikovtsi prison hostel, a closed-type prison hostel. on 26 august 2009 the serving of his sentence of imprisonment was interrupted in order for him to take care of his elderly mother, who had undergone hip-replacement surgery in july 2009. the interruption came to an end on 26 october 2009, and the applicant was again placed in kremikovtsi prison hostel. according to him, the group was housed in several cabins with cement floors. they were damp and had many of their windows broken and doors shattered. there was no canteen or dedicated eating space, and no cutlery. on 28 october 2010 the applicant was transferred to group no. he was placed in a cell which he shared with three to four other inmates. according to the government, the applicant had to share a cell with two to three inmates. the cell was heated with electricity and there were no water supply restrictions. the door and the windows were in good condition. according to the applicant, material conditions in the cells in which he was placed after 28 october 2010 were significantly better in terms of heating, lighting and hygiene, and were satisfactory. kremikovtsi prison is a closed-type prison hostel attached to sofia prison. according to the same report in 2007 the health-care staff in kremikovtsi prison hostel consisted only of a dentist and a feldsher. according to information provided by the government to the council of europe’s committee of ministers, in december 2013 the official capacity of the prison hostel was 426, whereas the actual number of inmates housed there was 493 (see neshkov and others v. bulgaria, nos. 36925/10 and 5 others, § 143, 27 january 2015).
the first applicant was born in 1956 and lives in cetinje. the second applicant was founded in cetinje in 1990. the first applicant is the founder, the sole owner, and the executive director of the second applicant. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 1 july 2013 an insolvency creditor x (stečajni povjerilac) requested the commercial court (privredni sud) in podgorica to open insolvency proceedings (stečajni postupak) in respect of the second applicant. in the proceedings before the commercial court the second applicant was represented by the first applicant and a lawyer duly authorised by the latter. on 27 december 2013 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the second applicant and, inter alia, appointed an insolvency administrator (stečajni upravnik). on 23 january 2014 the second applicant, through the lawyer, lodged an appeal against the commercial court decision. on 18 march 2014 the court of appeals (apelacioni sud) in podgorica rejected the appeal (žalba se odbacuje) as having been submitted by an unauthorised person, given that the lawyer had not been appointed by the insolvency administrator. the court relied on sections 75 and 76 of the insolvency act (see paragraphs 17-18 below). this decision was served on the applicants on 17 april 2014. on 12 may 2014 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 13 may 2014 the applicants’ representative filed an initiative with the constitutional court (ustavni sud) seeking the assessment of the constitutionality of section 76 of the insolvency act in force at the time. there is nothing in the case-file as to the outcome of that initiative. on 23 july 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeal for “not having been lodged by a party to the domestic proceedings or by a person authorised to appeal on behalf of the person whose rights and freedoms were violated”. this decision was served on the applicants on 15 october 2014.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in moscow. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 24 november 2006 the applicant, the owner and ceo of a large dairy producer, was charged with large-scale fraud and money laundering and summoned for questioning. on 26 january 2007 the investigator, acting on the information that the applicant had fled abroad, asked the ostankinskiy district court in moscow for a detention order. the detention hearing was fixed for 1 february 2007. the district court appointed legal-aid counsel to represent the absent applicant, proceeded with the hearing and issued the detention order, referring to the fact of the applicant’s absconding to ukraine and from there to hungary, the gravity of the charges against him and the risk of interference with the investigation. on 9 february 2007 the applicant’s lawyers appealed. on 15 february 2007 the applicant was arrested in moscow. the applicant and his lawyers were present at the hearing. the applicant appealed against each of the detention orders, lodging statements of appeal within two to ten days of the hearing date. it took the appeal courts between twenty-six and sixty days to examine the complaints. the most recent detention order of 25 july 2008 was quashed on appeal by the supreme court on 2 october 2008. the investigation had been pending for over two years of which the applicant had spent more than a year and a half in custody. while in custody, the applicant asked the investigator to be allowed to receive visits from his mother, wife and children and also pastoral visits from two orthodox priests, a. and s. 15. with the investigator’s consent, the applicant’s mother and daughters visited him on two occasions in april and may 2007. as to the orthodox priests, on 29 march 2007 the investigator invoked the same ground to refuse a visit from s. on 30 august 2007 the investigator once again refused a pastoral visit, stating that the applicant should see the prison chaplain instead. counsel for the applicant applied for a judicial review of visiting restrictions. her application was referred to the investigator. on 24 january 2008 ms kostromina lodged a complaint with the preobrazhenskiy district court claiming that the prison director should have authorised her visit without any restrictions, on the basis of article 34 of the convention guaranteeing unhindered access of an applicant to his representative. on 6 may 2008 the moscow city court upheld that decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in moscow. on an unspecified date the applicant was diagnosed with schizotypal personality disorder and was undergoing voluntary treatment for his condition. during this period he has had mood swings, has been anxious, irritable, [and had] difficulties in focusing his attention. given these circumstances he was hospitalised in [a psychiatric facility]. after his discharge his condition improved. he became acquainted with a boy, a ninth grade student, during one of his walks in the city. he started meeting him, talking to him, tried to ‘have physical contact’, touched his hand, fondled it. indisposed to conversation, replies [only] after some pause, does not answer certain questions, asks for some questions to be repeated. while replying he gulps with an expression of pain. on the same day a medical counselling panel composed of the resident psychiatrists of the hospital examined the applicant and diagnosed him with organic delusional disorder. on the same day the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29(a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. on 5 may 2014 the savyolovskiy district court of moscow (савёловский районный суд г. in her opinion, in-patient treatment was necessary. i dyed my hair ginger because that colour suits me, i do not like black. i want to finish my studies]; i have only two months left and i do not want to be in hospital. on 18 july 2014 the appeal was dismissed by the moscow city court (московский городской суд). previously he had been hospitalised in [a psychiatric facility]; following his discharge from [that facility] his mental state improved, [and] he had continued his studies. [according to the medical evidence] on 25 april 2014 [the applicant] was lethargic, sluggish, and had a subdued mood, which he attributed to his inability to meet up with a boy he is attracted to. in this state he had been travelling long distances, presenting a danger to himself and others ...
the evidence [submitted to the first-instance court] substantiating the need for involuntary hospitalisation – including information on previous treatment for his delusional disorder and somatic condition (a second-degree disability) – constituted legal grounds for involuntary hospitalisation. the applicant’s subsequent attempts to initiate a review of the above-mentioned judicial decisions proved unsuccessful.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in galashki, ingushetia republic. they also threatened to kill s., should the applicant decide to leave him. the applicant had to live with s.’s family as his wife. the marriage was not officially registered. she was kept locked in a room without being able to communicate with people outside s.’s family. she did not feel well and complained about dizziness, numbing of the lower jaw and difficulty to breathe. according to the applicant’s mother, the applicant told her once that her mother-in-law did not let her see s. and claimed that the applicant would not last living with them longer than two months. the doctor diagnosed her with renal colic. on 29 december 2009 during another visit to hospital the applicant was diagnosed with poisoning by unknown substance. a general practitioner and a neuropathologist examined her. she was diagnosed with stress and overdose of sedatives and placed in an intensive care unit. she has not regained consciousness since then. on 23 september 2010 the applicant’s mother complained to the local police department and prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been forcefully held by s.’s family in inhuman conditions which led to deterioration of her health and coma. she also stated that the applicant had been repeatedly beaten up and deprived of her liberty. the expert, however, was unable to determine the cause of the applicant’s condition. on 24 november 2011 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against s.’s family. on 29 july 2012 the supervising prosecutor quashed the decision of 24 november 2011 and ordered further inquiry into the matter. on 3 august 2012 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings on the charges of attempted murder. the case-file materials submitted by the government contain two decisions dated 6 march 2015. the second decision was taken by the district deputy prosecutor who ordered a new inquiry.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kaišiadorys. obtain release on probation and promised to organise a meeting with him. asked the applicant what he should do in order to obtain release on probation. the applicant also stated that the cost for the same thing in the kaunas regional court would be approximately ltl 10,000 (approximately eur 2,896) but that that was not the final amount. a former police officer who promised to contact the authorities. and the applicant on 26 january 2011 showed that v.š. had around ltl 35,000 (approximately eur 10,137). the conversation went as follows:
“the applicant: ‘ ...you understand that the intermediary who will go will also need some, and..’
...
the applicant: ‘you know, salaries there are [ltl] 7,000, so you know...’
the applicant: ‘as with [d], when he brought, looked, he went there with those pennies, [they] said no, and he did not have any more...’ v.š.: ‘ did not tell anyone about the agreement and v.š. the prosecutor also asked the vilnius city second district court on the stt’s behalf to authorise covert surveillance of the applicant and l.d. was allowed to use various types of telecommunications and electronic network measures. because they could not talk on the telephone. again called the applicant later that day and asked whether he should bring the medical certificate to the meeting and the applicant said that he was already in the correctional facility. called the applicant the same day and asked how matters were proceeding with their client. on 19 october 2011 the vilnius city third district court approved an application by v.š. by a judgment of 18 july 2012 the kėdainiai district court found the applicant guilty of bribing an intermediary and sentenced him to sixty days in prison. reikėjo, tad nieko nereiškiančiais pokalbiais jis tik siekė parodyti, kad dirba, tačiau tuo jis nesiekė sukelti jokių pasekmių, kadangi negalėjo paveikti nei l.[d.], the court held that the transcripts of the conversations between the applicant and v.š. showed that the applicant had been the first to indicate the amounts of money to be paid. that allowed the court to draw the conclusion that the applicant realised that the money was remuneration for his criminal activity.
the applicant company is a limited liability company and is the owner of the greek television channel alpha. on 24 january 2002, alpha broadcast a television show named “jungle” (ζούγκλα) in which three videos that had been filmed with a hidden camera were broadcast. the second video showed a meeting between a.c. during which the first video was shown to a.c. on 23 may 2002 the national radio and television council (εθνικό συμβούλιο ραδιοτηλεόρασης), following an invitation to the applicant company, held a hearing in which the applicant company was represented by its attorneys. as can be seen from the minutes of the meeting, the applicant company’s attorneys acknowledged the use of hidden camera in the above-mentioned incidents. they argued that such use had been justified owing to a.c. they furthermore stressed that nobody would ever forbid journalists to report on a certain issue; however the means used raised an issue, as the use of hidden camera could be accepted only in respect of a national security issue or for the prevention of a serious crime or other similar situations. on 23 january 2006 the president of the supreme administrative court referred the case to the plenary supreme administrative court owing to its high importance. 42409/98, 21 february 2002; and sciacca v. italy, no. however, even when broadcasting of the news is considered a legitimate exercise of the right to impart information, this does not automatically render legitimate the broadcasting of the relevant, secretly recorded images, as that constitutes a much more intense [έντονος] limitation of the constitutionally protected right of that person to his own image than the simple transmission of news. in the domestic court’s view, broadcasting of a secretly recorded image can only be justified if the legitimate (for the reasons mentioned above) broadcasting of such news is completely impossible or particularly difficult without broadcasting the image that was recorded by hidden means and which constitutes the source of the news. as far as the broadcasting of the images was concerned, the applicant company had not disputed that the images had been recorded by secret means and had not claimed that broadcasting of the news was absolutely impossible or extremely difficult without broadcasting the relevant images. in addition, there were two dissenting opinions. therefore, the application for annulment should have been allowed, given that the national radio and television council’s decision had been based solely on the fact that the image of a.c. a person’s right to his own image was susceptible to limitations that varied according to that person’s position and the space in which the recording in question had taken place. in particular, public figures, such as politicians, were exposed to publicity and sometimes they even pursued it. as a result, there was a legitimate expectation on the part of the media and of the public to impart and receive information regarding their public activities. for these persons, there was an absolute protection of their image in their private space and in public spaces in which they shared private or family moments. when, however, public figures were in public spaces but not under the conditions described above, or acted in a way that was of interest to the public (such as in cases in which they engaged in behaviour contrary to what their public role entailed or contrary to the image they projected towards the public), then the right to receive and impart information could justify the recording of that person without his consent and the broadcasting of the relevant images by the media.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in louvencourt. the employee in question had then filed a complaint against him, following which the applicant had been charged with making false accusations. he received a reply inviting him to consider appointment to another post, but maintained his original request. on the day of his reinstatement, on 17 march 2008, the applicant found that his work computer had been seized. it can be seen from the judgment of the amiens court of appeal of 15 december 2010 (see paragraphs 14-15 below) that the person who had replaced the applicant during his suspension from post had found “documents which had caught his attention” on the computer, and that he had alerted his superiors in march 2007 and january 2008. a request for a written explanation was sent to the applicant on 7 may 2008. the applicant was summoned to a disciplinary hearing, which took place on 21 may 2008. on 17 july 2008 the sncf regional director decided to dismiss the applicant from the service. his decision was worded as follows:
“ ... the analysis of the files stored on the hard disk of [the applicant’s] work computer, used for his professional duties, contained the following:
i) change of address certificate, signed in his name, certifying the transfer on 01/11/2003 of ms catherine [t.] to the lille general security service; the original certificate, sent to icf north-east enabled the notice period for vacating her flat to be shortened;
ii) change of address certificate, bearing the ministry of justice logo, in the name of m. [s.-j.], on 10 may 2010 the industrial tribunal held that the decision dismissing the applicant from the service had been justified and, accordingly, rejected his claims. an employee cannot use an entire hard disk, which is supposed to record professional data, for his or her private use. in any event, the generic term “personal data” could have referred to work files being personally processed by the employee and did not therefore explicitly designate elements relating to his private life. the term can denote exchanges between colleagues at work or work documents kept as “bloopers” by the employee. the employer also rightly pointed out that the user’s charter provided that “private information [had to] be clearly identified as such (“private” option in the outlook criteria)” and that the same was true of the media receiving that information (“private” folder). the lower court was therefore correct in considering that the file had not been identified as personal. the court of appeal also held that the applicant’s dismissal from the service had not been disproportionate. in the court’s view, those acts had been particularly serious because, as an official responsible for general surveillance, he would have been expected to be of exemplary conduct. he submitted, in particular, that there had been a violation of article 8 of the convention. the social division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeal in a judgment of 4 july 2012. it held as follows:
“ ... whilst files created by an employee with the assistance of the computer facilities supplied to him by his employer for work purposes are presumed to be professional in nature, meaning that the employer is entitled to open them in the employee’s absence, unless they are identified as personal, the description given to the hard disk itself cannot confer privacy on all the data contained in it.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in bijela, montenegro. on 1 march 2012 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the applicant and ordered the applicant’s employer “vektra boka” ad herceg novi (hereinafter “the debtor”) to carry out a re‑allocation of plots for the construction of apartments. this judgment became final on 21 december 2012. on 15 january 2013 the applicant requested enforcement of the above judgment and the herceg novi first instance court issued an enforcement order on 31 january 2013. on 12 june 2015 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 28 january 2016 the herceg novi first instance court transferred the case to the commercial court for further action. on 22 march 2016 the commercial court suspended (obustavio) the enforcement due to the opening of the insolvency proceedings, which decision became final on 11 may 2016. the judgement in question remains unenforced to the present day. on 8 february 2013 the applicant instituted administrative proceedings seeking, on the basis of the above judgment, the removal of competing titles from the land register. on 29 july 2015 the real estate directorate terminated (prekinuo) the administrative proceedings because the commercial court had commenced insolvency proceeding in respect of the debtor. on 7 september 2015 the applicant submitted an objection against the above decision. this objection was rejected as being out of time by the real estate directorate on 5 october 2015. the administrative proceedings are still pending. on an unspecified day in 2003, the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against the debtor, as his former employer, seeking reinstatement and damages. following three remittals, on 3 march 2014 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour. on 22 september 2015 the high court upheld this judgment on the merits, but quashed it as regards the costs. on 31 october 2016 the herceg novi first instance court transferred the case to the commercial court for further action due to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor. on 22 february 2017 the commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant regarding the costs. the parties did not inform the court about when the commercial court’s decision became final and was served on the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1932 and lives in siġġiewi. the property was requisitioned in 1955 by means of a requisition order. the owners of the property never recognised the tenant or accepted any rent from the club. in the years that followed rent was paid to the owners by the competent authority (then the director of social housing, today the housing authority). the government did not refer to the different address, arguing as though the valuation referred to the property at issue in the present case. moreover, in their view the property was in a good state of repair and the alterations had increased its value. they also requested compensation for the damage allegedly sustained. in a judgment of 9 october 1991 the civil court (first hall) in its ordinary jurisdiction rejected the plaintiffs’ claim. the owners appealed against that decision. in a judgment of 31 may 2005 the court of appeal rejected a request for a new trial submitted by the band club. this judgment was upheld by the court of appeal on 27 february 2009. the defendants, the director of social accommodation, the attorney general and the band club, argued that no such violations had occurred. it considered that the requisition order had been issued for the property to be enjoyed by a private entity and therefore the measure had not been in the public interest. she had therefore suffered a violation of article 1 of protocol no. according to the court, the applicant had also suffered a violation of article 14, as only her property had been requisitioned for the use of the band club. bearing in mind the values established by the applicant’s expert as to the rental value and sale value of the property, which was mtl 180,000 (approximately eur 420,000) (pg.12 of the judgment), as well as the length of time the requisition was and remained in place, the court awarded the applicant eur 60,000 in compensation (kumpens) for the requisition of the premises and the violations found, noting it was not awarding civil damages (danni ċivili) in this context. it further contested the order to vacate the property. the attorney general and the director of social accommodation also appealed, in particular in relation to the findings of a lack of public interest, a violation of article 14 and the redress awarded. 1 only in so far as the requisition had been disproportionate. 1 was a consequence of the lack of a fair balance between the interests of the landlord and those of the tenant, and given that the validity of the lease was not at issue in the present case, it did not seem appropriate for it to evict the tenant; it sufficed that that unfair balance be redressed.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bucharest. partidul verde had put up candidates for the 2008 general elections but failed to win any seats. 35/2008 on elections to the chamber of deputies and the senate, amending law no. 67/2004 on local authority elections, law no. 393/2004 on the status of local elected representatives (“law no. parliamentary by-elections were scheduled for 17 january 2010 in order to fill a vacant seat in a bucharest constituency. according to information available to the court, that seat had fallen vacant in october 2009. it alleged in particular that the ban on candidates from parties not represented in parliament and independent candidates infringed the right to free elections and amounted to unjustified discrimination as compared with parties represented in parliament. 35/2008 had been amended less than one year before the by-elections. 61/2010 of 14 january 2010, the constitutional court dismissed the objection of unconstitutionality. having reiterated that parliament’s political structure was defined by general elections, the constitutional court rejected partidul verde’s arguments as follows:
“the [constitutional] court observes that the reason for the holding of the parliamentary by-elections was the fact that a parliamentary seat had fallen vacant. such by-elections are held in order to assign seats in parliament while simultaneously respecting the structure of parliament as it emerged from the latest general elections. in order to respect the sovereignty and the will of the electorate as expressed in the framework of general elections, it is necessary that the by-election stage, which is subsidiary and complementary to the general elections, should observe the electoral threshold criterion which allows political parties to be represented in parliament. by judgment of 30 march 2010 the county court dismissed the party’s challenge, referring to the reasoning of the constitutional court in its aforementioned decision of 14 january 2010, to the effect that since partidul verde had failed to pass the electoral threshold in the general elections it could not put up candidates for the by-elections. the applicant stood as an independent candidate. the applicant appealed to the county court against the rejection of his candidacy, and lodged a fresh objection of unconstitutionality. 61 of 14 january 2010 set out the reasons justifying, in the light of constitutional standards, the elimination of such parties from by-elections, as regards independent candidates no reason was given for subjecting them to the same legal treatment. thus the electoral threshold means that political parties must be representative, to some extent, of the electorate, as required by the sovereignty principle. ...
in conclusion, the electoral law may specify the conditions in which an individual may stand for election as an independent (financial deposit, a specific number of supporters, etc.), but it can in no way exclude from the electoral process, in the case of by-elections, the candidacy of a person [standing as an] independent candidate without thereby infringing the fundamental right enshrined in article 37 of the constitution – the right to be elected.”
on 25 april 1999 the applicant was arrested and placed in police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen persons. on the same day, she underwent a medical examination. the doctor who examined the applicant noted no sign of injury on her body. on 26 april 1999 police officers at the istanbul security directorate took statements from the applicant in the absence of a lawyer. the applicant confessed that she was a member of the illegal organisation and admitted having planned an attack on a shopping centre and having acted as a lookout while other co-accused started a fire by throwing molotov cocktails at the shopping centre, killing thirteen persons in march 1999. on 27 april 1999 the applicant was required to confront with two other co-accused before the police, in the absence of a lawyer. according to the record of the confrontation she admitted having carried out the attack on the shopping centre with those two and another co-accused. on the same day an identification parade took place at the istanbul security directorate, in the absence of a lawyer, where one of the eyewitnesses of the incident identified the applicant in front of police officers and the public prosecutor at the state security court. on the same day the applicant was also required to participate in a reconstruction of the events (yer gösterme). according to the record drafted by police officers and signed by the applicant, the applicant described in detail what steps she had taken before the attack on the shopping centre and indicated how she had acted as a lookout while the other co-accused threw molotov cocktails in the shopping centre. on 30 april 1999 the applicant was seen by a doctor at the forensic medicine institution who noted in his report that the applicant bore no traces of ill-treatment. on the same day, the applicant was heard by the istanbul public prosecutor and by the investigating judge, still in the absence of a lawyer. in her statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that her statements to the police had been given under duress. subsequently, the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on 6 may 1999 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, and charged the applicant with carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, pursuant to article 125 of the former criminal code. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 7 may 2007 relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced her to life imprisonment for membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen people. in delivering its judgment, the assize court further took into consideration several items of evidence, such as the applicant’s statements to the police, public prosecutor and investigating judge, video recordings and written records of the crime scene visits, autopsy reports, eyewitness identifications, and the statements given by some of the accused persons. on 7 may 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in muş. on 19 april 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 20 april 2003 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during the interrogation, the applicant gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party). on 22 april 2003 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress. on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 6 may 2003 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code, law no. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 19 september 2006, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. on 19 november 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds. on 30 december 2008 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant again under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. on 20 march 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
she grew up in šiauliai, which in 2003, the time relevant in this case, had about 130,000 inhabitants. in particular, she had not been able to communicate well and had spoken only about religion-related topics while at the hospital. according to the applicant’s medical records and court decisions (also see paragraphs 29, 33 and 45 below), on the morning of 7 may 2003 she arrived for work as usual at the ministry of economy in vilnius. who was also a head of division at that hospital, and doctor a.g. today b. has agreed to talk because what has happened is completely unexpected. this takes place over four years, something is being cleansed. or, if [things] come to light, they portray it as completely innocent. actually, there is a catholic atmosphere and a catholic resistance, maybe even a christian resistance, against meditation, because there is no god in meditation ...”
the applicant’s mother and sister were shown during the programme and identified by their real first names as “b., violeta’s mother” and “g., violeta’s sister”. for the applicant, the srovės journalists had therefore given an unfair account of her story, and had shown bias by implying that her mental health issues had been caused by meditating at the ojas centre. on the basis of the forensic expert report and other material, the vilnius regional court firstly observed that the applicant had not actually denied that she might have required medical assistance on 7 may 2003 because of her state of mind. in that context, the court also had regard to the applicant’s explanation that because of the side effects of the medication (sleepiness, inability to concentrate) and the possibility of physical restraint (being tied down) in case of disobedience, she had not been able to express her disagreement about being treated at the hospital in writing. she had not known what diagnosis the psychiatric hospital had given the applicant and had only told the srovės journalists which hospital her daughter was in. the doctor testified that she had “not discussed [the applicant’s] health” with the journalists, only the ojas meditation centre and meditation as such. had, without obtaining the applicant’s consent to disclose confidential information, revealed to the srovės journalists that the applicant had been diagnosed with acute psychosis (ūminė psichozė), that she was being treated at vilnius psychiatric hospital, and that she had studied in the united states”. had persistently asked about the meditation she practised and had spoken of it with contempt. it was therefore clear that as of that date her treatment at the hospital and her presence there had been involuntary and also amounted to an unlawful deprivation of liberty. the court of appeal thus fully shared the lower court’s view that legal procedures had been outright disregarded, making the applicant’s stay in the hospital unlawful. (c)  as to the applicant’s right to freedom of religion 49. (d)  as to the applicant’s remaining complaints 51. on 17 june 2009 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law.
the applicant, a syrian national, was born in 1993 and currently resides in khartoum, sudan. on 24 april 2015 the applicant arrived in russia, being in possession of a study visa. he enrolled in the izhevsk state technical university and had his registered residence in the town of izhevsk. on 4 may 2016 the applicant applied for refugee status alleging the risks to his life and safety in the light of the on-going conflict in syria. the request and the subsequent appeals were dismissed by the russian migration authorities and the courts. on 8 june 2016 the applicant was arrested and put in detention by the migration authorities. by a judgment of 9 june 2016 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk found the applicant in breach of migration rules, an offence under article 18.8 § 1.1 of the code of administrative offences, and ordered his expulsion. in order to facilitate enforcement, the court ordered that the applicant be placed in detention. on 10 june 2016 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the lower court’s judgment. on 22 june 2016 the court indicated to the respondent government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, that the applicant should not be extradited, expelled or otherwise involuntarily removed from russia to syria for the duration of the proceedings before the court. since that date the enforcement of the applicant’s expulsion was monthly postponed by the domestic courts. on 13 january 2017 the supreme court of the russian federation on appeal amended the lower courts’ judgments and excluded administrative removal from the sanction, since it would have exposed the applicant’s life to risk in syria. on 20 january 2017 the applicant left russia for lebanon.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is detained in tekirdağ. on 13 february 1999, the applicant was arrested during an operation carried out against an illegal organisation, namely the pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party), at which time he was found to be in possession of a fake identity card. on 15 february 1999 the applicant was interrogated by police officers at the istanbul security headquarters in the absence of a lawyer pursuant to law no. the applicant admitted in his statement that he was a member of the organisation in question and gave information about a number of activities in which he had participated, including armed activities. the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation in question, that he had joined them in a rural area, and that he had afterwards tried to collect money for the organisation in istanbul. however, he withdrew the statements he had made to the police, maintaining that he had not participated in any other activity for the illegal organisation. he confirmed the statement he had made to the public prosecutor, but withdrew the one he had made to the police. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 19 march 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, charging the applicant under article 125 of the former turkish criminal code with membership of an illegal organisation and involvement in separatist activities against the republic of turkey. on 5 june 1999 diyarbakır state security court declared that it had no jurisdiction to examine the case and transferred the file to the istanbul state security court. the applicant was granted time to prepare his defence. at a hearing held on 1 september 2000, the applicant gave evidence in person and denied all the charges. he stated that he had given his previous statements under duress. at a hearing held on 14 november 2001 the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation, but had carried out only political activities for the organisation and not armed activities. on 16 september 2004 istanbul assize court held that the applicant had committed an offence under article 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the applicant was tried afresh before the istanbul assize court. a number of hearings took place during the trial. the applicant claimed during the trial that his statements during the preliminary investigation had been made under duress and he asked to be allowed to confront and examine a certain witness, namely s.k., his request to examine that witness was rejected. on 9 october 2007 the court of cassation upheld the decision of 1 february 2007.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in the altay region. on 22 june, 12 july and 20 december 2004 he attempted suicide by opening his veins. the correctional colony authorities were informed accordingly. since that time he had been examined by the prison psychiatrist at regular intervals. 12 where the applicant was treated from 2 to 26 april 2005. on 5 may 2005 the applicant was examined by the prison doctor on duty who found that his state of health permitted his placement in a punishment cell, provided that he was not held in solitary confinement. he was left alone in the cell, but the door was kept open. on the same day the applicant went on a hunger strike in protest against his placement in solitary confinement. he reiterated the recommendation that given the applicant’s mental condition solitary confinement was contraindicated. about an hour later the applicant had a panic attack and attempted to open his veins with his teeth. on 15 december 2005 a deputy prosecutor of barnaul refused to open criminal proceedings. he referred to statements by a warder, mr sh., that the applicant had himself asked him to shut the door. moreover, the applicant’s health had not been seriously damaged as a result of the incident. it follows from the letter of 16 december 2005 from the prosecutor of barnaul that the prosecutor’s office had found that the applicant had been lawfully placed in a punishment cell. liu-8 had been warned against “permitting similar incidents to occur in future”. following to further complaints by the applicant, in which he stated in particular that he had never asked the warders to close the door, the prosecutor of barnaul conducted an additional inquiry. he found that the warders had acted in compliance with the internal regulations and had had no intention of provoking the applicant to self-injury. he submitted, in particular, that the warders had known that he suffered from claustrophobia and had closed the door to take vengeance on him for going on a hunger strike. on 2 november 2006 the altay regional court upheld the decision of 27 september 2006 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in belovo, kemerovo region. following the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of drug trafficking, on 14 november 2008 he was placed in temporary detention facility no. he remained in that facility until 20 april 2010. each cell measured approximately twenty metres and housed, for the major part of his stay, between 10 and 14 inmates. in the majority of the cells the toilet was merely a hole in the floor. a lavatory pan was installed in three cells, in the corner, and was separated from the living area by a 1.5-metre fence. the applicant was afforded an hour-long walk daily in the recreation yard. according to the government the applicant was provided with an individual sleeping place, except for the detention period between 18 november and 2 december 2008. there was artificial lighting, natural and artificial ventilation in the cells; the cells were heated. on 30 december 2009 the leninskiy district court of tomsk found the applicant guilty of attempted drug trafficking and sentenced him to nine years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal and asked to ensure the applicant’s presence at the appeal hearing. on 17 may 2010 the tomsk regional court upheld the conviction, having heard a prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer. the applicant was not transported to the hearing. on 13 february 2013 the presidium of the tomsk regional court quashed the decision of 17 may 2010 and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 25 march 2013 the tomsk regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the applicant and his lawyer were present at the hearing.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in istanbul. on 16 june 1999 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of belonging to an illegal organisation, namely hizbullah. on 21 june 1999 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the hizbullah and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation. on 22 june 1999 the applicant was heard by the diyarbakır public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress. on the same date, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 30 june 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 § 2 of the former turkish criminal code, namely for membership of an illegal armed organisation. on 9 november 1999 the applicant was released pending trial. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 12 june 2008, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. in convicting the applicant, the assize court further took into consideration information on computer hard disks and print-outs, which had been seized in a house belonging to the illegal organisation, as well as the statements of several witnesses who had testified against the applicant. on 4 june 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in vilnius. had been a prominent lithuanian politician since the 1980s. on 21 october 2003 the prosecutor opened the investigation. on 10 october 2005 the vilnius city first district court acquitted v.p. he considered that there was sufficient evidence to charge v.p. had been prominent politicians and public figures and therefore had to tolerate higher levels of criticism. at the court hearing on 9 december 2009, v.l. argued that the disputed statements amounted to statements of fact and not value judgments. in the civil proceedings up until his death. they submitted essentially the same arguments that v.p. they also argued that an obligation to pay compensation for damage allegedly caused by a literary work was a personal obligation of the author and could not be transferred to his heirs. however, the parties disagreed as to whether they had amounted to statements of fact or to value judgments. seeking to determine whether the disputed statements had been factually accurate, the vilnius regional court examined the evidence which had been collected in the criminal proceedings (see paragraph 8 above), as well as the sources indicated by v.p. as for the fourth statement (see paragraph 5 above), it considered that allegations of ejecting the pharmacy owners onto the streets and suing them for a wooden bench – an item of movable property of low value – had created the impression of v.l.-ž. the applicant and her brothers lodged an appeal against the decision of the vilnius regional court, presenting essentially the same arguments as before (see paragraphs 13 and 17 above). on 13 august 2010 the court of appeal upheld that decision in its entirety. it firstly stated that the key difference between statements of fact and value judgments was that the truthfulness of the former could be verified and proved, whereas the latter expressed a subjective view to which the criteria of truthfulness or accuracy did not apply. the court stated that the factual accuracy of the disputed statements could be proved by anyone and not only by their author, and that the applicant and her brothers had been able to rely on the material collected during the criminal proceedings and on the submissions made by their father in the civil proceedings, as well as to submit new evidence themselves. it stated that the applicant and her brothers had accepted their father’s inheritance, which included certain rights to the book (see paragraph 14 above). accordingly, once the court had declared that the disputed statements in the book had been erroneous and insulting to the honour and dignity of others, the author’s legal successors had the obligation to ensure that those statements would no longer be disseminated.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in kyiv. two police officers approached them and made a remark that their behaviour was inappropriate, without further interference. on 16 december the st luke brotherhood reacted to this by an act of protest in the glory park in the capital. it showed that people should use the ‘eternal flame’. on 21 december 2010 the police questioned d., one of the women who had participated in the performance. she submitted that she had not known the other members of the group and that she had met them by chance. she knew only the first names of the other participants. subsequently the charge of hooliganism was dropped. they submitted that they knew nothing about her involvement in the event in question. the applicant’s mother had seen her about a week earlier and had received a telephone call from her two days earlier. on 17 march 2011 the investigator applied to the pecherskyy district court of kyiv (“the pecherskyy court”) for the applicant’s detention as a preventive measure pending trial. on 31 march 2011 the applicant was questioned as an accused in the presence of her lawyer. while insisting that her only intention had been to protest against the inappropriate use of natural gas, she confessed to the offence and expressed remorse. it noted that she was accused of a serious offence punishable by imprisonment of from three to five years. it was also considered that she might hinder establishing the truth if at liberty. in so far as the applicant’s lawyer relied on her positive character references from various sources, the court noted that those could not guarantee her compliance with all the procedural requirements. she emphasised that her actions had been nothing else than a protest driven by good motives. on 17 june 2011 the pecherskyy court held a preparatory hearing, during which it rejected the applicant’s application for release with reference to the seriousness of the charge against her, “the nature and the circumstances of the offence of which she [was] accused”, as well as the fact that she had been declared wanted by the police. the judge also stated, in general terms, that there were no grounds for the applicant’s release under a personal guarantee. d., who was questioned in court, confirmed that account of events.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in muş. on 30 october 2001 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation, namely the pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party). on 1 november 2001 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the pkk and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation. on 3 november 2001 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations. on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 6 november 2001 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 of the former criminal code, with membership of an illegal armed organisation. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 6 october 2006 the istanbul assize court, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, convicted him of membership of an illegal organisation under article 314 § 2 of the new criminal code and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment. on 15 december 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first‑instance court.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in tiszalök. the applicant declared that he had not been. at the hospital he was examined in the presence of the police officer. the police report filed by a on 19 july 2012 stated that the applicant had not been ill-treated during questioning. none of the police officers had seen the applicant harming himself but a. had observed him biting his nails and lips. he asserted that he had been ill-treated during his interrogation. budapest prison initiated criminal proceedings on charges of forced interrogation. in the ensuing criminal investigation conducted by the central investigation office the applicant gave a testimony on 14 november 2012, stating that during his questioning he had refused to make a statement and as a consequence had been punched by one of the police officers several times on his head, neck and back. he had fallen against a chair and when he had tried to get up, he had been slapped four or five times in the face. he also stated that he had noted the injuries on the applicant’s face following the medical examination at budapest prison. he had asked the applicant why he had not complained of his ill-treatment earlier, to which the applicant had replied that he had been afraid of the police officers. he did not remember either the applicant or the circumstances of his transfer. therefore, in his estimation the applicant could not have shown any visible signs of injury when he was handed back from the interrogation. on 6 october 2013 e, the prison security officer who had taken photos of the applicant’s injuries during his readmission was questioned as a witness. on 5 december 2013 g, the guard on duty at budapest prison, was questioned as a witness; he could not remember either the applicant or anything else concerning his complaint. h stated that as a general practice detainees were under constant supervision while waiting for medical examinations, whereas i asserted that there were instances where detainees were left alone when placed in so‑called “healthcare waiting rooms”. neither of the witnesses knew with certainty whether this had been the case for the applicant. the prison doctor was also questioned the same day. the central investigation office commissioned a forensic expert opinion. the applicant complained, seeking the continuation of the investigations.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in sestaci. in another letter it was stated that one of those police officers had previously been convicted of similar offences, but had been exempted from serving a sentence and had soon been re-employed by the ministry of internal affairs. subsequently, the newspaper published an article on the basis of the letters. he argued that, in any event, the letters could not be classified as secret under domestic law. the domestic courts found in favour of the applicant’s employer, on the grounds that the applicant had breached his duty of confidentiality by disclosing the letters, and that he had failed to consult other heads of departments before disclosing the letters to the newspaper. balancing the different issues involved, the court also took into consideration the detriment caused to the prosecutor general’s office by the disclosure. lastly, the court noted that the applicant had acted in good faith and that the most severe sanction possible had been imposed on him. he was successful, and on 28 may 2008 the supreme court of justice ordered his reinstatement. according to the applicant, on 29 may 2008 he had a meeting with the prosecutor general, who asked him to resign from his position. as the applicant refused, the prosecutor general told him that “he had enough wits to force him to do that”. he was told to go home and wait for his employment order. on the same date the prosecutor general wrote to the head of the trade unions of the prosecutor general’s office, seeking the trade unions’ approval of the applicant’s dismissal from his employment on the basis of section 14(8) of the public service act (see paragraph 23 below). each morning he had to wait outside the building until one of his superiors allowed him to enter. since he had no office, he stayed in the library or in the press office. the government also disputed the above submissions. the dismissal was based on section 14(8) of the public service act. according to the order, the trade unions had consented to his dismissal on 6 june 2008. he presented details about his meeting with the prosecutor general of 29 may 2008 and about his discussion with him (see paragraph 13 above). moreover, on the very day of his reinstatement, the prosecutor general had obtained the trade unions’ approval of his dismissal. however, the appeal on points of law was dismissed on 29 april 2009.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in zagreb. he was formerly a lawyer practising in zagreb. in the context of the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of a vice-president of the croatian privatisation fund (hrvatski fond za privatizaciju, hereinafter “the fund”), a legal entity established by the state and tasked with carrying out the privatisation of publicly owned property, the authorities intercepted and recorded a number of the applicant’s telephone conversations and messages. the secret surveillance was carried out on the basis of orders issued by an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu). the reasoning of the relevant orders is outlined in the case of matanović v. croatia (no. on 16 june 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of corruption involving a number of officials of the fund and other individuals. following his arrest, an investigation was opened in the zagreb county court (see, for further details, matanović, cited above, §§ 15-28). the applicant was indicted ‒ in his capacity as the lawyer acting for the vice-president of the fund ‒ for facilitating the receipt of a bribe of 150,000 euros (eur) for his client and aiding and abetting the abuse of power and authority by him. during the proceedings the applicant challenged the lawfulness of the secret surveillance orders, arguing that they lacked the requisite reasoning and had been issued contrary to the provisions of the relevant domestic law (see, for further details on the procedural actions taken, matanović, cited above, §§ 29-63). on 15 may 2009 the zagreb county court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. the trial court also provided detailed reasoning why it considered that the available evidence provided a reliable basis for the applicant’s conviction. when convicting the applicant, the trial court had relied on the secret surveillance recordings, the statement of an informant, who had been questioned at the trial, the statements of other witnesses, and the evidentiary material available in the file. on 24 and 28 september 2009, the applicant both personally and through a lawyer lodged appeals against the first-instance judgment before the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske). in the appeals, the applicant argued that he had been unlawfully monitored and that his conviction had been based on evidence obtained unlawfully by the use of secret surveillance. he also extensively challenged the factual findings and conclusions of the first-instance court. on 17 february 2010 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the first-instance judgment. on 22 april 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) alleging in particular that he had been placed under unlawful secret surveillance and that the evidence thereby obtained had been used in the criminal proceedings against him. he also extensively elaborated on the alleged deficiencies in the lower courts’ factual conclusions. it also stressed that the applicant had actively participated in the proceedings and that there had been no arbitrariness in the findings and decisions of the relevant courts. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 23 february 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in simferopol. she is a single mother and has a son who at the time of the accident in question was eight years old. on 24 july 1995 the applicant was knocked down by a trolley bus. she suffered an open craniocerebral injury and contusion of the brain. as a result, the applicant received the status of a disabled person with the lowest degree of disability (третя група інвалідності). in january 1996 the applicant instituted proceedings in the tsentralnyy district court against the simferopol trolley bus company, claiming compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage to her health caused by the accident. on 25 february 2003 the applicant lodged an application with the court (litvinyuk v. ukraine, no. 9724/03), finding that the length of the proceedings in her case had been excessive. the court took into consideration the period after 11 september 1997, when the convention had come into force in respect of ukraine. the length of the proceedings within the court’s competence was nine years and twenty two days. the court, in particular, noted the following:
“47. as for the issues that were at stake for the applicant, the court notes that following the traffic accident the applicant was seriously injured and received a disability degree. given that the applicant was a single mother and had a child to raise, the compensations for loss of earnings and for expenses sustained as a result of a poor state of her health were of undeniable importance for the applicant. the court therefore considers that what was at stake for the applicant called for an expeditious decision on her claims.” on 27 march 2007 the simferopolskiy district court found against the applicant. on 23 april 2008 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the decision of the court of appeal. on 29 july 2009 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea quashed this decision and remitted the case to a first-instance court for fresh examination. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision stating that she had not been aware about the above-mentioned hearings. on 27 january 2010 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea rejected the applicant’s appeal. the court noted that the applicant had been duly notified about the date of the hearings.
the applicant was born in nigeria in 1975 and lives in zölling. in 1997 he arrived in germany, where he applied for asylum under a different identity. his application was finally rejected in july 1998. in january 1999 he moved on to spain, where he worked as a cook and waiter in various restaurants. the applicant’s daughter is a german national. from the outset they had, and continue to have, joint custody. on 28 may 2002 the munich regional court sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment for drug trafficking on a large scale. it considered, in favour of the applicant, that this was his first criminal conviction, that the first delivery had failed (the drugs did not actually enter the distribution system), and that the applicant had been detained on remand since july 2001. on 4 july 2006, the applicant and the child’s mother agreed before the munich family court that supervised meetings between him and his daughter would take place as soon as he was released from prison. the applicant has not lived with his daughter and her mother since his release. since 2012 they have been living in different cities, with distances between their homes varying between thirty and seventy kilometres and the travelling time varying between forty minutes and one hour. the applicant sees his daughter on a regular basis and maintains close contact with her. it is not disputed between the parties that she spends every other weekend with him. this decision became final on 1 december 2009. on 10 september 2009 the applicant applied for a residence permit based on family ties. he was responsible for the renewed separation and the purpose of the expulsion order had not yet been achieved. the relationship between the applicant and his daughter had the quality of a “family” and their ties were of benefit to the child. the purpose of section 10 § 3 of the residence act was to sanction abuse of the asylum procedure, but an abusive asylum application should not bear negative consequences where the foreigner had a claim, within the meaning of that provision, to a residence permit. after the authority of the city of munich, on 12 june 2012, had ordered the applicant to present himself to the embassy of nigeria in germany so that a passport for the upcoming expulsion could be issued, the applicant refused to do so and filed an action against this order with the munich administrative court. - the immigration authorities will give their consent for a visa to enter germany based on family reunion.
the applicants alleged, before the domestic courts and before the court, that on 26 august 2002 police detained mr s. selami and took him from gostivar to skopje where he was severely beaten. the police brought him to skopje hospital, where he underwent brain surgery. by a letter of 29 august 2002, the ministry had informed them that mr s. selami had been admitted to skopje hospital. according to a medical certificate from tetovo medical centre issued on 29 january 2003 on the basis of the available medical evidence, mr s. selami was in a post-operative state (following medical trepanation of his skull and evacuation of the internal brain haemorrhage); parts of his skull and the tough brain membrane had been seriously damaged; he had suffered reduced mobility of all limbs, muscle hypotonia and neck and rib fractures. as to the subsequent establishment of facts by the domestic civil courts, see paragraphs 15-18 below. mr s. selami’s detention was extended on three occasions. the extension orders specified that he had been deprived of his liberty on 18 september 2002 and that he had been held under the detention order in skopje hospital until 18 october 2002. the remaining accused were acquitted (ослободени од обвинение). they reiterated that on 26 august 2002 mr s. selami had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty; that he had been taken to police stations where he had been beaten and physically ill-treated; and that the police had taken him to skopje hospital where he had undergone head surgery. both claims were joined and decided in a single set of proceedings. during the proceedings, the domestic courts commissioned two expert opinions and admitted into evidence extensive medical material issued by relevant medical institutions in switzerland concerning mr s. selami’s earlier injury while at work in that state. on the basis of the available medical evidence, the court established that in 1985, while at work in switzerland, mr s. selami had fallen and injured his spine and right leg, which had become dysfunctional. he had sustained serious head injuries, which had affected, though not permanently, the left side of his body and had provoked other negative psychological effects. relying on the statements of mr s. selami and the first and fourth applicants, the court established that in august 2002 the police had searched their house. they had asked mr s. selami to come with them to gostivar police station. he had denied having any connection to that incident. both mr s. selami and the applicants appealed to the skopje court of appeal. the solicitor general also challenged the judgment. ...
... this court established on the basis of medical evidence that in 1989 [mr s. selami] had been certified disabled in switzerland and that he had been receiving disability benefits ever since. the court rejected the applicants’ arguments that the first-instance court had not decided the claim for compensation for damage sustained as a result of mr s. selami’s physical ill-treatment.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in nova kakhovka. in particular she had been involved in litigation with the local municipal utilities company. in 2007 the municipal utilities company instituted proceedings against the applicant, seeking recovery of utilities arrears. you have not even once protected my rights or the rights of the individuals i have been representing and helping ... previously i used not to challenge you but lately i have started to do so. you do not allow my challenges, arguing that my arguments against you are supposedly made up and subjective. all the more so because i know from a court clerk that an instruction [has been given to] the nova kakhovka court to decide cases [in which i am involved] against me. you, by your decision, deprived me of that right. judge [voice rising]: olena oleksandrivna, i am forced to interrupt you because you are making clearly false statements; this is grounds for drawing up a report of contempt of court! so please be balanced; you have just made so many false statements that are insulting the court. applicant: what i said ... [inaudible]
judge [voice rising]: please substantiate it, substantiate it with evidence – substantiate it! applicant: there is my complaint ... [inaudible]
judge [voice rising]: that complaint is just your subjective opinion! you prove that you haven’t done all of this! the report stated that the applicant’s rights as a person accused of an administrative offence, as set out in article 268 of the code (see paragraph 25 below), had been explained to her and that her case would be examined on the same day. the report was accompanied by written statements by ms s. (see paragraph 7 above) and ms me. ( according to the applicant, the witness statements had not been in the file when it was transferred to judge b., who examined her contempt case; rather, they were obtained subsequently under judge b.’s direction. on the same day judge b. held a hearing in the presence of the applicant. the applicant then spent five days in detention. on 2 july 2007 the first vice-president of the kherson regional court of appeal, acting on his own motion within the meaning of article 294 of the code (see paragraph 28 above), reviewed the case. it put forward a point of view according to which g. was innocent since he had not provoked the brawl but had simply been defending a friend whom the victim had supposedly humiliated. the article reported that g’s conviction by judge m. had again been quashed on appeal and the case remitted for retrial before a different district court and that g.’s relatives had apparently made sure that the case would be under the supervision of the presidential administration and other high state bodies.
the applicant, is a french citizen, who was born in 1969 and lives in gaillard, france. on 18 october 2013 their son, l., was born. the applicant returned to their home on 27 december 2013. lodged a complaint against the applicant in toul. she alleged that the applicant had become hostile and sometimes aggressive towards her and constituted a danger to her and their son. left for hungary with l, without the prior knowledge or authorisation of the applicant. has lived with l. at her parents’ home in szombathely. on 24 march 2014 the court found that l. had been illegally taken from france, placed the son with his father (that is to say the applicant), and granted the applicant sole custody. had decided on the child’s place of residence without his approval. thus, as he suggested, his sister would look after l. the court also noted that the applicant had lodged his request almost a year after l.’s abduction and that although he had visited hungary on a number of occasions, he had not been in contact with l. thus, the court dismissed the applicant’s request under article 13(b) of the hague convention. the applicant lodged a petition for judicial review of this decision with the kúria. he also maintained that his lack of contact with l. was due to k.b.v. the kúria also found it important that according to the applicant’s own statements his sister would take care of l. if the child were returned to france and that, according to the decision of the french courts, k.b.v. thus, the kúria concluded that the return of the child, who was less than two years old, to an unknown environment would cause serious psychological harm. on 5 january 2015 the district court discontinued the proceedings again, finding that k.b.v. on 22 april 2015 the applicant tried to abduct l., who was walking with his grandfather on the street. a petition for judicial review lodged by the applicant with the kúria was dismissed as time-barred on 15 january 2016. in the course of which he caused grievous bodily harm to her. on 11 december 2015 the szombathely district court issued a european arrest warrant against the applicant, who was detained in france on 14 december 2015. l. was placed in a childcare institution.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in stryzhavka. beginning of the picket: 14 september 2005 at 14:00. chairman of the [association] chumak, sergiy viktorovych.” at the time of the relevant events the applicant was older. on 14 september 2006 the association started the picket as intended. on the same date the leninskiy district court in vinnytsia (“the district court”) held a hearing at which the applicant, representing the association, denied the allegations that the picketers had engaged in any inappropriate conduct. and the police officers present at the site of the picket be summoned for questioning; that the police authorities be asked whether any incidents of unlawful conduct by the picketers had been documented; and that the site be inspected in order to determine whether, in fact, the camping tents mounted by the picketers had obstructed the traffic or the passage of pedestrians. the relevant part of the judgment read as follows:
“... [the] executive committee ... did not and could not have known about a possible breach of public order by the participants of the event, which fact resulted in missing the time-limit for lodging a court action as required by paragraph 1 of article 182 of the code of administrative justice of ukraine; the court therefore resets the procedural time-limit ...
the court, when deciding the case, takes into account that the participants in the event installed small architectural edifices on the pavement. also the number of protesters is not defined ... and it may gradually increase. at 9 p.m. on 15 september 2006 the protesters were dispersed by the police. were not registered as residents at the addresses indicated by them in their complaints lodged with the police. on 8 october 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal against the court judgment of 15 september 2006, which he signed as the association’s chairman. who had given false home addresses and thus could not be identified. the applicant further complained that the court had rejected his request that those individuals be located and summoned, and that the police officers present at the site of the picket also be summoned for questioning concerning the alleged breaches of the law by the protesters. he also regretted that the court had refused his requests that the relevant police reports documenting the purported breaches of the law (if any) be produced and an inspection of the picket site be carried out with a view to determining whether the tents erected by the activists could count as “architectural structures” and whether there had been any obstruction of traffic or pedestrians. on 22 november 2006 the vinnytsia regional court of appeal examined the applicant’s appeal and decided that, in view of the circumstances of the case (namely, the short notice of the intention to hold a picket and the indefinite period during which the participants planned to continue their demonstration) the administrative action lodged by the executive committee could be accepted for examination. in particular, the constitution of ukraine generally allowed peaceful assemblies, which could therefore not be prohibited in a blanket manner. accordingly, the court found that the term “peaceful assemblies” in the operative part of the district court’s judgment had to be substituted with the term “pickets”. the court then rejected the applicant’s remaining arguments as unsubstantiated. on 1 april 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in frankfurt am main. he was also married to the co-accused, who, like him, was a national of the russian federation, and he did not have a legal residence or other significant ties to germany. on 19 december 2014 the frankfurt am main prosecution authorities brought criminal proceedings against the applicant, charging him with eight counts of aiding aggravated fraudulent conversion, one count of aiding aggravated corruption and fourteen counts of aiding aggravated tax evasion. on 26 january 2015 the darmstadt regional court sent the translation of the 280-page indictment to the applicant. on 6 may 2015 the regional court decided to open the main proceedings, which commenced on 8 june 2015. on 14 july 2016 the regional court convicted the applicant on five counts each of aiding fraudulent conversion and tax evasion and sentenced him to four years and six months’ imprisonment. the conviction has not yet become final, with appeals lodged by both the applicant and the prosecution authorities still pending at the time the court examined the application. it also ordered that the case file be re-submitted to it by 28 october 2014 at the latest for the next periodic review. 2 bvr 2050/14), a decision which was served on the applicant on 6 october 2014. subsequently, the applicant initiated another set of review proceedings before the district court and lodged a complaint of bias against the competent judge. on 10 november 2014 the court of appeal dismissed the objection and the appeal to be heard. the judges gave their statements on 27 november 2014 and 1 december 2014. the applicant then requested additional statements from them, which was not deemed to be necessary by the court of appeal on 11 december 2014. the judges concerned again gave statements and the applicant’s counsel was given the opportunity to respond. on 8 january 2015 the applicant lodged an objection against that decision. on 22 january 2015 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s second complaint of bias as ill-founded, also addressing his objection in its decision. on 10 march 2015 the applicant’s lawyer sent to the court of appeal two comprehensive submissions which he had made in the main proceedings before the regional court and asked the appeal court to take them into account when deciding on the continuation of the applicant’s remand detention. on 21 april 2015 the applicant lodged another constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the absence of a decision by the court of appeal in the pending detention review proceedings had violated his right to liberty and security. on 27 april 2015 the federal constitutional court refused to accept the complaint for adjudication without providing reasons (no. the court did not address the duration of the review proceedings nor provide any reasons for it.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in mārupe. the investigation concluded that the primary cause of the accident was “human error” (cilvēka faktors), namely g.v. nevertheless, on 16 august 2008 he had flown without sufficient qualifications. on 14 january 2010 the proceedings with regard to g.v. during the investigation, an official of the civil aviation agency testified that in commercial aviation, the question of an operator’s responsibility with regard to the qualifications and rights of a pilot was sufficiently regulated, however this regulation did not apply to general aviation flights. for negligence in the performance of his professional duties (section 197 of the criminal law) and violation of air traffic safety or operation regulations (section 257(2) of the criminal law). on 22 october 2012 the tukums district court found d.k. he had given the aircraft to the pilot knowing that the latter lacked the appropriate authorisation and had permitted him to fly. would not fly, owing to the bad weather conditions. with regard to negligence in the performance of his professional duties (see paragraph 44 below), the court deemed that neither the indictment nor the first-instance judgment had shown what professional duties in particular d.k. in accordance with section 34 of the law on aviation, a pilot was prohibited from performing his functions in the event that he had not acquired the appropriate qualifications. on 14 may 2013 the riga regional court, acting as a court of first instance, dismissed the claim in full on the grounds that the defendants had not committed unlawful actions (prettiesiska darbība). had allowed the pilot to operate this aircraft carrying seven passengers. moreover, the applicant had occupied the front seat of the aircraft, next to the pilot, and had maintained radio communication. it had been planned that the pilot would operate the aircraft with the flight instructor (see paragraph 33 above). was the owner of the aircraft, therefore it was liable for loss caused by the source of dangerous activity. if a civil aircraft flight crew included only one pilot, he or she was also the pilot-in-command. on 21 march 2013 the law on aviation was supplemented by section 91. in a judgment of 24 november 2010 in case no. ...”
chapter 2.6 aeroplane maintenance 2.6.1 owner’s maintenance responsibilities
“2.6.1.1 the owner of an aeroplane, or in case where it is leased, the lessee, shall ensure that, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the state of registry [the state on whose register the aircraft is entered]:
a) the aeroplane is maintained in an airworthy condition;
b) the operational and emergency equipment necessary for an intended flight is serviceable; and
c) the certificate of airworthiness of the aeroplane remains valid.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained at varna prison. before the events at issue, he had several previous convictions for theft. the applicant was suspected of having committed the offence and a search order was issued in respect of him. he had been hiding in an abandoned house in a neighbouring village. in addition, he confessed to having stolen a gun and other personal possessions from another house on an earlier occasion. later on that same day the applicant was transferred to the police station in varna, where he asked to be examined by a doctor. on 23 june 2006 the varna district court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand in connection with that charge. was joined, continued over the months which followed. on 18 december 2006 an investigator brought charges against the applicant in connection with the two offences mentioned above. on that occasion the applicant had a lawyer, retained by him on the same day. on an unspecified date in 2007 the applicant was indicted and taken to court. were examined as witnesses and recounted their conversation with the applicant on 21 june 2006 and the confession he had made to them. they replied to questions posed by the prosecution and the defence. the regional court heard other experts and witnesses. during the next hearing, held on 3 october 2007, the applicant made a statement on the charges. at the same time, the confession was one of “the pillars” of the indictment, as there was no other evidence showing the course of the events inside the victim’s house. after the murder the applicant had run away. who had recounted what the applicant had confessed to them with regard to the course of the events in the victim’s house. he argued that the regional court had not commented on the evidence showing that the applicant had been beaten in order to make the confession the officers had recounted, pointed out that the confession had not been repeated once the applicant had been taken before an investigator, and relied again on article 118 of the code of criminal procedure. moreover, the officers’ testimony had been given in breach of article 118 of the code of criminal procedure.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1973 and 1972 respectively. on the same day, mr canşad (“the first applicant”) was arrested and taken into custody at the anti-terrorism department of the istanbul security directorate. the police obtained evidence from several witnesses. he added that, having seen the man from afar, he could not describe his face. however, he indicated that he would be likely to recognize the individuals concerned, and that in any event the man had already been apprehended by uniformed police officers. an employee at nazlım, identified the first applicant as the man who had thrown molotov cocktails at the shop where she worked, where three people had been killed. identified the first applicant as one of the individuals who had thrown molotov cocktails at that shop. he admitted having had sympathy towards the illegal organisation and having been involved in the march. however, he stated that he had only acted as a lookout at the entrance to the street, and denied having thrown molotov cocktails. on the same day, the first applicant was brought before a judge of the istanbul state security court, before whom he reiterated that he had not participated in the rally and had nothing to say about it. on 9 may 1996 the second applicant took part in a photo identification procedure in the absence of a lawyer. according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, he identified the first applicant. on 10 may 1996 the second applicant was interrogated by the police in the absence of a lawyer, pursuant to section 31 of law no. at that hearing, counsel for the first applicant requested that a.a. should be heard by the court in the presence of the applicant. at the end of each hearing the trial court decided to continue the applicants’ detention. following the judgment of the court of cassation, the proceedings before the trial court started again on 19 september 1999 and the composition of the trial court was changed several times. the trial court rejected his applications. that letter was read out at a hearing on 7 february 2002. on 9 october 2002 the court of cassation quashed the judgment again on procedural grounds, without examining the merits of the case.
according to a medical report issued on 29 june 2004 by the gaziantep university hospital, the applicant’s state of health required him to follow one diet for his diabetes and another one for his coronary disease, and to live in a well-ventilated environment free of tobacco smoke. on 30 april 2008 the applicant was placed in the erzurum h-type prison, where he remained until 6 march 2009, serving a term for terrorist offences. on 17 july 2008 the applicant was taken to the cardiology department of the atatürk university hospital in erzurum (“erzurum hospital”) for blood tests and an echocardiogram. a report drawn up on 24 july 2008 by the erzurum hospital’s health board pointed out that owing to his cardiac issues the applicant had to adhere to a special anti-cholesterol diet with high poultry meat and vegetable content and low levels of beef and saturated fats. the report mentioned that if the prison in which the applicant had been placed offered a wide choice of daily menus it would be unnecessary to transfer the applicant to another prison providing such facilities. it added that on the other hand, if the prison only offered one standard menu, the erzurum hospital’s health board would hold a further meeting in order to decide whether the applicant should be transferred to another prison, after ascertaining the view of a dietician on the cholesterol content of the standard menu. on 24 october 2008 the prison disciplinary board rejected his request on the grounds that the foodstuffs would spoil very quickly, before reaching their destination. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 5 december 2008 the erzurum assize court (“the assize court”) upheld the dismissal decision given by the judge responsible for the execution of sentences. on 5 december 2008 he underwent an exercise electrocardiogram. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint with the judge responsible for the execution of sentences about the refusal by the prison authorities, despite his many requests, to provide him with meals compatible with his medically prescribed diet, which he said formed an integral part of his medical treatment. he also complained about his difficulties in obtaining medication. on 2 january 2009 the judge responsible for the execution of sentences allowed the applicant’s request. that judge referred in his decision to a document which the prison authorities had drawn up for the attention of the erzurum public prosecutor’s office, stating the following:
“... medically prescribed diets cannot be prepared in [our] prison’s kitchen; we can only cook unsalted and unspiced versions of the meals prepared for the other [prisoners]. extra potatoes, boiled eggs and tomatoes are sometimes provided.” in view of the impossibility of ascertaining whether meals prepared in that manner were compatible with the medical prescriptions in question, he ordered that the standard menu should be examined by a dietician and, if that menu proved incompatible with the applicant’s diet, that the applicant should be provided with an appropriate menu. on 8 january 2009 the judge responsible for the execution of sentences dismissed that appeal. on the same day the prosecutor lodged a fresh appeal against the decision of 8 january 2009, this time with the assize court. he argued as follows: the meals were prepared in the prison kitchen; the daily allowance per prisoner, which totalled three turkish liras (try – about 1.40 euro at the material time), was only sufficient to prepare one type of meal per day, which meant that the prisoners could not be offered several types of menus; menus could not be prepared for the medically prescribed diets for a total of thirty-eight individuals detained in the same prison, and only an unsalted, fat-free and unspiced version of the standard menu was on offer. according to the prosecutor, the prison would only be able to improve its service in that respect if the amount of the daily allowance were increased.
the applicant institute is a private institute that carries out research in the field of social sciences. the research projects were to be evaluated under the rules on quality assessment and funding of the public research organisation programme. subsequently, the ministry seems to have joined the proceedings for the two tenders, but no formal decision regarding the joinder appears to have been made. on 17 february 2004 the ministry decided that the applicant institute would not be awarded any funding. on 19 october 2009 the applicant institute lodged another action before the administrative court on account of the ministry’s failure to adopt a decision within the prescribed time-limit. it was further noted that evaluators had signed a declaration of confidentiality and an undertaking to withdraw in the event that a conflict of interests was found. it further urged the administrative court to decide that it would be awarded funding. it also complained of errors in the evaluation of the competing programmes, because not all of the criteria specified in the rules on quality assessment and funding of the public research organisation programme had been taken into account. additionally, it submitted a letter of 2 december 2003 which one of the witnesses, k., had sent to the minister of education, science and sport and several other addressees. in the letter k. notified them of problems he had detected in the tender proceedings in which he had participated as an evaluator. after the parties had exchanged a number of written submissions, the administrative court, without holding a hearing, dismissed the action. the reasons for the decision were given on a single page. invoking section 71(2) of the administrative dispute act (zakon o upravnem sporu – hereinafter “the ada”, see paragraph 23 below), the administrative court chiefly referred to the submissions of the ministry. it considered, among other things, that the ministry had not acted unlawfully in joining the proceedings. regarding the alleged conflict of interests, the court stated that it agreed with the ministry as to why no such conflict existed and cited section 71(2) of the ada (see paragraph 23 below). no reasons were given for not holding a hearing. none of the evidence relied on by the applicant institute in their appeal (see paragraph 11 above) was acknowledged or referred to in the court’s reasoning. on 31 march 2011 the applicant institute lodged an appeal on points of law. it reiterated that the witnesses it had proposed had not been heard and that no hearing had been held. on 19 november 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant institute’s complaint, finding that it did not concern an important constitutional question or entail a violation of human rights with serious consequences for the applicant institute.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is detained in diyarbakır. during his detention in police custody, the applicant was allegedly subjected to ill-treatment by police officers. in particular, electric shocks were administered to his testicles. on 25 december 2001 the applicant was interrogated by the police in the absence of a lawyer. on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who questioned him in the absence of a lawyer. during the hearing, the applicant repeated his allegations of having been subjected to ill-treatment in police custody and denied his statements to the police. he stated that electric shocks had been administered to his body through his testicles and that his testicles had been squeezed, which had caused serious harm. the report stated that the applicant had a dilation of the veins in his left testicle of up to 2.6 mm, which had resulted in a varicocele. state security courts were abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004. the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 25 june 2004 the diyarbakır public prosecutor issued a decision to discontinue the criminal proceedings against the police officers on account of a lack of evidence. on 12 june 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 18 january 2010 the court of cassation quashed the decision for procedural reasons. on 2 april 2010 the applicant asked the diyarbakır assize court for his release pending trial. 6008, which provided that juveniles could not be tried before assize courts, which had special jurisdiction to try a number of aggravated crimes enumerated under article 250 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure at the material time. the case was thus referred to the diyarbakır juvenile court. on 2 november 2010 the applicant was released pending trial. on 5 june 2012 the diyarbakır juvenile court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code and sentenced him to sixteen years and eight months’ imprisonment. on 17 june 2014 the court of cassation upheld the diyarbakır juvenile court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yerevan. in 1983 and 1988 the applicant was found guilty of indecent acts with minors and sentenced to prison sentences. who had stopped the applicant’s car for a violation of traffic laws. in the course of the investigation the applicant testified that v.s. and g.g. a forensic medical examination of the applicant was carried out, which found that he had suffered injuries, including concussion and a fractured cheek bone. thus, the applicant’s actions had been wrongly assessed as falling within the scope of article 316 § 1 of the cc, while no charges had been brought against the police officers. the lawyer requested the investigator that such charges be brought. on 16 february 2006 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan acquitted the applicant, finding that he was not guilty of the imputed offence. had exceeded their authority by acting violently against the applicant, which had caused serious damage and grave consequences to the applicant and his family. on 14 november 2006 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the appeals and upheld the judgment of the district court, finding that the applicant had acted in necessary self-defence. on 21 june 2005 the investigator had taken such a decision in respect of v.s. and g.g., on 27 november 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the courts, seeking to annul the investigator’s decision of 21 june 2005 as it contradicted the findings reached by the courts in his trial when assessing the actions of the police officers. furthermore, the prosecuting authority was obliged by law to take measures to restore his rights of its own motion. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. on 8 april 2009 the court of cassation found that the applicant had failed to show that he had valid reasons for missing the prescribed one-month time‑limit and decided to refuse the examination of the applicant’s appeal on points of law. on 26 november 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court decided to dismiss his claims. on 28 november 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal. on 7 march 2008 the civil court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the district court, finding that the applicant had already been compensated for pecuniary damage in relation to his convictions, while his new claims for pecuniary damages were unsubstantiated. on 29 july 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which was declared inadmissible for lack of merit by the court of cassation on 28 october 2008. on 26 december 2011 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan examined the applicant’s claim.
from 1 january 2001 the applicant concluded several consecutive fixed-duration contracts of employment with the company c.n.s. the contracts were for a continuous period which in total amounted to over seven years and seven months. on 5 june 2009 the applicant’s employer returned the applicant’s employment registration book to him, without any written or oral notification, showing that his employment had been terminated. on 20 july 2009 the applicant brought a civil action before the ivanić grad municipal court (općinski sud u ivanić gradu). he asked it to recognise that he had concluded an open-ended contract of employment, given that he had been in continuous employment with his employer for over three years, which was the time-limit for fixed-term employment contracts under the labour act. he also asked the municipal court to establish that his employment had not been terminated and to order his reinstatement. on 22 january 2010 the ivanić grad municipal court dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. upon an appeal by the applicant, on 16 february 2011 the velika gorica county court (županijski sud u velikoj gorici) quashed the first‑instance decision and remitted the case for fresh consideration. it held that the first-instance court should have declared the applicant’s claims inadmissible as time-barred, without examining it on the merits. the first-instance court, relying on section 133 of the labour act, held that the applicant and his employer had concluded a fixed-term contract lasting until 31 may 2009 and that the applicant must have known that his contract would end on that day. he had not concluded a new contract of employment with his employer and he had therefore been obliged to lodge an application for the protection of his rights with his employer within the fifteen-day time-limit, starting from 1 june 2009. however, he had failed to do so and consequently his claim had been lodged out of time. rejecting the applicant’s argument, the first‑instance court also held that the defendant company had not been obliged to adopt a formal decision on terminating his employment or to send him any other kind of notification, given that he must have known that his contract would come to an end on 31 may 2009. on 12 may 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the velika gorica county court. on 26 july 2011 the velika gorica county court upheld the first‑instance decision. on 14 november 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), which was dismissed as ill-founded on 25 september 2012. accordingly, his claim had been lodged out of time. in that decision the velika gorica county court, in accordance with instructions given in the supreme court’s decision no. namely, the supreme court had held that the claim had been of a declaratory nature and as such was not subject to deadlines. on 6 may 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in stari mikanovci. he suffered a work-related accident and became unable to work. on 26 april 1977 the osijek county court (okružni sud u osijeku) awarded the applicant a lump sum in compensation and ordered the defendant – hrvatske željeznice – to pay him monthly payments in respect of the difference between his disability pension and the salary he would have been earning were it not for his inability to work. on 5 may 1988 the vukovar municipal court (općinski sud u vukovaru) increased the above-mentioned monthly payments. at the same time, it established that the applicant’s inability to work was only 50% due to the above-mentioned accident, and 50% due to a pre-existing illness. on 24 december 1990 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against hrvatske željeznice, seeking that the above-mentioned monthly payments be increased on the grounds of changed circumstances. the vukovar municipal court commissioned a report from an accounting expert, and on 13 february 1991 the expert witness submitted his report. at a hearing held on 20 february 1991 the expert witness gave oral evidence. in the resumed proceedings, the first-instance court commissioned a report from an accounting expert and ordered the applicant to pay costs in advance in the sum of 696.55 croatian kunas (hrk). on 5 june 2003 the expert witness submitted his report and the defendant objected to the expert’s findings. he stated that he could not precisely determine individual amounts until the croatian pension fund adjusted the applicant’s pension. at a hearing held on 15 september 2005 the first-instance court commissioned a further report from an accounting expert, in accordance with the instruction given by the second-instance court. specifically, it ordered the expert witness, in calculating the monthly amount, to take into account the amount of 63.80 dinars which had already been awarded, as well as the fact that the defendant was 50% responsible for the damage at issue, and to establish whether the applicant had used his right to have his disability pension recalculated as an old-age pension when he had turned 60. meanwhile, the defendant split into four companies, and the first‑instance court ordered the applicant to correct his claim by accurately identifying the defendant. upon an appeal by the applicant, on 9 september 2008 the vukovar county court quashed the first-instance decision, because it held that the applicant had already identified the defendant. at a hearing on 3 february 2009 the applicant reiterated all the arguments and repeated that he had not been able to pay for the costs of the expert report. he asked the court to allow his claim as specified in his submissions of 16 february 2007. neither party put forward any new evidence. the court set aside its decision of 22 december 2008 regarding a further report from an accounting expert, because the applicant had failed to pay for the costs, and concluded the hearing. in its reasoning, the first-instance court stated that the vukovar county court, in its decision of 11 november 2008, had awarded the applicant hrk 20,000 for the violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time, and that he could have paid for the costs of the expert witness with that money.
the applicant was born in 1962 in jendouba, in the tunisian republic (“tunisia”), and lives in versoix in the canton of geneva. he alleges that he was then taken to tunis by tunisian officials. by his own account, he has never instituted proceedings against the italian authorities in respect of those events. the applicant submits that he suffers from a series of physical and psychological injuries and disorders. on 8 november 1995 the swiss authorities granted the applicant asylum. on 28 july 2003 the lawyer informed the applicant that this type of action had never been successful and advised him not to lodge such a claim. it was allegedly impossible to lodge a civil action of this sort in tunisia. by a judgment of 15 september 2005, the court of first instance declared the claim inadmissible on the grounds that it lacked territorial jurisdiction. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows:
“with regard to an action in tort based on the unlawful acts that were allegedly committed in tunisia by the defendants, to the claimant’s detriment, the swiss courts do not have territorial jurisdiction under international law to examine the complaint, given that the defendants are not domiciled or habitually resident in switzerland, and given also that no illegal act or detrimental outcome occurred in switzerland, pursuant to sections 2 and 129 of the ldip.” his appeal was rejected in a judgment of 15 september 2006. lastly, he referred, in very general terms, to article 16 of the united nations convention relating to the status of refugees (see paragraph 60 below). 3.3 in the absence of an ordinary forum, the problem must be addressed under section 3 of the ldip, which concerns the forum of necessity ... under the latter provision, where no forum is provided for in switzerland by the ldip and where proceedings in another country prove impossible or one cannot reasonable require that they be brought in that country, the swiss judicial or administrative authorities of the locality with which the case has a sufficient connection have jurisdiction. the application of this rule for assigning jurisdiction thus calls for three cumulative conditions to be met: firstly, the swiss authorities do not have jurisdiction under another provision; secondly, legal proceedings in another country are impossible or cannot reasonably be required; and, thirdly, the case in question has a sufficient connection with switzerland. however, section 3 lays down an exception to this principle. it is for the claimant or the appellant to demonstrate this impossibility. in this regard, the “cause” of the action is the basis of the claim [“base de la prétention”] (‘streitgrund” rather than “sachverhalt”), though it should be noted that the legal writers are in some disagreement as to the content and scope of that basis. in other words, it is the “cause” – which concerns the set of facts and the legal argumentation – rather than the person of the applicant which must have a sufficient connection with switzerland. in the present case, however, the claimant complains of acts of torture that were allegedly committed in tunisia, by tunisians resident in tunisia, against a tunisian residing in italy. the facts of the case thus have no connection with switzerland, so that the question of whether or not the link with this country is sufficient does not arise. lastly, the government informed the court that, according to information obtained by it from the swiss embassy in tunis, persons who considered themselves victims of the former regime had until 15 june 2016 to apply to the tdc.
the applicant company is a privately owned company registered in danilovgrad, montenegro. in july 2004 a call for tender for hotel “otrant” in montenegro was issued. the deadline for submitting bids was october 2004. together with three other companies, the applicant company took part in the tendering process. on 30 november 2004, however, it was informed that the tender was awarded to another bidder. on an unspecified date in december 2004, the applicant company objected to this decision. on 29 december 2004 the commercial court in podgorica (privredni sud u podgorici) rejected the applicant company’s objection. on 28 january 2006 the court of appeal quashed this decision and remitted the case to the first instance. on 15 june 2006 the commercial court ruled against the applicant company. this decision was served on the applicant company on 8 september 2009. on 26 march 2010 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the commercial court. the decision of the court of appeal was served on the applicant company’s lawyer on 27 april 2010. on 15 july 2010 the applicant company lodged an initiative urging the supreme public prosecutor’s office (vrhovno državno tužilaštvo) to file a request for the protection of legality (zahtjev za zaštitu zakonitosti), but this motion was rejected on 21 july 2010. on 30 july 2010 the applicant company lodged a constitutional appeal. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected this appeal as having been lodged out of time.
the applicants live in stobreč (application no. their statement of claim (tužba) read as follows:
“plots of land nos. evidence: extract from the cadastre, testimony of the witness n.p., evidence: see above
for these reasons it is proposed that the court, after having conducted the proceedings, adopt the following
judgment 1. by a judgment of 20 september 2004 the municipal court ruled in favour of the applicants. the applicants then, on 23 july 2007, lodged a constitutional complaint against the second-instance judgment alleging infringements of their constitutional rights to equality before the law, equality before the courts and fair procedure. ... in the instant case the court did not apply the cited provisions even though the plaintiffs’ predecessors had possessed [the property in question] since at least the beginning of the twentieth century and their possession had been continuous until the bringing of the civil action and lasts until the present day. in the civil proceedings ... it was established that ... the complainants ... had been in continuous exclusive possession of the disputed property since at least 1912 and in good faith. 866/35 (...) ...
evidence: [the three sale and purchase agreements between the plaintiffs and the above mentioned individuals]
the plaintiffs immediately, upon the conclusion of the above sale and purchase agreements entered into possession of all the immovable property listed above. the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows:
“in the response to the action the respondent denied the claim because the property in question had been [in] social ownership and because, pursuant to the constitutional court’s decision invalidating section 388(4) of the [1996 property act], possessing socially owned property in the period before 8 october 1991 cannot be taken into account in calculating the time-limit for acquiring title to property by adverse possession. the plaintiffs’ action evidently relies precisely on that. the respondent authority claimed that the lifting of that prohibition had not had retroactive effect (see paragraphs 11-15 above). in a decision of 15 september 2011, the constitutional court dismissed their constitutional complaint and on 4 october 2011 it served its decision on their representative. 1 to the convention and article 14 of the convention. (b)  the applicants’ observations in reply 36. yet, the split county court and the constitutional court had misapplied domestic law and dismissed their claim by holding that a period of forty years had been necessary to acquire ownership by adverse possession (see radomilja and others, cited above, § 46). in the alternative, the applicants in jakeljić argued that even if their predecessors had possessed the land in question since 1912, they should have acquired it by adverse possession before 6 april 1941 based on the above-mentioned interpretation requiring twenty years of possession in good faith (see paragraph 36 above and paragraph 58 below). “... the court has specified that the case of trgo v. croatia is relevant case-law [; this] case does not have the same factual and legal background as the present [one]. ...
besides, from the government submissions on the merits it follows that they do not comment on the fact ..., ... which is one of the grounds of this application, that in accordance with the [case-law of the] domestic courts the time-period necessary for acquiring ownership of immovable property in social ownership by adverse possession is 20 years, which has to elapse by 6 april 1941. in support of their arguments the government emphasised that in their reply the applicants admitted that section 388(4) of the 1996 property act (see paragraphs 56-57 below) as well as the constitutional court’s decision of 17 november 1999 (see paragraph 15 above) had no significance in their cases and expressly argued that the cases had a factual and legal background different from the trgo case (see radomilja and others, cited above, § 44, and jakeljić, cited above, § 38).
the applicant is an economics professor and a journalist in turkey. 668, issued on 27 july 2016 in connection with the state of emergency (see paragraphs 14-18 below). during the night of violence, more than 300 people were killed and more than 2,500 were injured. several criminal investigations were subsequently initiated by the appropriate prosecuting authorities in relation to suspected members of that organisation. on an unspecified date, the istanbul public prosecutor initiated a criminal investigation in respect of suspected members of fetö/pdy. in reply, the applicant stated that he did not know any turkish army officers and had no links to the attempted coup. it is not clear exactly when [it] will pull its hand out of the bag or how [it] will do so” (“türkiye devleti içinde de muhtemelen bütün bu gelişmeleri dış dünyada daha fazla belgeleyen, izleyen bir başka da yapı var. on various dates the applicant lodged further applications seeking his release pending trial. he sought the applicant’s conviction for the offences with which he was charged. during the criminal proceedings, the applicant denied having committed any criminal offence. the criminal proceedings are still ongoing in the national courts. lastly, it found that it was clear that the applicant’s pre-trial detention could have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and of the press, in so far as it had not been based on any concrete evidence other than his articles and statements (see paragraph 235 of the constitutional court’s judgment). with regard to the complaints concerning the lawfulness and duration of the applicant’s detention in police custody, the constitutional court held that he should have brought an action under article 141 § 1 (a) of the ccp but had refrained from doing so. accordingly, it declared these complaints inadmissible for failure to exhaust the appropriate remedies. concerning the applicant’s complaint that he had had no access to the investigation file, the constitutional court held that he had had sufficient means available to prepare his defence to the charges against him and challenge his pre-trial detention, in view of the contents of the detailed questions put to him during questioning by the public prosecutor and the magistrate, and the overall duration of the restriction on access to the case file. the constitutional court noted that the applicant and his lawyer had been present at the hearing on 22 september 2016, following which the applicant had been placed in pre-trial detention. on 12 january 2018 the applicant lodged an objection with a view to securing his release, submitting a copy of the constitutional court’s judgment of 11 january 2018 as published on the court’s website. 2016/23672 was not in compliance with the law. he pointed out that the only possible way for it to do so was to order the applicant’s release. on 30 january 2018 the applicant lodged a further individual application with the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in kharkiv, ukraine. on 29 december 2006 the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk, ukraine, ordered to arrest and bring the applicant to the court in order to determine the preventive measure during the investigation of his alleged robbery. the applicant’s name was put on the international list of wanted persons. on 26 september 2007 the applicant was arrested in moscow. as the applicant was a russian national, he was released. on 14 october 2007 the ukrainian authorities sought the applicant’s extradition from russia in relation to the criminal proceedings against him. on 21 december 2007 the russian federal migration authority concluded that the applicant had fraudulently obtained his russian passport by falsifying a number of documents. they ordered to seize his passport and put his name on the federal wanted list. the applicant’s subsequent attempts to challenge the federal migration authority’s decision on his russian passport were unsuccessful. on 13 may 2008 the applicant was arrested. on 24 june 2008 a district prosecutor decided that the applicant should be “placed in custody” considering that the decision of the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk of 29 december 2006 authorised “placement into custody”, as required under article 466 § 2 of the russian code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”). on several occasions the applicant unsuccessfully complained about his detention to the prosecuting authorities. on 4 september 2008 the perovskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint considering that his arrest and detention in relation to the ukrainian extradition request had been and remained lawful. on 24 november 2008 the moscow city court upheld this decision of 4 september 2008 concluding that “matters relating to lawfulness and reasons for detention should be raised under another procedure prescribed by law”. on 3 october 2008 the russian prosecutor general’s office granted the extradition request. on 18 november 2008 the moscow city court confirmed the decision of 3 october 2008. on 29 january 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 18 november 2008 on appeal. on 20 may 2009 the applicant was transferred to the ukrainian authorities in the town of kharkov. on 26 may 2009 he was transferred to the town of dnepropetrovsk. on 6 june 2009 a ukrainian court refused to order the applicant’s detention pending the investigation.
the applicant was born in 1929 and lives in st petersburg. on 2 february 2001 the town court dismissed the claims. on 23 april 2001 this decision was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) (“the supreme court”). on 26 january 2006, upon the applicant’s supervisory review appeal, the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 2 february 2001 and the decision of 11 may 2005 as it found that the lower courts misjudged the facts of the case and erred in application of the national law. on 12 february 2007 the supreme court found the decision of 18 december 2006 to award the applicant money unlawful and unreasoned, quashed the decision and yet again remitted the case for a new examination. twice, on 26 april 2007 and 7 september 2007, the town court dismissed the applicant’s claims. each time, on 18 july 2007 and 19 may 2008, respectively, the judgment of the town court was set aside on appeal, and the case was remitted for a new examination. in the second set of the proceedings, the appellate court found that the applicant had not been duly summoned to the hearing, and that the municipality should have been joined to the proceedings as a defendant rather than a third party. on 23 september 2008 the town court granted the applicant’s claims in part. it ordered the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) to pay the applicant rub 1,812,838.10 from the federal budget funds allocated for the housing subsidies for persons leaving the high north regions. on 17 november 2008 the judgment of 23 september 2008 was upheld on appeal by the supreme court. on 10 february 2010 a writ of execution was issued. on 13 april and 8 june 2011 respectively the writ of execution was returned to the applicant as the debtor had no accounts at these bodies. on 24 august 2011 the head of the bailiffs’ service ordered to set aside the above decision to open the enforcement proceedings. on 8 february 2012 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 september 2008. on an unspecified date the applicant on one more occasion sent the writ of execution to the department of the federal treasury. on 10 july 2012 the bailiffs’ service received the writ of execution and opened the enforcement proceedings. on 10 september 2012 the enforcement proceedings were terminated for the debtor had no property that the debt could be recovered from. the judgment of 23 september 2008 remained unenforced. on 29 november 2010 the applicant lodged a claim under the compensation act (see the domestic law part below).
the applicant is a journalist who had been working since 2002 for the daily newspaper zaman, which was viewed as the principal publication medium of the “gülenist” network and was closed down following the adoption of legislative decree no. 668, issued on 27 july 2016 in connection with the state of emergency (see paragraphs 14-18 below). from 2001 onwards, he also lectured on comparative politics and turkish political history at a private university in istanbul. during the night of violence, more than 300 people were killed and more than 2,500 were injured. several criminal investigations were subsequently initiated by the appropriate prosecuting authorities in relation to suspected members of that organisation. the magistrate questioned the applicant about his alleged acts and the accusations against him. at the end of the hearing, the magistrate, taking into account the contents of the articles written by the applicant – and finding that they had promoted the terrorist organisation in question, even after 17 december 2013 – ordered his pre-trial detention. he noted in that connection that although criminal proceedings had been instituted against e.d. ( in his decision, the magistrate stated in particular that it was an established fact that in order to prepare the ground for a military coup, the instigators needed to create the perception that the leaders of the country concerned were dictators. as evidence, he produced six articles written by the applicant in 2013 and 2014. during the criminal proceedings, the applicant denied having committed any criminal offence. on 8 september 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. in a decision of 26 october 2016 the constitutional court refused to apply an interim measure of that kind. it added that should there be a change in his health or the conditions of his detention, he would be entitled to make a further application for an interim measure to secure his release. on 11 january 2018 the constitutional court gave a judgment (no. lastly, it found that it was clear that the applicant’s pre-trial detention could have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and of the press, in so far as it had not been based on any concrete evidence other than his articles (see paragraph 140 of the constitutional court’s judgment). the applicant did not submit a claim for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the constitutional court found no causal link between the violation established and the damage alleged on that account and dismissed the claim. however, noting that the constitutional court’s judgments were final and binding on the assize court, he expressed the view that the applicant’s release should be ordered. on 12 january 2018 the applicant lodged an objection with a view to securing his release.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in naxxar. on 6 may 2007 dr michael falzon (referred to hereinafter as m.f., who chose to speak about a pending police investigation, about an anonymous email that i received and about a threatening letter that i received... this is a level which should not be acceptable in our country. i will tell you what i told him...and he will confirm it. a journalist], this person phoned me yesterday as well, told me ‘but you know, this is an innocuous email, it contains nothing.’ and k.s.n said other things as well, and so did s.b. [ but yesterday i told the cop, and inspector c., that such discourse had long been doing the rounds at the centre [party club]. the police force, i believe, is simply responsible for making sure that people obey the law, for protecting people and property and for arresting criminals. other relevant parts of the article, read as follows:
“i say this with deep regret, but i can only be seriously perturbed by the ease with which mlp deputy leader michael falzon [m.f.] ...
“yet the ease with which the mlp deputy leader phones him up to complain, and ‑ even worse ‑ the ease with which this leading politician is provided with a service that cannot be linked in any way with the pursuit of ‘criminality’ ‑ as we know it ‑ makes one wonder.” by way of defence the applicant claimed that (a) the published article had contained his opinion and had consequently constituted a fair comment and the expression of a value judgment, (b) any facts had been substantially correct and based on what had been declared publicly by m.f. during the proceedings the court of magistrates heard the testimony of the plaintiff (m.f.), had showed him a letter which the cop considered to be “injurious and full of threats” towards m.f.; the court referred to the cop’s witness testimony to explain the factual situation. - the editor testified that in his opinion the speech delivered by the deputy leader of the mlp indicated that the latter had put pressure on the cop to investigate the matter when he had met up with him to discuss the emails and the anonymous letters. had exercised influence over the cop with the aim of controlling people’s freedom; the attack on m.f. he further claimed that the ordinary courts had referred to insinuations and allegations which had not been made or implied by the applicant in his article, such as the statement by the court of magistrates to the effect that m.f. by a judgment of 30 march 2012 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence dismissed the applicant’s claims. was that he had taken advantage of his political position to put pressure on the police in order that the latter would take action in persecuting an innocent citizen. by a judgment of 11 january 2013 the constitutional court dismissed his appeal.
68125/14 (wetjen) are a mother and father and their son, born in 2011. 72204/15 (schott) are a mother and father and their three daughters, born in 1999, 2002 and 2004 respectively. furthermore, statements by a former member of the community were published, confirming that children had been punished with rods. on 16 august 2013 the local youth office and the nördlingen family court received video footage from a television reporter showing ten different instances of corporal punishment in the community. none of the applicants was shown in the video footage. the court also ordered that the youth office, when taking the children into care, could have recourse to compulsion, request support from the police and be permitted to enter the premises of the twelve tribes community in klosterzimmern. the applicant children were subsequently examined but no physical signs of abuse or beating were revealed. the mother had been ordered to wean her son two months beforehand. however, since she refused, the son was taken from her by force. the family court examined the applicant parents on 10 october 2013. the court based its assessment on the submissions of the parents, in which they had confirmed that they had disciplined their son. the court found that the statements by other children in parallel proceedings, the video footage and the statements of other witnesses confirmed that the disciplining of children in the community would include corporal punishment. it held that even if the parents might be able to resist pressure from the community, they would not be able to ensure that other community members would not cane the child when supervising him. on 5 march 2014 the munich court of appeal upheld the family court’s decision in essence. the applicant parents were examined on 15 november 2013. in the beginning of december 2013 the oldest daughter was returned to her parents. 68125/14 (see paragraph 18 above) the court also noted that caning was not justified by the parent’s freedom of religion and that there had been no other option entailing less of an infringement of the family’s rights. on 5 may 2014 the federal constitutional court refused to accept a constitutional complaint by the applicants for adjudication, without providing reasons (1 bvr 959/14). the appeal by the applicants in application no. 68125/14 was declared inadmissible by the court of appeal on 4 june 2014 for being belated.
11308/16 (tlapak) are a mother and father. their two daughters a. and b. were born on 7 october 2009 and their son g. was born on 23 may 2013. according to the television reporter, the person who carried out the punishment was not, in most cases, a parent of the child being punished. on 3 september 2013 the ansbach family court, upon an application by the competent youth office, made an interlocutory order regarding all children in the twelve tribes community in wörnitz, including the applicants’ children. the applicants’ children were subsequently examined but no physical signs of abuse or beating were revealed. j. tlapak was subsequently placed in a foster family. since g. pingen was then only one year and four months old and was also still being breastfed, he and his mother were placed together in a foster family. on 13 september 2013 the ansbach family court heard the applicants and on 23 september 2013 it upheld its order of 3 september 2013 in an interim decision. overall, it was in the child’s best interests to place him away from his parents to protect him from the applicants’ parenting methods, which were dangerous for the child. on 4 august 2014, the family court forwarded the privately commissioned expert opinion to the court-appointed expert, who responded to the criticism and gave details of his methodology in a letter of 15 august 2014. based, in particular, on the court‑commissioned expert opinion and the statements by the applicants during the court proceedings, the court concluded that there was a high, concrete probability that the son would be subjected to corporal punishment using physical objects over the course of several years. throughout the course of the proceedings the applicants had unreservedly advocated their parenting style and had refused to accept the opinion that the type of corporal punishment they endorsed was covered by the ban on violence under article 1631 of the civil code. allowing parents to reject expert opinions they disagreed with by retrospectively withdrawing consent to an examination would prevent any effective protection of children in family court proceedings. the court emphasised that not all individual violations of the right to a non-violent upbringing under article 1631 § 2 of the civil code (see paragraph 54 below) could justify a withdrawal of parental authority. beatings as such, the court held, constituted child abuse and misuse of parental authority. he expected that such methods would likely result in psychological issues. overall, it was in the best interests of the children to place them away from their parents. the severe interference with the applicants’ right to a family under article 6 of the basic law (see paragraph 53 below) by separating them from their children was nonetheless not only justified but also proportionate since the risk to the children could not be averted using milder means. besides the problem of detecting corporal punishment through unannounced visits by the youth office (see paragraph 30 above), the court also pointed out that the applicants had consistently, over the course of the proceedings, shown a lack of willingness to cooperate with the youth office and had refused to accept state schools, both of which the court found necessary to prevent degrading corporal punishment and ensure the children’s autonomous development. in the court’s opinion, the applicants were only prepared to refrain temporarily from corporal punishment.
at the time of the events he was a district police officer in the kalyninskyy district police in horlivka. the fourth applicant, the mother of the first applicant, was born in 1948 and died on 5 december 2010. they met two colleagues of m. and stopped to talk with them. however, having approached her, he realised that he had been mistaken. she was diagnosed with several bruises on her neck and situational neurosis. those injuries, assessed as insignificant, had resulted from “contact with blunt objects” at the time indicated by the second applicant. on 9 october 2008 a forensic medical expert examination report was issued. on an unspecified date (illegible in the available copy) the kalyninskyy prosecutor’s office sent a summons to the first applicant at his registered residence (his mother’s home), instructing him to come to the prosecutor’s office on 5 september 2008. he therefore sought that the kalyninskyy prosecutor withdraw from the case. on 29 september 2008 the chief of medicine of horlivka hospital informed the investigator, in reply to the latter’s enquiry, that the last time the first applicant had come to the hospital had been 15 september 2008 and that the hospital administration did not know how he could be reached. on 25 march 2009 the first applicant complained to the pgo that his numerous requests for the kalyninskyy prosecutor to withdraw had been ignored. the investigator drew up a report on the explanation to the first applicant of his procedural rights. on 1 august 2013 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters quashed the appellate court’s ruling of 6 march 2012 in the part concerning the first applicant’s conviction (the part concerning the remittal of the case to the first-instance court remained in force) and remitted the case for fresh appellate examination. as she and her husband refused to cooperate, the police left. its ruling was identical to that delivered on 11 september 2008 (see paragraph 60 above). according to the third applicant, it had been planted by the police. on 7 october 2008 the kalyninskyy court allowed another application to search the first applicant’s registered residence (the flat of the fourth applicant) given that the investigator had information that the first applicant might be hiding there. on 11 february 2009 the police conducted a search of the fourth applicant’s flat on the basis of the court ruling of 7 october 2008. the third and fourth applicants also complained many times to the prosecution authorities of the unlawfulness of the searches. they submitted, in particular, that the police had been rude and intrusive, that the attesting witnesses had not been independent, and that it was not clear what the police had actually been looking for.
the applicant was born in 1965 and is currently detained in czarne prison in poland. between 14 september 2010 and 24 january 2011 he had been detained in block 5, which accommodated remand prisoners. following his conviction and sentence he had been transferred to block 2b, where he had been detained between 24 january 2011 and 5 october 2011. (a)  block 5: 14 september 2010-24 january 2011 11. block 5 included block 5a, which had twenty-three double occupancy cells of the same size as block 5, accommodating forty-three remand prisoners. at the time the applicant had been detained there block 2b had not yet been renovated. m, which accommodated five to seven detainees, and a common room which had been made into a dormitory for between twenty and fifty inmates. block 2b had six toilets and six showers. based on the daily occupancy records for the relevant period, the number of inmates in the block varied from 80 to 124 per day. the government stated that it was possible that the applicant had spent time in all the different types of cells in this block during his detention. m of personal space; in the larger cell he would have had from approximately 2.8 to 3.9 sq. if the applicant had been held in the dormitory in early spring or during the winter (see paragraph 49 below), he would have disposed of between 2.04 and 3.2 sq. (c)  block 2a: 5 october 2011-18 may 2012 14. there were six toilets, six showers and three urinals. (d)  additional information regarding the general conditions in the blocks 15. the various parts of the prison were equipped with a central heating system which covered all the blocks and cells. all the cells had properly insulated windows, which provided natural light and ventilation. the administration of the prison had issued order no. 32/2008 concerning prisoners having access to the toilet facilities whenever necessary. according to a letter by the prison director dated 27 february 2014, records were not kept of when cells were opened for toilet visits during the night, that is between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. however, a detainee could leave his cell for up to three toilet visits during that period.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in moscow. he is a former fsb (russian security service) officer. ik-13 in nizhniy tagil, sverdlovsk region, located approximately 1,800 km away from his family home in moscow. the government did not submit a copy of this decision. on 31 august 2005 the prosecutor asked the district court to reinstate the requisite time-limit to permit him to appeal against the decision of 19 august 2005, noting that he had received a copy thereof only five days after its delivery. the court relied on the relevant provision of the rules of criminal procedure which provided for such reinstatement if there had been a delay of at least five days before a party to the proceedings had received a copy of the impugned decision. on 18 september 2005 a group of police officers broke arrested the applicant in his flat in moscow. ik-13 and was placed in a disciplinary cell. on 24 november 2005 the district court re-examined the applicant’s application for parole and dismissed it. on 15 march 2006 the regional court upheld the decision of 24 november 2005 on appeal. on 30 september 2005 he was transferred to one of the dormitories. the cell was equipped with both natural and artificial ventilation. he was allowed two hours’ exercise per day in a specially designated area. there was a tank with boiled potable water. the distance between the toilet and the dining table/nearest sleeping place was at least 1.5 m. hygiene and food provision both met the statutory standards. 8 measured 2.5 m by 3.5 m and housed between 3 and 7 inmates. a large part of the cell was occupied by a cupboard where mattresses and pillows were stored during the daytime. there was no place to keep personal belongings. in the summer, the cell was very hot and humid and the ventilation did not work. the daily outdoor exercise lasted between fifteen and forty minutes.
the applicant, mr sergey marksovich dudin, is a russian national, who was born in 1962 and lives in parfino, novgorod region. he is represented before the court by mr k. v. pakin, a lawyer practising in velikiy novgorod. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. on 23 july 2007 the applicant was apprehended by police at the cargo terminal “shushary” in saint petersburg under suspicion of robbery. later that day he was transferred to krestsy, novgorod region. on 25 july 2007 the krestetskiy district court of novgorod region (the district court) ordered pre-trial detention of the applicant. subsequently the period of the applicant’s detention was extended on 20 september and 2 november 2007. in the order of 2 november 2007 the district court authorised extension of the applicant’s detention “until and including 24 december 2007”. to keep the measure of mr dudin’s restraint – pre-trial detention – unchanged.” on 25 december 2007 between 10.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. the district court held a preliminary hearing ordering the criminal case to be send to trial and the applicant’s further detention. during the hearing the applicant and his representative raised the objection regarding unlawfulness of the applicant’s detention between 24 december 2007 and the time of the hearing, but the district court dismissed it without advancing any specific reasons in this regard. on 21 february 2008 the novgorod regional court upheld the lower court’s decision. on 27 may 2008 the district court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment. on 2 march 2011 the applicant was released before serving his full sentence on probation. the applicant lodged a civil action against the ministry of finance of the russian federation seeking non-pecuniary damages for his allegedly unlawful detention without a court order between 24 and 25 december 2007. on 24 april 2008 the novgorodskiy town court of novgorod region found that between midnight 24 december 2007 and 11.00 a.m. on 25 december 2007 the applicant’s detention was unlawful and violated his rights under article 22 of the russian constitution and article 5 § 1 of the convention. the representative of the ministry of the interior (intervening in the proceedings) admitted that the authorisation for the detention expired on 24 december 2007. the representative of the regional prosecutor’s office (also intervening in the proceedings) maintained that the applicant’s detention was lawful, but stated that any detention without a court order would be unlawful. on 11 june 2008 the novgorod regional court annulled the lower court’s judgment on appeal and adopted a new judgment dismissing the applicant’s claims. the regional court argued that while the order of 2 november 2007 set the period of detention “until and including 24 december 2007”, the decision of 11 december 2007 to schedule a preliminary hearing to 25 december 2007 essentially ordered the detention until that date, because it left it “unchanged” (see paragraph 6 above).
the applicant was born in 1977 and lived in naberezhniye chelny, tatarstan republic, before his conviction of an unrelated criminal offence. on 7 april 2008 the applicant notified the executive committee of naberezhniye chelny of his intention to hold a public event in the form of a hunger strike in front of the local prosecutor’s office beginning from 21 april 2008. on the same day the applicant was informed that his notice did not comply with the requirements of the law. on 17 april 2008 the head of the public relations department of the local executive committee informed the applicant that his planned public event amounted to a “picket” within the meaning of the public events act (hereinafter “pea”). the applicant was required to align his notice with the pea in that connection but, according to the government, he failed to do so. according to the government, on 22 april 2008 at 3.15 p.m. the applicant set up on the lawn in front of the prosecutor’s office a tent and a poster reading “hunger strike. he gathered passers-by and voiced his claims to them. it is unclear whether the applicant was arrested by the police or otherwise deprived of his liberty at any moment prior to appearing before the justice of the peace. the police ordered him to terminate this allegedly unlawful public event, but he refused. they compiled an administrative offence record, stating that the applicant had committed an offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the cao; they also compiled an administrative arrest record (протокол административного задержания). on 24 april 2008 the justice of the peace of the 8th court circuit of naberezhniye chelny found the applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the cao and imposed a fine of 1,000 russian roubles ((rub), equivalent to 27 euros (eur) at the time). call for signatures” as well as by gathering passers-by and “campaigning” among them. in breach of the pea he had failed to specify his arrangements for preventing disorder or providing medical aid during the event. moreover, the applicant had intended to hold a twenty-four-hour picket in breach of the pea’s ban on public events between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the court concluded that the applicant breached the procedure for the organisation of his public event. by a decision of 7 may 2008 the town court upheld the judgment of the justice of the peace. the court sentenced him to seven days of administrative detention. the applicant’s detention from 9 p.m. on 22 april to 3.35 p.m. on 24 april 2008 counted towards his sentence of administrative detention. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the naberezhniye chelny town court. on 3 june 2008 the applicant lodged a supervisory-review appeal against the judgment of 7 may 2008. on 8 july 2008 the deputy president of the supreme court of the tatarstan republic dismissed it, fully endorsing the findings of the lower courts.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in viana do castelo (portugal). the applicant is a lawyer by training and an auditor by profession. this decision was published in the official gazette in june 2000. when the applicant ceased his activity as an auditor in april 2016, he continued to be suspended from the bar council’s roll until at least the end of 2016 as the result of a disciplinary sanction imposed on him for having practised as a lawyer while not being authorised to do so. he also sought leave to replace his officially appointed defence counsel and represent himself. the court held that under the provisions of portuguese law, in particular article 32 of the constitution and articles 64 § 3 and 287 § 4 of the ccp (see paragraphs 28, 33 and 40 below), the defendant had the right to be represented by independent counsel, a right which would not be made effective if self-representation were to be allowed. it considered the appeal to be admissible despite the fact that it had been lodged by the applicant in person, as it concerned the very issue whether the applicant, as the defendant, was entitled to conduct his own defence. it required that the defendant be assisted by defence counsel at the hearing before the investigating judge and at the trial in all cases where the proceedings concerned could give rise to a custodial sentence or a public-safety detention order. this reflected the premise that the accused would be better defended when the defence was conducted by a legal professional trained in advocacy. the law on criminal procedure was thus intended not to place limits on the defence’s action, but to support the proper defence of the accused. on 11 may 2012 the constitutional court decided that it was not necessary to adjudicate on the constitutional appeal lodged by the applicant in person, in which he had complained about the lower courts’ refusal to grant him leave to represent himself. the constitutional court found that the appeal had been neither signed nor endorsed by court-appointed defence counsel. the applicant failed to attend the hearing, at which his court-appointed counsel was present. the applicant, who at no point requested legal aid to cover the cost of his trial, court-appointed counsel or counsel of his own choosing, was ordered, in particular, to pay costs amounting to eur 150 for his representation by court-appointed counsel. it confirmed that, as had previously been decided in a final decision, the applicant, as the defendant, did not have the right to represent himself in the proceedings. by an order dated 18 november 2014 the porto court of appeal, acting through its president, dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant in person against the order of the baixo-vouga criminal court. it stressed that, as had also been argued by the general council of the bar association in opinion no. likewise, this approach was not in breach of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) or of the convention. the court of appeal explained that portuguese law on criminal procedure granted accused persons ample opportunity to defend themselves in person. according to the material before the court, the applicant did not call into question the qualifications or quality of the court-appointed lawyer at any stage in the proceedings before the domestic courts.
the applicant was born in 1963 and currently lives in alexandria (egypt). the customs authorities immediately seized the eur 560,000. in his defence, the applicant explained that he and his wife had been visiting her daughter in serbia who had recently had a serious attack of epilepsy, and submitted documentary evidence suggesting that his wife’s daughter did indeed suffer from epilepsy. the money he had been carrying originated from: (a) a company called sci (société civile immobilière) m. registered in france, of which he was the director and the only member, from whose account he had withdrawn eur 326,008.03 with a view to starting another business; and (b) the sale of their house in france (the remaining amount). the applicant submitted relevant documents as evidence of those transactions. he also explained that he had not wished to deposit the money in a bank account because, in the wake of the global financial crisis of 2007-2008, he had been afraid that his bank would go bankrupt and that he would lose most of that money, given that the french state only guaranteed up to eur 50,000 of bank deposits. during the proceedings the ministry requested information from the relevant authorities in serbia, france and italy. while the italian authorities did not reply at all, the serbian authorities informed the ministry that neither the applicant nor his wife had been recorded in their register of suspicious transactions, and the french authorities only confirmed the authenticity of the transactions on which the applicant relied to prove the origin of the money he had been carrying. by a decision of 9 july 2010 the ministry found the applicant guilty of having committed the administrative offence in question and fined him 5,000 croatian kunas (hrk). at the same time, the ministry imposed a protective measure (zaštitna mjera) confiscating eur 318,500 under section 69(2) of the foreign currency act. the ministry held that the origin of the money which the applicant had failed to declare was irrelevant in relation to the commission of the offence of which he had been convicted or the imposition of the fine. as regards the remaining eur 318,500 (of the eur 560,000 which had been seized), the ministry held that this sum was part of the funds which the applicant had withdrawn from his company’s bank account (eur 326,008.03) on 20 january 2010 (see paragraph 11 above). it therefore decided to confiscate that sum. by a decision of 17 september 2010 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ministry’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. the applicant then, on 17 december 2010, lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of his constitutionally protected right of ownership. therefore, the constitutional court had been unable to examine the merits of his constitutional complaint. the relevant domestic and international law and practice is summarised in the case of boljević v. croatia, no. under french law, a société civile immobilière (sci) is a civil (non‑commercial) company constituted for the ownership and management of real estate (articles 1845 to 1870-1 of the french civil code). it is a legal entity, meaning it has a legal personality distinct from that of its members. the members are, however, liable for the debts of the company without limitation, meaning that they may be liable in relation to their personal assets (article 1857 of the french civil code).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in yerevan. on 10 january 2005 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered a search of the applicant’s apartment. on 23 june 2005 the investigator decided to confiscate for security the applicant’s property. on 8 and 29 december 2005 respectively the investigator ordered forensic handwriting examinations to be conducted. the results of these examinations were received on 13 and 20 january 2006 respectively. on 7 march 2006 the investigator decided to amend the applicant’s charges and to bring new charges against him under article 178 §§ 2 (2) and 3 (1), article 182 § 3 (2), article 213 § 2 (1) and (2), and article 349 § 1 of the cc on account of fraud in large and particularly large amounts, extortion in particularly large amounts, usury performed as a profession which resulted in dire financial consequences for the injured parties, and forgery of evidence. however, upon an appeal by the prosecutor, on 28 march 2006 the court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months. on 29 and 30 march and 13 april 2006 the investigator lodged applications with the district court for a search warrant and to confiscate information covered by bank secrecy. these applications were granted on 29 and 31 march and 13 april 2006. on 14 july 2006 the supervising prosecutor approved the bill of indictment and the case was sent to the district court, which took it over on 24 july 2006. by the district court’s decision of 18 august 2006 the case was set for trial. on three occasions the court decided to have the absent witnesses and/or victims brought by force to the hearing. on 9 july 2007 the district court granted an application by the applicant’s counsel to have him released on bail. on 1 november 2007 another judge took over the case and the examination of the case started anew. in addition, on thirty-five occasions the hearings were adjourned because of the absence of the victims or witnesses or because of applications lodged by them, and on thirty-two occasions because the prosecutor’s applications had been granted or because the court had decided to adjourn the case of its own motion. on 28 august 2009 and 12 october 2010 respectively the prosecutor decided to amend the charges and/or to bring new charges against the applicant. it appears that during the proceedings the district court examined forty-seven witnesses, about thirty pieces of documentary evidence and five expert opinions, one of which was ordered by the district court. the applicant and the prosecutor appealed against this judgment. on 3 october 2011 the criminal court of appeal rejected the appeals and upheld the district court’s judgment. the applicant’s counsel lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bijela (montenegro). died on an unknown date between 2001 and 2002. on 14 august 2002 the applicant’s husband m.z., seeking to have the contract for the exchange of the houses declared null and void and to obtain the possession of the house in dubrovnik. had not had the necessary authorisation to sign such a contract. he further alleged that the contract had been signed under duress because of circumstances arising from the war in croatia. indicated the value of the subject matter of the dispute (vrijednost predmeta spora) at 10,000 croatian kunas (hrk) (approximately eur 1,300 at the time). a first hearing in the case was held on 3 march 2003. a lawyer practising in dubrovnik (who is also representing the applicant in the current proceedings before the court). on the basis that there were no grounds for declaring the contract null and void. who would in future be represented by the applicant (his wife). the respondents also opposed the request for an injunction. finally, they objected to the change of the value of the subject matter of the dispute, arguing that it had been increased only in order to enable the claimant to lodge an appeal on points of law. at a hearing on 13 september 2005 the municipal court examined the materials available in the file, following which it concluded the hearing. ’s claim and the request for an injunction. on 12 december 2005 the first-instance court ordered m.z. by judgment of 1 october 2009 the dubrovnik county court (županijski sud u dubrovniku; hereafter: “the county court”) dismissed an appeal by m.z. later on, at the hearing of 6 april 2005, the claimant’s representative indicated the value of the subject matter of the dispute at 105,000 croatian kunas considering that it had been indicated too low in the civil action. however, the claimant did not amend the claim at the same time. by a decision of 10 november 2011 the constitutional court summarily declared a constitutional complaint by the applicant, complaining, inter alia, of a lack of access to the supreme court, inadmissible on the grounds that the case raised no constitutional issues.
the applicant is a legal entity, a local community of the christian baptist church in the republic of poland operating on the basis of the act of 30 june 1995 on relations between the republic of poland and the christian baptist church act (ustawa o stosunku państwa polskiego do kościola chrześcijan baptystów w rp – hereinafter “the 1995 act”) with its seat in wrocław. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the case concerns a property with a four-storey building and another building dedicated to sacral purposes in wrocław. in 1956 the applicant church lodged a request to be registered in the land and mortgage register as the owner of the property and the request was granted. the property was registered under the number 945. the order did not concern the part of the property which was dedicated exclusively to sacral purposes. on 19 august 1966 a new land-register entry 35905 was opened for the property no. the land-register entry 945 was however not closed. it appears that the plot number 9 constituted only a part of the previous property number 1077/42 and comprised only the building dedicated to sacral purposes. it relied on the newly enacted 1995 act (see paragraphs 47-50 below). on 12 september 1996 the wrocław governor refused to issue a decision which would confirm that the property in question belonged to the applicant church. after remittal of the case, on 24 march 1999, the governor of lower silesia (wojewoda dolnośląski) asked the wrocław commune whether there was any property available which could be granted to the applicant church in return for the property in question. it appears that the governor’s letter was left without reply. on 20 june 2000 the minister replied that, since the administrative authorities were bound by provisions of law binding on the day of decision, it was irrelevant that the applicant church’s original request had been lodged when section 4 of the 1995 act had had different wording. on 30 april 2001 the governor stayed the proceedings. on 12 march 2002 the supreme administrative court examined the applicant church’s complaint against the inactivity of the administrative authority and ordered the governor of lower silesia to issue a decision on the merits within the time-limit of thirty days. on 12 july 2002 the applicant church appealed. on 23 february 2003 the applicant church complained to the governor about the delay in the proceedings. on 11 march 2008 the applicant church lodged a complaint with the warsaw regional administrative court. on 13 october 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant church’s complaint.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in varna. the applicant and his wife divorced on 21 august 2006 pursuant to a court-approved agreement between the two of them. under the terms of this agreement, the applicant undertook to pay child support to the two children born during the marriage and agreed to his wife’s keeping his family name after the divorce. subsequently, the applicant learned that his former wife had conceived their second child, born in 2003, as a result of a relationship with another man during her marriage to the applicant. the applicant underwent a dna test to determine whether he was the father of the younger child. the dna test ‒ the result of which the applicant received on 15 january 2007 ‒ established that he was not the biological father of the second child. the results of this dna test were never considered by a court. shortly thereafter, in february 2007, the applicant brought a civil claim in court, seeking to contest his paternity of the child in question. on 1 march 2007 the varna regional court dismissed his request, finding that it was time-barred due to the expiry – in 2004 – of the year-long limitation period counting from the child’s birth or from learning thereof (see the section “relevant domestic law and practice” below”). this finding was confirmed by two higher judicial instances, the final decision being pronounced by the supreme court of cassation on 19 september 2007. the applicant brought subsequent proceedings in which he sought to stop paying child support to the second child. on 20 may 2008 his claim was rejected by the varna district court, which found that it had not been proven that the applicant was not the child’s father, given that he had not rebutted the legal presumption under article 32 (1) of the family code 1985 (“the 1985 code”).
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in stara zagora. criminal proceedings were brought against him. by judgment of 22 may 2003 the stara zagora regional court found the applicant guilty of the unlawful possession of 14.44 grams of cannabis and sentenced him to three-and-a-half years’ imprisonment. the applicant was released on 7 april 2004, having spent one year, seven months and eight days in pre-trial detention. on 23 september 2004 the applicant filed with the sofia city court an action for damages based on section 2(6) of the law on state responsibility for damages against the stara zagora regional court, the plovdiv court of appeal, the supreme court of cassation and the public prosecutor’s office. an initial hearing was held on 30 november 2004 before the sofia city court. at the hearing on 11 october 2005 the representative of the plovdiv court of appeal, judge n.d., presented a copy of the judgment delivered on 3 october 2005 by the stara zagora regional court (see paragraph 27 below), and invited the sofia city court to adjourn the civil case until the end of the second set of criminal proceedings against the applicant. by judgment of 24 october 2006 the sofia city court dismissed the applicant’s claims. the applicant appealed to the sofia court of appeal. it further noted that the criminal courts had also deduced from the combined sentence the period of one year seven months which the applicant had spent in pre-trial detention during the first set of criminal proceedings, and found that therefore the length of the applicant’s detention had not exceeded the sentence imposed on him. an appeal on points of law lay against that judgment, but the applicant did not avail himself of that option. nevertheless, the president of the trial court, who was also acting as judge rapporteur, decided to withdraw from the case on the grounds that he had sat on the trial bench which had previously convicted the applicant (see paragraphs 6-13 above). the regional court examined the criminal case of drug-trafficking between 10 january and 3 october 2005. it gathered material evidence and heard a number of experts and prosecution and defence witnesses. the court refused to summon two defence witnesses and to put specific questions to the prosecution witnesses as being irrelevant to the establishment of the facts. the plovdiv court of appeal examined the criminal case in a public hearing held on 23 january 2005. that court heard a witness and accepted new written evidence presented by the defence. by judgment of 16 november 2006 the supreme court of cassation set aside the 25 january 2006 judgment of the plovdiv court of appeal, reduced the applicant’s sentence to three years’ imprisonment, combined the latter with the sentence imposed during the first set of criminal proceedings and deducted the period spent in pre-trial detention during the first set of criminal proceedings. accordingly, the applicant only had in fact to serve a seventeen-month prison sentence.
the applicants were born in 1985, 1988 and 1984 respectively. the first and second applicants live in moscow. at 3.30 p.m. on the same day the local prosecutor’s office opened criminal proceedings against the applicants. their unlawful actions had been interrupted by the police. she also read the prosecutor’s applications for remand. no other documents were examined at the hearings. on the same day the applicants prepared their preliminary appeal submissions against the detention orders and asked the detention facility administration to dispatch them. it follows from a document issued by the detention facility administration that the first applicant’s submissions were dispatched on 14 march 2007. however, the submissions by the second and third applicants were not dispatched until 23 march 2007. on 20 march 2007 counsel for the applicants lodged additional appeal submissions. on the same day counsel asked for permission to study the case-file. their request was however rejected because the case file had been taken by the judge who was currently on leave. however, it was not until 6 april 2007 that counsel were ultimately granted access to the case file. on 9 april 2007 counsel lodged additional appeal submissions in which they complained about the belated access to the case file. the evidence showing the existence of the risks of absconding, reoffending or interfering with the investigation to which the town court had referred in its detention orders had not been examined during the hearings and the applicants had not been given an opportunity to challenge it. the applicants were not brought to the courtroom. on the same day the regional court quashed the detention orders of 13 march 2007. there was no evidence that they had threatened witnesses or had attempted to destroy evidence. by letter dated 18 april 2007 the president of the moscow regional court informed them that under the domestic law copies were to be sent by post to the detention facility, which had been done on 12 april 2007. copies of the detention orders could not be given to counsel.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1966 respectively and live in moscow. the applicant, who was one of the indirect beneficial owners of a company, arranged for it to be sold to another company. on 1 october 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of fraud through the execution of a sham sales contract. it was alleged, in particular, that the company purchasing the applicant’s company also belonged to the applicant and the price it paid had been unrealistically low. the latter argued that he should not be detained by reliance on article 108 § 1.1 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”), which prohibits the remanding in custody of people suspected or accused of offences committed within the sphere of their business activities. the taganskiy district court dismissed that argument in the following terms:
“... [the applicant] is suspected of having committed a serious offence aimed at making a profit which was unconnected to any business activity and had been organised by a group of people; [the offence being] punishable with up to ten years’ imprisonment, some of the accomplices have not yet been identified and arrested.” on 21 october 2013 the moscow city court upheld the detention order. on 28 november 2013 and 27 january 2014 the taganskiy district court extended the applicant’s detention, repeating its previous findings. on 27 december 2013 and 18 april 2014 respectively the moscow city court upheld the above detention extensions on appeal. on 28 march 2014 the ostankinskiy district court of moscow (“the ostankinskiy district court”) further extended the applicant’s detention. as regards article 108 § 1.1 of the ccrp, the district court stated as follows:
“the court dismisses the arguments of the defence and of [the applicant] himself that the offence of which he is accused was committed within the sphere of his business activity because, according to the current bill of indictment, he is accused of having committed an offence motivated by profit with the aim of misappropriating another’s property by way of deception or abuse of trust, using an organised group, and on a particularly large scale. on 14 may 2014 the moscow city court upheld on appeal the detention extension order of 28 march 2014. on 10 april 2015 the moscow city court granted bail to the applicant. upon deposit of the bail sum on 17 april 2015 the applicant was released. on 15 september 2014 a criminal investigation was opened into the misappropriation of the funds of an insolvent bank. on 23 september 2014 the applicant, who owned the bank, was arrested on suspicion of having transferred money out of the bank’s account by acquiring unsecured promissory notes. the applicant argued that he should not be detained, inter alia, because he was suspected of an offence committed within the sphere of his business activity. on 10 november 2014 the moscow city court upheld the detention order on appeal. the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s argument that his alleged offences had been committed within the sphere of his business activity. in particular, the moscow city court held as follows:
“... the action of committing an offence by using another’s funds and taking on obligations to the bank’s clients without any intention to comply with them, cannot be considered to be a business activity.”
this application was lodged on 20 october 2008 by svetlana ivanovna tsvetkova, who was born in 1972 and lives in irkutsk. the administrative arrest record reads as follows:
“i, officer b., ... compiled the present administrative arrest record in respect of: [the applicant’s name, date of birth, address] ... who has been escorted to ... on 1 january 2008 at 10 p.m., on account of an administrative offence under article [blank] of the cao. she was then kept with drunk people in a small cell with no seats and no toilet. a new refusal was issued on 30 june 2008 by the same investigator. on 30 august 2010 the applicant’s superior, mr i., called the police to report that the applicant had used (unspecified) foul language at his work place. the applicant was not provided with food or allowed outdoors. access to a toilet (which was apparently outside the cell) was available every four hours (or sometimes every eight hours). at 3 p.m. on 11 december 2011 the applicant was taken before a justice of the peace, who then sentenced him to two days of detention for the offence under article 20.25 of the cao. the applicant was then taken back to the detention centre and was released at around 11.30 p.m. 30. on 2 august 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld the decision. the courts considered that while neither the ccp nor the cao set out a separate procedure for challenging the measures of being escorted to the police station or of administrative arrest, arguments concerning those measures could be raised during an examination of the related cao charges against the applicant, as well as in an appeal against a decision that had been taken on such charges. on 20 december 2012 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment. according to a written report by officer s., at 2.45 p.m. on 9 june 2008 he arrested the applicant for being drunk and looking untidy in a public place, and took him to the police station where he then remained until he sobered up. 45 p.m. or had been drunk or otherwise behaving in a manner offending public morals or human dignity. on 11 june 2008 the bolsheukovskiy district court quashed the conviction and discontinued the case for lack of any evidence to confirm the facts as imputed to the applicant. he was handcuffed and, allegedly, physical force was used against him. the relevant record reads as follows:
“[the applicant] arrived at the police station at ‘11.25’ in connection with offences under: ‘article 20.2, article 19.3 of the cao’
for (among the grounds listed in article 27 of the cao): for compiling a record of administrative offence ...” 45. the applicant was released at 8.30 p.m. he was later admitted to hospital. by a judgment of 12 february 2014, the town court dismissed his claim. it stated, inter alia, that the justice of the peace had not been provided with any proof that the applicant was a military officer.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in moscow. she moved back to her parents’ residence and took a. with her. on the same day the case was transferred to the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow. the parents have been unable to come to an agreement on this matter. it considered that, by reason of his very young age, a. should reside with his mother. a lack of maternal care during that period, and in particular during the behavioural crises that a three-year-old typically undergoes, could result in the child developing negative character traits, such as stubbornness, surliness, hysterical reactions and inadequate social adaptation. on 15 july 2010 the childcare authority rejected the application, referring to the interim measure imposed by the timiryazevskiy district court. the applicant submitted that there had been no justification for the interim measure, which had been motivated solely by the prevailing belief that a child should be raised by the mother rather than the father. on 26 january 2011 the mytishchi city court upheld ch. by applying the interim measure, the judge had prejudged the case. that she should stop preventing a. from seeing his paternal family. on 7 april 2011 the moscow city court, acting by way of supervisory review, quashed the judgment of 26 january 2011 upholding ch. the applicant had positive character references: he was calm, polite and affectionate towards his son. ’s pay statements, (ii)  documents showing that the district where ch. lived was among the most polluted districts of moscow, (iii)  documents from the criminal case file against ch., ’s application for a residence order in her favour and dismissed a similar application by the applicant. at the same time, each parent, taken alone, possesses moral, personal and other qualities rendering each of them capable of raising a small child. there is an accumulation of reasons on the basis of which the court considers that the child should live with the mother. given his age, a change of residence and a separation from the mother will have a negative impact on the child’s general and psychological state. the court also finds that [the applicant’s] request for a residence order is at the moment premature. [
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in nizhnevartovsk, in the khanty-mansiyisk region. according to the applicant, the investigator, ch., repeatedly questioned him as “a witness to the incident”. however, he was required to correct some errors in his claim. on 28 september 2011 the noyabrsk town court returned the claim to the applicant, stating that he had failed to correct the errors in his claim. on the same day the investigator arrested him and drew up formal records of his arrest. m. the cell housed between nine and twelve inmates who took it in turns to sleep. the dining table was only 1.5 m away from the bucket. there was not enough drinking water for everybody. the detainees were allowed to take a shower once every ten days for fifteen minutes, and there were three shower heads for nine to ten people. it was cold in winter (there was a maximum temperature of 6˚c) and hot in summer (a maximum temperature of 45˚c). the detainees were provided with neither bedding nor items of personal hygiene. inmates were not provided with newspapers, reading material, or any information concerning their rights. the applicant was held in a cell with persistent offenders and ill persons. this was clearly not enough, since the water in the tanks would be used up by about 10 a.m. the toilets smelled extremely unpleasant, since there was no water to flush them after 10 a.m. 25. the smell caused headaches and the open windows caused colds. the dining room in the dormitory measured 32 sq. as regards the conditions of the applicant’s detention in ik-8 in labytnangi, the government submitted information which can be summarised as follows:
 
 
period of detention
 
 
unit no. on an unspecified date in 2010, while serving his sentence in the correctional colony, the applicant brought civil proceedings against the noyabrsk police station and the russian ministry of finance, seeking compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage resulting from the poor conditions of his detention in the ivs in 2006. on 30 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 23 july 2010.
the applicants are ms zita bistieva, who was born in 1976, and her three minor children, who were born in 2006, 2008 and 2013, respectively. and their two elder children arrived in poland. applied for asylum for himself and his family. at the material time, it only hosted families and unaccompanied children. that number included 13 men, 19 women and 38 minors. kętrzyn was one of the two guarded centres in poland which had done away with an additional barbed wire on the fence. the overall living conditions in the centre were assessed as good. each family occupied one room which was equipped with basic furniture. adequate medical care, including dental and psychological care, was provided in the kętrzyn centre. the premises were clean and adapted to children. the classes were organised every day and, in early 2014, lasted from one hour to one hour and a half. the domestic court relied on the fact that the 2013 expulsion decision was enforceable despite ms bistieva’s renewed asylum application and that the identification of the family members was being carried out by the polish authorities. regional court (sąd okręgowy) upheld the decision of 9 january 2014. on 19 february 2014 the head of the aliens office decided not to grant the application to stay the enforcement of the 2013 expulsion decision. it was noted that the decision covered all the applicants. the domestic court held that section 107 of the 2003 aliens act had not been breached by the fact that the youngest child had been detained along with ms bistieva and the rest of the family even though his own expulsion had not been authorised by the governor. separating ms bistieva from any of her children would be contrary to their best interests. on 29 june 2014 the applicants were released. later, on an unspecified date in august 2014 the applicants left for germany. as submitted by their lawyer, they currently live in herne.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in stavropol. the applicant is the founder, sole owner and director of a limited liability company, akvilon (общество с ограниченной ответственностью «аквилон»). the two men made an oral agreement with the company to pay 55,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 2,000 euros (eur)) in cash immediately upon receipt of the sugar. on the same date mr v., the applicant’s husband and a deputy director of akvilon, transferred the sugar to mr p. and mr pr., who then left under the pretext that they had to fetch more cash in order to be able to pay. the case was assigned to an investigator, mr s., who granted the status of victim of a crime to the akvilon company. who had promised to deliver the money to akvilon and had then disappeared. the investigator acknowledged mr p. and mr pr. as witnesses in the case and, without formally attaching the sugar, left it with them for safe storage. and its transfer to a third party for safe storage. on 15 january 2002 the order was executed and the attached sugar was included in the list of exhibits in the case. the decisions stated that the investigation had established that, despite their written undertakings to store the sugar, mr p. and mr pr. had sold it to third persons in december 2001. the two men had then delivered the stipulated amount in cash to a certain ms ya., who had negotiated the deal between them and akvilon and had disappeared once in receipt of the money. attempted to pursue the proceedings any further. the judgment was not appealed against, and no enforcement proceedings were ever instituted. throughout the investigation into the incident of 30 november 2001 the applicant lodged numerous complaints with the supervising prosecutors alleging negligence on the part of the investigator, mr s. in particular, she complained of his failure timeously to attach the sugar belonging to akvilon and his decision to transfer it for safe storage to mr p. and mr pr., between april and july 2004 the nevinnomyssk prosecutor’s office took a number of similar decisions to dispense with criminal proceedings against mr s. they stated, in essence, that although formally there were elements of an offence punishable under article 293 of the russian criminal code (professional negligence) in mr s.’s actions, that article provided for criminal liability only if the damage caused by such negligence attained a minimum of rub 100,000, whereas the pecuniary damage alleged by akvilon had been lower than that amount. it also sought compensation for damage to its business reputation.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in sovetskaya gavan, khabarovsk region. on 22 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and brought to the khabarovsk administrative detention centre where he stayed until 27 november 2009. since 22 october 2009 he had been detained with more than 12 inmates in the cell no. 9 designed for 12 persons and had to take turns to sleep. a month after he had been transferred to another cell with the area of 6 square meters which he had shared with another inmate. the detention centre had no shower facilities or a place for outdoor walks. the applicant’s cell was cold and damp, iron banks were not covered by mattresses. toilets were not separated from the living area, and the persons using them were in full view of others. food supply was inadequate, the applicant was served meals only once a day and had no drinking water from within the cell. the government submitted that the khabarovsk administrative detention centre comprised two cells: no. 5 with the area of 14.6 square meters for 3 inmates and no. 6 with the area of 18 square meters for 4 inmates. there was no overcrowding; the toilet had been separate by a shoulder length fence. the detainees may take a shower once a week. the temperature was 23oc, there were kettles with boiled water in the cells. on 26 october 2009 the applicant’s wife, mrs liu, sought to visit the applicant but was refused. on 6 and 10 november 2009 the applicant’s wife filed complaints with the khabarovsk prosecutor’s office stating that she had not been allowed to see the applicant. in august 2010 the applicant brought a civil claim for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage, stating that the conditions of his detention had been inhuman and degrading, and that the prohibition on family visits was unlawful. on 9 february 2011 the industrialnyy district court of khabarovsk dismissed his claim. relying on the statements of a representative of the detention centre, the court held that the internal rules of the administrative detention centres approved by the decree of the ministry of defence of russia of 6 june 2000 no.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in moscow. following their separation in november 2010, the applicant and e. agreed that i. would live with the applicant and e. would visit him regularly. she submitted that i. had lived with her from birth until his removal by his father the previous october. on 19 march 2014 the childcare authority of the chertanovo district of moscow visited the applicant’s flat in moscow and found the living conditions there suitable for a small child. the boy is very attached to the father and receives a lot of attention, tenderness and care. e. had financially supported them and had visited them regularly. on 17 april 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s application for a residence order in her favour. the plenary ruling stresses, in particular, that the better financial or living conditions of one of the parents cannot, in themselves, constitute a decisive reason for granting this parent’s application for a residence order in his [or her] favour. this age is most difficult, and requires special attention from the mother. because of her work, she does not have enough time to devote to her children. he lives with his mother [a.], who helps to raise [i.]. in the court’s opinion, the claimant has not submitted evidence in support of her arguments in [the] adversarial proceedings.” the applicant had placed i. in a nursery school to give him a pre-school education and to further his social adaptation. his medical condition was not an obstacle to his attending a pre-school. neither her working schedule nor that of e. had been examined. lastly, the applicant complained that e. was preventing her from seeing her son. by a letter of 12 september 2014, the head of the childcare authority of grozny informed the applicant that the childcare official who had issued the report of 15 april 2014 had been disciplined. i continued to live with his paternal grandmother a. 25. on 31 july 2015 the town court granted her application. on 12 november 2015 the supreme court of the chechen republic upheld the judgment on appeal.
the bektashi order has existed and practised its religion in the respondent state for many centuries. on 25 august 1997 the commission requested that the applicant association submit a copy of its application (копија од пријавата) to be listed in the register of the ministry and the related certificate of registration (потврда за постојано пријавување) so that it could “transfer (into its register) the religious communities and groups of which the ministry of the interior had been notified (пријавени)” (section 35 of the 1997 act, see paragraph 37 below). according to the applicant association, on 16 september 1997 it forwarded to the commission all the documents obtained from the ministry save for the certificate, which had never been issued. it came into operation on 1 may 2008 (section 36). all religious organisations registered by the commission up until 1998 could retain their existing legal personality and status. on 2 october 2009 the registration court dismissed the applicant association’s request. that requirement concerned only registered religious organisations and not entities which were listed by the commission. on 30 november 2010 the registration court requested further documents to complete the application. the applicant association appealed against this decision and asked the court of appeal to hold a public hearing. on 27 may 2011 the registration court again refused to register the applicant association as its intended name contained the term “bektashi”, which had already been used by another religious entity, namely the “ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia” registered in the court register on 10 september 2010. it argued that there was no other religious entity registered under the same name. as regards the doctrinal sources, it argued that they could not be regarded as official insignia within the meaning of section 10(1) of the 2007 act. they were of an ideological nature and were not constant, nor could they be interpreted in that way. official insignia concerned symbols (crosses, crescents, graphic symbols), a flag or a totem that represented something. in this connection, it stated that the interpretation which the court had given regarding its doctrinal sources, namely that they were identical to the doctrinal sources of all islamic teaching, was wrong. on 20 february 2012 the applicant association and the second applicant (and two other individuals) lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court complaining that they had been discriminated against contrary to article 110 § 3 of the constitution. they participate in public life, communicate with state bodies, and participate in religious gatherings and conferences. in order to reply whether there are elements of discrimination in the dismissal of the application for registration of the bektashi religious community, the constitutional court assesses whether the courts which decided in the registration proceedings ... gave sufficient reasons and whether the refusal to register the bektashi religious community was based on relevant and reasonable grounds, namely whether the refusal of registration pursued a legitimate aim and whether there was a measure of proportionality between the means used and the aim pursued ...” 33. the court then referred to the grounds on which the registration court had based its decision and stated as follows:
“... the [registration] court refused to register the [applicant association] on two grounds: (1) the intended name of the [applicant association] contained the term ‘bektashi’ which had been incorporated into the name of an already registered religious entity, the ‘ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia’ ... and (2) its doctrinal sources were the same as the doctrinal sources of an already registered religious entity, the islamic religious community. ... each religious entity, church, religious community or group has the right to be distinct and be recognised in public by its identity.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in dubrovnik. according to the applicant, he did not resist arrest and did not sustain injuries during his arrest; rather, it was during his stay in the police station that the police officers ill-treated him in order to pressure him to make incriminating statements against his co-accused in the trial. in the police vehicle the applicant had continued to resist and the police officer s.d. on the same day a shift manager of the criminal police department noted in a report that the applicant had actively resisted arrest and that s.d., the report noted that the applicant had declined to hire a lawyer and that he had asked that his father be informed of his arrest. lastly, the applicant stated that he had been arrested the day before at 5 p.m. and that apart from the use of force during his arrest he did not have any objections about the police conduct during his stay in the police station. on 29 october 2010 an investigation was opened in respect of the applicant and d.š on the reasonable suspicion of their having engaged in drug abuse. on 3 may 2011 a hearing was held before the dubrovnik county court, which the applicant and his lawyer attended. at a hearing held on 20 june 2011, which the applicant and his lawyer attended, the dubrovnik country court (“the trial court”) established the identity of the defendants and the charges brought against them. the applicant stated that he understood the charges brought against him and the warnings regarding his rights given by the presiding judge and that he would present his defence and answer questions. he asked to give his defence at the end of the trial. explained that this proposed evidence was relevant for the establishing of the conduct of the police against the applicant. however, when the police had started questioning him about d.š. he alleged that he had been beaten by police officers l.d., be heard and that the medical documentation relating to the injuries the applicant had sustained during his questioning by the police be examined. guilty as charged and sentenced them to eight and two years’ imprisonment, respectively. the applicant appealed against the first-instance judgment to the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske). in his appeal he stated that he had not resisted his arrest and had not sustained injuries during his arrest. as to the change of the applicant’s line of defence during the trial, the supreme court agreed with the trial court that this had probably been an attempt to help his co-accused, d.š., on 7 november 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as ill-founded.
the first applicant was born in 1950 and lives in warsaw. on 18 february 1993 the warsaw regional prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the warsaw regional court. with misappropriation of public property and mismanagement. with regard to that offence, the trial court sentenced him to two and a half years’ imprisonment and a fine. pursuant to that provision, a finding that a court had not been properly constituted resulted in the judgment being automatically set aside on appeal. it discontinued the part of the proceedings concerning the quashed convictions. having regard to the supreme court’s resolution of 17 november 2005, the court of appeal considered the effect of the breach of articles 350 § 1 (1) and 351 § 1 of the ccp on the content of the trial court’s judgment. however, a judge was prevented from participating in parliamentary work on criminal law codification as an advisor chosen by an mp, parliamentary group or a political party. it transpired from the minutes of a meeting of the special committee on 1 june 2005 that judge a.k. the court of appeal held as follows:
“in the present case ... on the basis of the circumstances concerning the passing of the 2005 amendment established in the course of the appellate proceedings, the court of appeal reached the conclusion that the regulations contained in the act had been adopted by the legislature, in particular, so that they could be applied to the pending proceedings in a specific case indicated in the reasons for the bill, and in addition, the judge hearing the case took part in the process of amending the law as an advisor, thus showing a lack of impartiality. to the case and the efforts of the judge to amend the legislation applicable to the case in the course of the trial and at the formal examination stage of the appeal. in their view, the assignment of judge a.k. in the supreme court’s view, an analysis of the statement did not permit the conclusion that judge a.k. with regard to the constitutionality of the 2005 amendment related to the shortcomings of the legislative process, the supreme court concurred with the court of appeal that the conduct of that process indicated that the impugned legislation had been adopted with a view to influencing the outcome of a particular case. for that reason, the supreme court quashed the part of the court of appeal’s judgment concerning the discontinuation of the proceedings against the second applicant (point vi.2 of the operative provisions of the trial court’s judgment) and remitted that part of the case to it. in its decision of 11 february 2009 (case no. he alleged, in particular, that the court of appeal had violated the provisions of the substantive criminal law related to his conviction under article 217 § 2 of the old criminal code. unfortunately, we have succeeded in creating a belief among criminals that they can go unpunished. no one is alleging that because of that those judges are not impartial, and rightly so. participated as an advisor to the special committee on two bills amending the criminal code.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in st petersburg. on 4 june 2010 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery committed in an organised group. on 4 august 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 august 2010[1]. on 11 october 2010 the st petersburg city court (“the city court”) found that there were no reasons to vary the preventive measure, and it upheld the decision of 24 august 2010 on appeal. besides, all these documents had been examined in the hearing on 24 august 2010. however, they had refused to communicate in such conditions. both the applicant and his lawyer participated in the appeal hearing. on the same date, 11 october 2010, charges in respect of two counts of large-scale robbery committed in an organised group under article 161 § 3 (a) and (b) of the russian criminal code were brought against the applicant. on 22 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer did not appear for the hearing. legal aid counsel was appointed for the applicant. on 22 february 2011, reiterating the reasons which had prompted the application of the custodial measure in the applicant’s case, the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 may 2011 pending examination of the case file. as regards the applicant’s complaint regarding the alleged violation of his right to defence by the refusal to adjourn the hearing of 22 february 2011, the city court held that the applicant’s lawyer had failed to prove her sickness by providing a medical certificate. on 30 may 2011 the district court further extended the applicant’s detention until 24 august 2011 pending examination of the case file. on 11 january 2013 the city court acquitted the applicant of all charges in a jury trial. the judgment became final on 23 july 2013. m, was equipped with eight sleeping places and accommodated up to ten inmates, and cell 145, measuring 18 sq. m, was designed for eight people and housed up to ten individuals. m, offered six places, and up to six detainees occupied those places. as mentioned above, on 6 april and 28 june 2011 respectively the city court examined the applicant’s appeals against the decisions of the district court of 22 february and 30 may 2011 extending his detention. he participated in the appeals by means of a video link from the remand prison, where he was confined in a metal cage.
the applicants were born in 1984 and 1979 respectively and live in moscow. on 14 december 2012 the state duma adopted at first reading a draft law which, in particular, prohibited adoption of children of russian nationality by us citizens. on 17 december 2012 the official daily newspaper rossiyskaya gazeta announced that the second reading was scheduled for 19 december 2012. the applicants decided to hold their own solo “pickets” and at around 9 a.m. positioned themselves, holding banners, in the vicinity of the state duma at some distance from other protesters (see also lashmankin and others v. russia, nos. 57818/09 and 14 others, §§ 206-15, 7 february 2017). according to the applicants, they were arrested by the police several minutes later and brought to a police station. at 10.30 a.m. the police drew up a record of the administrative escorting (протокол административного доставления) in respect of each applicant. the first applicant was released at 1.20 p.m. the second applicant was released at 1.10 p.m. 12. on 15 january 2013 the justice of the peace of the 369th court circuit of the tverskoy district of moscow found the second applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of 20,000 russian roubles (rub), (about 495 euros (eur) at the time). the justice of the peace found it established, on the basis of the records and testimony of police officers, that the applicant had taken part in a “picket” involving fifty people. that “picket” was unlawful because no notification had been submitted by the organisers as required by the public events act (hereinafter “pea”). the applicant had waved a banner, thereby attracting the attention of passers-by and journalists assembled for the occasion. he had not complied with the police order to stop picketing. the justice of the peace also relied on police reports and testimony of a police officer who had apprehended the first applicant at the venue of the public event. both applicants appealed, insisting that each of them had held a solo demonstration which did not require prior notification of the authorities. the first applicant also pointed out that he had been arrested earlier than indicated in the arrest record. on 13 february and 11 march 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgments concerning the second and the first applicant respectively. on 28 june 2013 the deputy president of the moscow city court partly allowed his complaint and changed the classification of the administrative charge against him. the second applicant was found guilty of the breach of the established procedure for the conduct of public events committed by a participant, an offence punishable under article 20.2 § 5 of the cao. his fine was reduced to rub 10,000 (about eur 233 at the time).
the applicant was born in chernivtsi in ukraine in 1966. in 1984 she moved to magadan in russia (which is about 12,000 kilometres away from chernivtsi), where she obtained a teaching degree and has been working as a school teacher for over twenty years. a russian national, also lived in magadan for a certain period of time. subsequently, the grandparents raised k.l.s. moved to magadan and, since that time, has lived together with the applicant in her flat. no appeal was lodged and on 11 march 2009 the judgment entered into force. whose nationality was disputed by the parties. according to a copy of an undated letter from k.t.o., was taken into care as his mother had left him alone in her flat for over twenty-four hours. no information was submitted to the court as to whether the parents of k.o.s. the formal status of a child deprived of parental care. she discovered that he had been placed in an orphanage and informed the applicant accordingly. the applicant decided to become her nephew’s legal tutor (a guardian for children under fourteen). in august and september 2012 the applicant made a number of telephone calls to the childcare service of chernivtsi and to the orphanage, asking them to take into account that she wished to become k.o.s. ’s legal tutor, and that she was preparing the necessary documents to make a formal application. on 6 september 2012 they informed the childcare service of chernivtsi that they wished to adopt k.o.s. and asked it to issue an opinion in favour of the adoption. on 19 september 2012 the executive committee of chernivtsi, acting in the exercise of its childcare related functions, issued an opinion in favour of the requested adoption. they had established contact and a good relationship with the child and, according to the orphanage’s psychologist, the child wished to live in their family, although he could not give written consent as “he didn’t understand what adoption was because of his age”. was a russian national, as his biological mother had been a russian national at the time when he had been born in 2007; (iv) that the procedure provided for in ukraine’s relevant international treaties in relation to the adoption of foreign nationals had not been followed; and (v) that the pershotravnevyy court had disregarded the fact that she had informed the ukrainian childcare service of her wish to become k.o.s.
the applicants were members of the national bolsheviks party. they had locked themselves in and blocked the door with a heavy safe. on 30 june 2005 the tverskoy district court held a preliminary hearing. hearings were held on 11, 14, 27 and 29 july, 1, 3, 10, 12, 15, 19, 22, 23, 29 and 31 august, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27 and 30 september, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 12, 17 and 24 october and 15, 16, 17, 18, 21 and 22 november 2005. hearings often continued until late in the evening. according to the applicants, the fast pace of the trial, coupled with the remand centre regulations prohibiting visits on weekends and allowing counsel to see no more than one client per day, prevented them from having a sufficient number of consultations with their counsel. they also often left the detention facility before breakfast and returned after supper. they did not therefore receive regular food. the court rejected their requests and continued to schedule hearings almost every day. on 19 september 2005 counsel unsuccessfully complained, relying on article 6 § 3 (b) of the convention, that because of the frequent hearings they did not have sufficient time to meet with the defendants and prepare their defence. while in the courtroom the defendants were held in four metal cages. the applicants submitted a courtroom plan and photographs confirming that arrangement. during the trial the applicants and their co-defendants stated that they had taken part in a peaceful protest against president putin’s politics. they had come to the president’s administration to meet the officials and hand over a petition that listed the president’s ten failures to comply with the constitution and contained a call for his resignation. they had chanted slogans and distributed leaflets thereby expressing their opinion about important political issues. they denied destroying any furniture or offering resistance to the police. they claimed that the furniture had been destroyed by the guards and the police officers who had arrested them. they had resisted the attempts to force the door. the judge rejected their requests, finding that there was no reason to believe that state secrets would be revealed during the questioning of the witnesses. on 8 december 2005 the tverskoy district court found the applicants and their co-defendants guilty of participation in mass disorders.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in lunel. the applicant, a lawyer at the montpellier bar since 1978, acted for m.b., for trial before the gard assize court on a charge of manslaughter. ’s colleagues for trial before the assize court for having lied in their statements to him, given under oath. the trial at the assize court began on 28 september 2009 and lasted for five days. some of the coverage was streamed live on the internet. people are living in tower blocks cut off from city centres. for some, prosecution ends in conviction while others are acquitted. he added that he had not targeted the assize court, the prosecution or the defence. however, the rapporteur was able to hear evidence from one of the lawyers for the acquitted gendarme, mr n.-p. in parallel, in a judgment of 1 march 2010, the nîmes criminal court sentenced the other two gendarmes to a one-month suspended term of imprisonment and a fine of 1,000 euros (eur) for giving false testimony under oath. on 2 april 2010 the applicant was summoned to appear before the disciplinary board on the basis of article 183 of the above-mentioned decree of 27 november 1991 (see paragraph 29 below), “for having, in the public lobby outside the courtroom of the nîmes court of appeal, seriously breached the essential ethical principles of the legal profession, and specifically those of discretion and moderation, by publicly making the following comments accusing the court and jury of racist and xenophobic bias”. reiterating his statements, the applicant relied in particular on article 10 of the convention, arguing that his remarks had been made in the context of the defence of his client’s interests as a civil party and within the ten-day period during which the principal public prosecutor could appeal against the acquittal. on 11 june 2010 the disciplinary board delivered its decision. the disciplinary board considered that the remarks had to be placed in the dual context of the full statement and the circumstances in which they had been made. the principal public prosecutor appealed against the disciplinary board’s decision. he requested that the applicant be barred from practising for three to six months. the court of appeal went on to find that, since all the members of the jury were french citizens, references to the colour of their skin did not relate to their social background or nationality but rather to their racial background. the court further found as follows:
“as the members of the jury form part of the assize court, composed of three professional judges and nine lay jurors, this amounts to discrediting the entire court and consequently the judiciary itself, by disregarding the other three members of the assize court and especially the collegial spirit whose very purpose is to avoid bias and afford enhanced procedural guarantees.” in addition to the ‘low rate of prosecution of alleged perpetrators’, according to the non-governmental organisation, there was a certain ‘laxity’ in the sentences imposed, leading to real impunity for the offences.”
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in baku. the applicant is a well-known civil society activist and human rights defender. following numerous attempts to acquire status as a legal entity under domestic law, the election monitoring centre was finally registered by the ministry of justice on 1 february 2008. however, a few months later, in may 2008, the domestic courts ordered its dissolution at the request of the same ministry. the domestic proceedings relating to the registration and dissolution of the election monitoring centre are the subject of an application pending before the court (see application no. the applicant has been involved in the preparation of various reports relating to the organisation of elections and general human rights situation in azerbaijan. on 16 december 2013 the applicant was arrested and charged under articles 192.2.2 (illegal entrepreneurship), 213.1 (large-scale tax evasion) and 308.2 (abuse of power) of the criminal code. the prosecutor justified his request by citing the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he did not live at the address where he was officially registered as a resident, and that there was a risk of his absconding from the investigation and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings. on 23 december 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the first-instance court’s decision was lawful. in particular, he had cooperated with the investigation all along and, although he often travelled abroad, he had never intended to abscond from the investigation. on 26 december 2013 the applicant appealed against this decision, reiterating his previous complaints. following a request dated 4 march 2014 from the prosecutor general’s office for an extension of the period of the applicant’s pre-trial detention, on 6 march 2014 the nasimi district court extended the applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 16 june 2014. on 19 march 2014 the prosecutor general’s office charged the applicant under articles 179.3.2 (high-level embezzlement) and 313 (forgery in public office) of the criminal code, in addition to the original charges under articles 192.2.2, 213.1 and 308.2 of the criminal code. in support of his request, he reiterated his previous arguments. on 1 april 2014 the nasimi district court dismissed the request. in the meantime, on 5 april 2014 the applicant’s case was sent to the baku court of serious crimes for trial. it was further upheld on 26 august 2015 by the supreme court. following a presidentially decreed pardon on 17 march 2016, the applicant was released from serving the remainder of his sentence. they stated that they had met him on several occasions during their fact-finding visits to baku and at the parliamentary assembly in strasbourg, pointing out that “this decision on pre-trial detention may raise suspicions about politically-motivated justice which we denounced in our recent report on the honouring of obligations and commitments by azerbaijan”. all charges brought against them should be dropped and mr.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in glyka nera. in that interview the following statement was put to her:
“greek helsinki monitor accuses you of withholding information and lying before the un about the position of roma women, minority women, and whether polygamy is practiced in greece.” no other ngo shares the monitor’s position. on 1 june 2007 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the public prosecutor at the athens first-instance court. the applicant expressed his wish to join the proceedings as civil party, initially for the amount of 100,000 euros (eur), which he later reduced to eur 44. following an urgent preliminary inquiry, to which e.t. was requested to provide a statement as a suspect in the case, on 10 january 2008 the public prosecutor at the athens court of first instance dismissed the applicant’s criminal complaint and filed (αρχειοθέτησε) it away, in accordance with article 47 of the code of criminal procedure. the new hearing date before the three-member athens magistrates’ court was set for 18 september 2008. on 28 november 2008 the operative part of the judgment was corrected and on 6 april 2009, the case file was transmitted to the prosecution service at the athens court of appeal, marked as extremely urgent. the new hearing date was set for 13 may 2009. as the acts for which she was accused had not taken place in the course of her parliamentary activities. 11801/04, 16 november 2006) and syngelidis v. greece (no. he further stressed that the impugned acts would become time‑barred on 4 september 2010 and requested that the court proceed with examination on the merits of the case. ruled unanimously that the requirements of article 83 § 3 had been met and thus e.t. on 12 january 2011 the plenary of the greek parliament dismissed the request for leave to continue the criminal proceedings. on 16 july 2012 the head of the general directorate of human resources of the greek parliament notified the ministry of justice that e.t. had ceased to be member of parliament since 11 april 2012. on 26 october 2012 the court of appeal published judgment no. was accused had become time‑barred as more than forty-two months had passed since its alleged commission. it consequently ended the criminal prosecution.
he is currently serving a life sentence in dnipro. by the final domestic judgment of 16 july 2002, the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and other crimes. until september 2004 the applicant was detained in the cherkassy pre-trial detention centre (“the cherkassy sizo”) in which, he stated, cells had been overcrowded and had lacked basic amenities. guk, a former applicant to the court, with whom he had shared the cell for three years. according to that statement, the cell measured 3.7 by 3.4 metres (12.58 square metres) including a sanitary facility measuring 1.35 by 1.3 metres (1.76 square metres). the cell lacked basic amenities: no furniture for storage of personal belongings and food; a very small table; no rubbish container; and no toilet cleaners. the tap water was of a poor quality and water filters were not provided. according to the government, the equipment in the applicant’s cell corresponded to the domestic standards. prisoners were provided with all necessary amenities. whenever the guards opened the cell, the prisoners had to retreat to its far corner, squat and put their arms behind their heads. until april 2005 the prisoners had been required to roll up their mattresses in the morning. during the daytime they had been prohibited from lying down on the beds. in support of the above submissions, the applicant referred to the written statement of mr guk, which confirmed the procedure the prisoners had had to follow when the guards had opened the cell. mattresses on the beds had to be rolled up during the daytime. prisoners had not been provided with adequate medical assistance; they had been constantly ill-treated by the administration. in 2004-2006 family visits had not been adequately organised. the applicant’s correspondence with relatives had been reviewed and a number of his letters had disappeared. disinfection measures in the colony had fully complied with the domestic standards. when escorted out of the cell, they were handcuffed, but not required to walk in a squat or with the head covered with a bag; handcuffs were in a proper condition and their disinfection was not required. searches were conducted pursuant to the relevant regulations, and there were no situations alleged by the applicant.
the applicants were born in 1955 and 1962, respectively, and live in baku and absheron, respectively. they regularly made various statements and published articles in the media, criticising the state of the legal profession in the country. declared the meeting open and then the members of the presidium questioned the first applicant about his stance on the functioning of the aba, before dismissing his application. member of the presidium [...]: one minute. but why do you want to become a member of it? unfortunately, azerbaijani law allows for the creation of only one bar association. that is why i applied for admission to this bar association. the relevant parts of the transcript of the meeting, which is three pages long, read as follows:
“after giving the information about intigam aliyev [the second applicant] to the members of the presidium, a.t. mr aliyev, you brought an action in court against the aba. [the second applicant]: i am still of the same opinion. [the second applicant]: whom have i insulted? you have insulted the aba in your writings. in your law, the right of legal counsels to bring an action against the aba is provided for. you are a legal counsel; how can you speak like that? on 21 february 2006 the first applicant brought an action in the nasimi district court alleging that the presidium’s decision of 27 january 2006 had been unlawful. it appears from the transcript of the nasimi district court’s hearing held on 7 february 2007, which was submitted to the court by the first applicant, that the representative of the aba at the hearing, i.k., you [the first applicant] have the transcript (stenoqram). on 11 august 2009 the nasimi district court delivered its judgment on the merits, dismissing both the claims of the second applicant and those of the aba. 27 dated 19 november 2005 of the presidium” (see paragraph 14 above) and the annex thereto. the files relating to the present two applications were also seized in their entirety.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in apeldoorn. it sentenced him to a partially suspended term of 40 months’ imprisonment. both the applicant and the prosecution appealed against the regional court’s judgment. submitting that article 197a of the criminal code had been amended in order to implement the directive, the applicant argued that the notion of the facilitation of unauthorised “residence” within the meaning of article 197a § 2 should be understood as entailing a long-term stay, to be distinguished from “transit” or “entry” as defined in the first paragraph of article 197a, which had been added to article 197a when the directive was implemented. in his advisory opinion of 10 december 2013, the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the supreme court expressed his view that the applicant’s appeal should be dismissed with the exception of the first of the grounds of the appeal, which pertained to the length of the proceedings: the duration of the cassation proceedings had exceeded a reasonable time within the meaning of article 6 § 1 of the convention, for which a reduction of sentence was to be applied. that document is annexed to this judgment, of which it is a component part. counsel [for the applicant] have submitted a written reply.” the supreme court further considered:
“4. section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act entered into force on 1 july 2012. it provides as follows (references to other domestic legislation omitted):
“1. the bill is intended to enable the supreme court to concentrate on its core tasks as a court of cassation. the establishment of quality requirements for counsel is aimed at ensuring that cassation appeals are accompanied by statements of grounds of appeal that are of decent quality. however, the limits of its application are discernible. what is new is the latitude given to the supreme court to declare an appeal inadmissible on the (substantive) finding that the grounds of appeal submitted do not justify a detailed review in cassation proceedings (geen nadere beoordeling in cassatie rechtvaardigen). section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act provides that in the cases referred to therein, the supreme court may declare the cassation appeal inadmissible after having heard the procurator general. a judgment in which the appeal in cassation is declared inadmissible or dismissed by application of and with reference to section 80a or 81 of the judiciary (organisation) act contains an abridged reasoning of that decision. [...] it is for the national court, not the parties to the main proceedings, to bring a matter before the court of justice. [...] the system established by article 267 tfeu with a view to ensuring that european union law is interpreted uniformly throughout the member states instituted direct cooperation between the court of justice and the national courts by means of a procedure which is completely independent of any initiative by the parties [...].” in the case of lucio cesare aquino v. belgische staat (c-3/16, ecli:eu:c:2017:209), the cjeu gave judgment on 15 march 2017, stating, as far as relevant to the present case:
“43. consequently, if in accordance with the procedural rules of the member state concerned, the pleas in law raised before a court referred to in the third paragraph of article 267 tfeu must be declared inadmissible, a request for a preliminary ruling cannot be regarded as necessary and relevant for that court to be able to give judgment.”
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in kaunas. it was indicated in her request that she and her sister would accept land in another location. the applicant specified that monetary compensation should be paid in a “convertible currency at market prices”. in september 2010 the applicant asked the authorities to remove all the underground telecommunications cables that were situated on one of the plots of land that had been returned to her. on 4 october 2010 the authorities informed the applicant that the remaining plot of land of 2.5469 hectares was state redeemable, and she could be compensated for it by receiving securities or by a new plot of land of equal value in a rural area being transferred to her. the applicant’s claim was thus dismissed. had been provided with a plot of land of 0.06 hectares for construction of an individual home in 1992. that conclusion was upheld by the kaunas regional court on 14 october 2013. however, it also held that her request for damages could only be satisfied if the state had acted unlawfully. on 24 july 2014 the supreme administrative court held that the first-instance court had been obliged to examine the applicant’s request to have her property rights restored, but it had not examined all the documents submitted. on 24 february 2015 the kaunas regional administrative court held that on 9 october 1991 the applicant had submitted a request to have her property rights to 7.06 hectares of her father’s land restored (see paragraph 5 above). the court further referred to the administrative proceedings regarding the applicant’s alleged inability to use one plot of land that had been returned to her (see paragraphs 26-28 above), and the civil proceedings regarding the sale of the plot of land of 0.0498 hectares to r.n., if no method was chosen, the authorities could choose for the citizen. the court further held that the actions of the national land service had been lawful, considering that the applicant’s requests had not been possible under domestic law. moreover, the authorities had stated that a decision to pay the applicant monetary compensation would be issued. she also stated that she was not going to change her mind and would require her father’s land to be returned to her. the applicant replied to this letter in april 2015 and accused the authorities of unlawfully expropriating property. two plots of land had been returned to the applicant in natura in 2009. the compensation calculated for the applicant was in line with domestic law and the practice of the court. in october 2017 the authorities asked the applicant to provide them with her account number so they could pay her the monetary compensation of eur 9,359.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. the editor of the book was a certain b.k. on the same day a single judge at the istanbul state security court made an interim order for the seizure of copies of the book. the judge considered that the passages referred to by the public prosecutor incited the use of methods of violence and terror, and thus constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk. on 14 october 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor cited a number of passages from pages 7, 19, 23, 81, 106-114, 139, 147, 152, 157-177, 203, 273, 277, 317, 321, and claimed that in those passages members of the pkk were depicted as heroes, and their acts and activities were praised. 5187) which had entered into force on 26 june 2004. it then remitted the case file to the istanbul assize court, since, in the meantime, state security courts had been abolished. on 19 october 2006 the court of cassation decided that the istanbul assize court had jurisdiction over the case and sent the case file to that court. the court sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine of 416 turkish liras (try). in its judgment, the court held:
“on the basis of the examination of the book in its entirety, it has been observed that the book depicts the activities of members of the pkk-kadek, the terrorist organisation, and their so-called impressions of the clashes between them and members of the security forces. the book consists of different chapters written by different people. they did not know us as members of the pkk, and we were not established there. if we went there as the pkk, we could not win their hearts. some people told us that they had never heard of our organisation, and they thought that we were a very good one. that day i forgot about my sleeplessness. ‘... [he asked] “my friend, is this your first [armed] clash?” as a result, the court found that the book did not have any literary value. on 2 february 2010 the court of cassation quashed the judgment. 3713 and article 75 of the criminal code.
the applicants are russian nationals who were born in 1952 and 1954 respectively and live in the town of belomorsk in the republic of karelia. on 1 december 2005 the applicants’ son, mr m. lozovoy, was killed in st petersburg. criminal proceedings were instituted against a mr o. on a charge of murder. on 18 january 2006 ms l., an investigator of the primorskiy district prosecutor’s office in st petersburg, asked the head of the primorskiy district police to identify relatives of the deceased; to establish their place of residence and to summon them to the prosecutor’s office for the purpose of granting them victim status in the criminal case. a week later the applicants’ son was buried under his full name in st petersburg. a record in a cemetery registration log indicated that the body had been unclaimed. on 30 january 2006 the investigator, having concluded that it was impossible to identify relatives of the deceased, assigned the status of victim in the criminal case to a representative of the municipal authorities. the following day police officials informed the investigator that operative measures undertaken by them to identify mr m. lozovoy’s relatives had not produced any results. on 2 february 2006 the applicants contacted ms l. and informed her of their intention to come to st petersburg to take part in the criminal proceedings. despite that notification by the applicants, five days later ms l. sent the criminal case file to the primorskiy district court for trial. sometime later the applicants were invited to take part in the criminal proceedings in the capacity of victims. on 14 february 2006 the applicants were allowed to exhume their son’s remains. two days later they buried him in belomorsk. on 6 june 2006 the primorskiy district court found mr o. guilty of having murdered the applicants’ son and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. 137755; the material in the above-mentioned criminal case file contains a copy of [the applicants’ son’s] passport; and so forth). it follows that the victims’ rights envisaged by the law in force were substantially violated in the course of the preliminary investigation. in 2007 the applicants lodged an action against the prosecutor general’s office and the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage. in addition, they had suffered non-pecuniary damage as they had been unaware of their son’s whereabouts for a long time and had been forced to initiate a search for him; they had been unable to properly say “goodbye” to their son and to provide him with a decent burial; they had been forced to go through a two-week bureaucratic procedure to obtain permission to exhume their son’s remains; and subsequently, after the exhumation, they had been forced to identify his disfigured remains. on 5 february 2008 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed the claim, having found that the investigator had not committed any unlawful actions and there had been no final decision by any domestic court establishing otherwise. on 20 may 2008 the moscow city court upheld the judgment, endorsing the district court’s reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in berehove. in the early hours of 22 august 2004 m. was robbed and killed in berehove, where the applicant was also living. it bears the applicant’s signature, with no comments. at about 4 p.m. on 22 august 2004, according to the applicant, and from 9 until 10 a.m. on that day, according to the official record, the applicant was questioned as a suspect by the investigator in the presence of b., a lawyer. the handwritten entry in the record furthermore stated that the applicant wanted to have b. as his lawyer and that he acknowledged in full his guilt in respect of the robbery and murder. during the questioning, the applicant provided details regarding the robbery and admitted that he had hit m. in the head with a bat during the robbery but that he had done so instinctively, in self-defence. according to the government, b. was apparently busy and was not able to participate in the reconstruction. no other lawyer was instructed to assist the applicant during this investigative step. during the reconstruction, which commenced near the place where the bat used for the murder had been hidden, the applicant pointed to the exact place where the bat was; the bat was then uncovered and retained as evidence. the verbatim record bears a handwritten “not” next to the following printed “agreed to testify”. the relevant part of the text is not visible on the copy of the record provided by the government. the applicant signed the record without indicating any objections as to its contents next to his signature. at an unspecified time on the same date st. on 23 august 2004 the investigator appointed b. to represent the applicant, and st., on 2 september 2004, and 20 and 28 january and 17 february 2005 the applicant was questioned in the presence of his defence lawyer but refused to give any evidence. on 19 january 2005 the prosecutors refused to institute a criminal investigation into the applicant’s allegation that he had been beaten up by the police, having found the police officers’ actions to be lawful. were also found guilty of robbery but acquitted of murder. he stated, in particular, that he had not been represented by the lawyer of his choice, s., on 22 and 23 august 2004, but by b., who had been appointed by the investigator against the applicant’s will. he further stated that he had not been assisted by any lawyer when he had been forced to confess during the crime reconstruction of 22 august 2004. on an unspecified date the applicant was released from prison.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in vigonza (padua). began engaging in obsessive behaviour and their relationship deteriorated. spent a week in hungary with their daughter. in december of the same year she again travelled to hungary with the baby. initially denied him access to his daughter. and pay 500 euros (eur) per month in child support. the applicant rejected this proposal and on 9 january 2012 returned to italy. alternatively, the child should be handed to the applicant or his proxy in budapest no later than 24 september 2012. of her parental authority and, like its hungarian counterpart, ordered the immediate return of the child to italy. on 23 january 2013 a european arrest warrant was issued against k.s. on 15 february 2013 the court bailiff sent a copy of the return order to the guardianship office of mezőtúr district in order to enable the said authority to serve it on k.s. ’s mother but they could not find anybody there either. on 4 march 2013 guardianship office staff again visited the registered permanent address of k.s. on 6 march 2013 the padua public prosecutor lodged by means of a letter rogatory an application with the budapest prosecutor’s office for judicial assistance. on 20 march 2013 the mezőtúr district court allowed an application lodged by k.s. the latter decision was upheld by szolnok high court on 4 december 2013. on 21 january 2014 an international search warrant was issued by the mezőtúr police. on 17 march 2014 the szolnok district court declared the judgment of the venice minors court (see paragraph 18 above) enforceable. was summoned as a suspect, but she failed to appear. the mezőtúr attorney-general lodged an appeal against this judgment with the szolnok high court.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in kranj. the swiss police established that some of the users owned and exchanged child pornography in the form of pictures or videos. on 12 december 2006 the police proposed that the kranj district state prosecutor’s office request the investigating judge of the kranj district court to issue an order demanding that the isp disclose both the personal data of the subscriber and traffic data linked to the ip address in question. on 26 november 2007 the kranj district prosecutor requested that a judicial investigation be opened against the applicant. on 21 march 2008 an interlocutory panel of the court rejected the appeal finding that, although counsel had argued that the identity of the user of the ip address had been obtained unlawfully, he had not requested that certain documents be excluded from the file. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed as unfounded. the most relevant parts of the constitutional court’s decision are as follows (as translated into english on the constitutional court’s website):
“review of the objections regarding access to the complainant’s ip address by the swiss police 11. in accordance with this view, in decision no. it entails individuals’ legitimate expectation that the state will leave them alone also in their communication through modern communication channels and that they do not necessary have to defend themselves for what they do, say, write or think. if there is a suspicion of a criminal offense the police must have the ability to identify the individuals who have participated in a certain communication related to an alleged criminal offense, because the perpetrators are harder to trace due to this principle of anonymity on the internet. traffic data signifies any data processed for the transmission of communications in an electronic communications network or for the billing thereof. the question therefore is whether such expectation of privacy was legitimate. ...
review of the objections regarding access to data on the user of a certain ip address 16. the complainant also challenges the standpoint of the supreme court that by its request to the service provider under the third paragraph of article 149.b of the cpa the police did not acquire traffic data, but only data regarding a particular user of a determined means of communication ... 17. in the case at issue, on 7 june 2006, on the basis of the third paragraph of article 149.b of the cpa, the police sent a request to the service provider for data regarding the user to whom ip address 195.210.223.200 was assigned on 20 february 2006 at 13:28. consequently, an individual could not enjoy separate and independent protection of traffic data. she also pointed out that under sections 166 and 168 of the new electronic communications act (“eca-1”, see paragraph 39 below), the internet provider was not allowed to transfer the stored information without a court order. she explained that the eca (sections 103(1(2)), 104(1) and 107 – see paragraphs 37 below) required internet providers to delete traffic data as soon as they were no longer needed for the transfer of messages. moreover, section 107 of the eca provided that the secrecy of communication could be interfered with only on the basis of a decision by a competent authority. a letter from the police to an internet provider could not be considered to amount to such a decision.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in istanbul. at the material time, the applicant was a civil servant in the metropolitan municipality of istanbul and a member of the local branch of the tümbel-sen trade union, which is affiliated to the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – the confederation of public employees’ trade unions). in april 2008 two of the largest trade unions, namely the di̇sk (devrimci i̇şçi sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of revolutionary workers’ trade unions) and the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions) announced that they were planning a large scale demonstration in istanbul for 1 may 2008 and that their members would be gathering to celebrate the labour day and to commemorate their friends who had lost their lives during the demonstrations of 1 may 1977. in may 2008 the applicant was informed that a disciplinary investigation had been initiated against him for being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 and he was asked to submit his defence submissions. the applicant explained that he had participated in a demonstration organised by his trade union on that day to celebrate international labour day. subsequently, the applicant was given a warning as a disciplinary sanction owing to his being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 pursuant to section 125 of the civil servants act (law no. on 13 may 2008 the applicant objected to the decision and requested its annulment. on 16 may 2008 the disciplinary board of the istanbul municipality dismissed the applicant’s objection, finding that the contested decision was in accordance with the law and that there were no grounds to annul it.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. he was the owner and the editor-in-chief of a publishing house, namely aram basım ve yayıncılık, at the time of the events giving rise to the present application. in june 2001 and march 2003 the applicant’s company published two books entitled dağlarda yaşamın dili (“the language of life in the mountains”) and tufanda 33 gün (“33 days in the deluge”), respectively. on 29 august 2001 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court charging the applicant with aiding and abetting the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, under article 169 of the former criminal code, on account of the publication of the book entitled the language of life in the mountains. on 24 july 2002 the istanbul state security court convicted the applicant as charged. on 1 may 2003 the court of cassation, on appeal, upheld the judgment of 24 july 2002. on 23 september 2003 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court requested that the court revise its judgment of 24 july 2002 since article 169 of the former criminal code had been amended on 7 august 2003. the istanbul state security court accepted that request. 5190 of 16 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. the case against the applicant concerning the book entitled the language of life in the mountains was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 30 april 2007 the istanbul assize court decided to join the proceedings concerning the language of life in the mountains and 33 days in the deluge. 3713) for disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk twice, because he had published two books, and sentenced him to a total of twenty months’ imprisonment. with regard to the publication of 33 days in the deluge, the assize court considered that on pages 129, 130 and 135 the pkk and its leader, abdullah öcalan, were praised and the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation had therefore been committed. 3713 on account of the publication of the language of life in the mountains and sentenced him to a fine. on 3 june 2013 the court of cassation quashed the first-instance judgment. on 13 november 2013 the istanbul assize court decided to suspend the execution of the sentence pronounced in its judgment of 7 december 2009. in the meantime, the istanbul assize court resumed the trial concerning the publication of 33 days in the deluge following the court of cassation’s decision of 25 june 2009. on 21 october 2009 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 for disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk on account of the publication of 33 days in the deluge and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment. the court held that the turns of phrase used on those pages were not protected by article 10 of the convention and constituted an abuse of the right to freedom of expression.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in novska. he was instructed by the novska police that he should regularise his status in kosovo, where he had been officially registered. on 22 february 1989 the applicant was interviewed by the novska police in connection with the ministry of the interior’s instruction. the permit was valid until 31 december 1992. in his interview, the applicant explained that he had albanian nationality as he had been a refugee from that country. he also had a brother living in kosovo and another brother living at an unknown place in albania. he explained that he was a national of albania and that he had been living in croatia since 1979. he also explained that he was employed as a car mechanic. meanwhile, the applicant had obtained a permit for extended residence of a foreigner (he was considered to be an albanian citizen) from the novska police for the period between september 1993 and september 1994, which was first extended until september 1995 and then january 1996. the report also indicated that the applicant’s parents had died and that he had two sisters, who lived in germany and belgium. on 29 may 1996 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s administrative action on the grounds that there was no evidence that he had had a registered residence in croatia since 1979. on 13 november 2001 the applicant asked the ministry to grant him a permanent residence permit. a report on the applicant’s personal circumstances prepared by the novska police on 24 april 2002 indicated that the applicant was a national of the federal republic of yugoslavia (serbia and montenegro – hereinafter “the fry”). he wanted to stay in novska because there he knew a lot of people and would be able to make a living there. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the decisions of the lower bodies. meanwhile, the applicant obtained a note from m.r., in the period between 1981 and 1991 and that during the war in croatia he had worked for z.a. he argued that he had had sfry citizenship, which he had lost in unclear circumstances following the dissolution of that country. on 30 january 2015 the ministry dismissed the applicant’s appeal. according to the ministry, this showed that he had not been erased from the relevant registers without being informed.
in 2006 the applicant moved to norway after marrying c, an iraqi national who had come to norway in 1999. on 7 april 2009 the emergency unit at the child welfare authorities in f. municipality received a request to assist the police with an incident in which the applicant and c were having a heated argument in the presence of their child. on 17 july 2009 the applicant and a moved back in with c. the child welfare authorities closed the case, but reopened it after the applicant’s lawyer raised concerns (“bekymringsmelding”) and stated that mother and child still had great need of the authorities’ help. on the same day, 18 november 2010, the applicant went to the crisis centre in o. at a meeting held there on 23 november 2010 she stated that she never wanted to return to c. the child welfare authorities emphasised that she could not have any contact with him once the children were returned to her. a specialist in child and adolescent psychology, as a private expert to observe contact sessions between the applicant and the children. among other things, the city court referred to the fact that the applicant under the hearing had made herself unavailable to her counsel, but not to c. the city court stated that the abduction risk might possibly be regarded differently when the criminal case against c had been heard by the court. the applicant was present with her legal aid counsel and gave evidence. there was limited updated information about the applicant’s situation at the time of the board’s decision, but it was clear that she had been granted a divorce from c. she had also passed a norwegian language course and established a small social network in g. seen in isolation, her ability to provide care thus appeared to have improved somewhat since the high court hearing. based on the presentation of evidence, the board agreed with the expert that his concerns regarding the risk had not been assuaged during the hearing before the board. the board had been informed that the foster families had to clear all visits outside the municipality with the police. she knew that she had another mother who loved her, but her strong attachment was to her foster home. adoption was a highly invasive measure and, pursuant to case-law, particularly compelling reasons were required for consent to adoption to be granted against the biological parents’ wishes. 52502/07, 28 october 2010 and paragraph 117 below):
“in my opinion, a clear distinction cannot be drawn between general experience and individual considerations; general experience can be expressed with varying degrees of nuance, for example, based on the child’s age when it was placed in the foster home and how long the placement has lasted and will last. the board observed that the child welfare authorities had not proposed that there be an order on contact visits following the children’s adoption, because of the security situation, and the applicant had argued that failing to ask the foster parents whether they would consent to her having contact constituted a procedural error. there was no doubt that c had committed serious violence against the applicant in the presence of the girls on a number of occasions. the abduction that their own father had put them through must have been a very frightening experience for them, one whose after-effects they were still struggling with. a and b have a history and display behaviour that means that they can no longer be assumed to just have the same ordinary care needs as other children their age. the risk of this would increase significantly if the applicant were granted contact with her daughters again. however, one should not underestimate the will the father has demonstrated to get his children back. both parents appealed to the high court against the city court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in rijeka. at that time she had twenty-four years and ten months of service (radni staž) recorded in her “employment book” (radna knjižica). the medical documents from various dates show her continuous incapacity of working. on 5 november 1996 the regional office of the croatian employment bureau in rijeka (hrvatski zavod za zapošljavanje, područna služba u rijeci, hereinafter “the rijeka employment bureau”) granted the applicant unemployment benefits in the amount of 410.89 croatian kunas (hrk – about 55 euros (eur)) for 468 days, starting from 11 december 1995. she submitted a medical certificate that she had been ill and thus temporarily incapable of working. she was to receive hrk 441 (about eur 59) per month. this entitlement was to continue unless any legally prescribed conditions for withholding the payments occurred before the entitlement period expired, or until her right to compensation ceased to exist. such contributions are regularly paid by employers. however, that body dismissed both her appeals as unfounded on 11 may 2001 and 15 may 2001. she claimed that she had twenty-seven years of service, and as such was entitled to unemployment benefits until she was next employed or until she retired. it instructed the parties to seek relief in civil proceedings before a competent municipal court. on 25 march 2005 the rijeka employment bureau contacted the applicant by letter, proposing to reach an out-of-court settlement within fifteen days regarding the repayment of the unemployment benefits which she had received between 9 june 1998 and 27 march 2001, in total hrk 19,451.69. it was dismissed on 29 june 2009 and this decision was upheld on appeal on 10 july 2009 as well as by the high administrative court on 5 july 2012. a subsequent constitutional complaint by the applicant was declared inadmissible on 19 december 2012. on 16 november 2005 the applicant responded to the civil action, alleging, inter alia, that the rijeka employment bureau’s actions violated her human rights. she also submitted medical documentation demonstrating her fragile state of health, numerous health problems caused by her difficult personal situation due to long-term unemployment, the poverty in which she and her family lived, and her inability to work. it also allowed the rijeka employment bureau’s appeal and, relying on section 210 of the civil obligations act, reversed the first-instance judgment in respect of the unjust enrichment claim, and ordered the applicant to pay hrk 19,451.69 plus statutory interest running form 3 august 2005 (the date of lodging the claim against the applicant) to the rijeka employment bureau. the applicant then lodged both an appeal on points of law and a constitutional complaint. by a conclusion (zaključak) of 30 september 2013 the rijeka municipal court informed the rijeka employment bureau about the financial agency’s letter and ordered it to give the court information about the applicant’s bank account or make a further proposal. the enforcement proceedings are still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in łomża. on 7 august 2010 the applicant had a motorcycle accident in which he broke his right arm and right thigh. between 13 and 22 december 2010 the applicant underwent an arthroscopy on his right knee. between 25 january and 15 february 2011 the applicant underwent rehabilitation treatment in łomża regional hospital and during this stay no dysfunction was diagnosed in his right foot. subsequently, between 28 march and 26 july 2011, he was detained in białystok remand centre. while in prison, he was examined three times (on 1 and 18 april and on 13 may 2011) by an orthopaedist, who observed that the applicant required physical therapy in the light of a limitation of his knee-joint movement, the atrophy of a thigh muscle, and an injury to a peroneal nerve. the applicant never received any physical therapy during his imprisonment, instead being offered only nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines. on an unspecified date, but not later than 27 march 2012, the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury/białystok remand centre for infringement of his personal rights, claiming that the prison healthcare system had failed to provide him with appropriate medical care during his detention and, moreover, that the cells had not met the minimum spatial requirement of 3 square metres per person and had been mouldy and infested with insects. he requested 200,000 polish zlotys (pln) in compensation, the equivalent of approximately 48,300 euros (eur). on 20 january 2014 the białystok regional court granted the applicant pln 23,000 (approximately eur 5,550) and dismissed the remainder of his action. however, he had not been given any, either in prison or outside, which had resulted in a deterioration of his health. the court established that, due to the lack of physical therapy, the applicant had suffered atrophy of the thigh muscle and foot drop affecting his right foot. the court emphasised that the applicant had not been offered proper treatment despite a worsening of his symptoms. the court held that the applicant had suffered physical pain of significant seriousness, which, in turn, had had negative psychological consequences. the court therefore found the applicant’s claim for compensation for lack of adequate medical care partly justified. the claim concerning the alleged overcrowding and inadequate sanitary conditions was dismissed in full. the court also ordered the applicant to reimburse pln 3,186 (eur 766) for the costs of the defendant’s legal representation and pln 10,932 (eur 2,628) in court fees (in total: pln 14,118 (eur 3,394)). the applicant did not lodge an appeal against the first-instance judgment. the applicant was not ordered to pay the court fees for the proceedings before that court. this court pointed out that in the experts’ opinions it was not specified, even approximately, what the effects of the negligence might be, how much longer the rehabilitation process would take, or how much stronger the pain had become in comparison to pain experienced previously by the applicant.
on an unspecified date, he contracted non‑reversible ischemia, which resulted in septic gangrene and the subsequent amputation of his right leg at the hip. on that date he was transferred to korydallos prison, where he stayed until 30 december 2013. he was subsequently transferred to larissa prison, where he remained until 25 november 2014. the applicant submitted that the conditions of his detention in omonoia police station, where he had remained for a period of twenty‑seven days, had been very poor. there had been only one shower and two floor-level toilets, one of which had not functioned. he had not been provided with hygiene or cleaning products, nor had he had access to medical care despite his disability and the wounds to his leg, which had become worse owing to the conditions in which he had been detained. there had been no outdoor exercise or other occupational activities and, owing to the lack of space within the cell and his disability, the applicant had spent all day sitting on the cement bench. he had not had any access to a telephone or to any form of recreational activity such as television or radio. on 28 may 2013 the applicant was transferred to korydallos prison, where he was initially admitted to the prison hospital for two days. his admission note recorded “right leg amputated ‒ unable to meet his own needs; ulcerated left tibia”. on 30 may 2013 he was discharged from the prison hospital. it was not adapted to his needs and its shape had made it very difficult for him to use, having only one limb. the applicant argued that his medical situation had required him to be detained in a hospital; however, this had not been arranged, apart from the two days he had spent in the prison hospital upon his transfer to korydallos. the applicant submitted that he had not received appropriate medical treatment, that he had not been regularly monitored by a doctor, and that at no time had he been admitted to a hospital with access to nursing staff who would have taken appropriate measures to ensure that his needs were met. the cell had been regularly cleaned and was intended for short-term detention only. the wing had had a common room measuring 140 sq. the ward had four squat toilets and a sitting toilet, used by detainees with disabilities. meals had been designed with the assistance of the prison doctor and special dietary needs had been accommodated. there had been two psychologists at the prison who could be consulted at either the doctors’ initiative or the detainees’ request. as regards his medical treatment, the applicant had been monitored by the prison doctors and had occasionally been transferred to larissa hospital.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in vsesvyatskaya. the exact number of copies of each issue is unknown. an article headlined “accomplices to the murderers of the chechen people” (“о соучастниках убийства чеченского народа”), authored by a third person, commented on the hostage-taking at the dubrovka theatre in moscow in october 2002 and contained the following paragraph:
“i, as a national of the chechen republic of ichkeriya (cri), who is daily suffering from the russian state terror, can understand the reasons which pushed chechen patriots to this extraordinary act. his life was an example of how one should fight against russia. his life and death are a guarantee that damned imperial russia will be destroyed and the chechens and all other peoples oppressed by it will finally obtain freedom. hence, the rubicon has been crossed, the choice has been made and there is no room to back off – we no longer have any other family than all peoples oppressed by ‘our’ empire, than partisans fighting to be freed from its yoke, than famous warlords like basayev and political parties which claim monetary compensation [from russia] for their occupation and return of the territories russia has annexed ...” 22. in an article entitled “no comments” the applicant stated:
“... putin’s cheap propaganda can jabber as long as it wishes that maskhadov is a bandit and that he is responsible for the ‘nord-ost’ [theatre siege] and the recent explosions in tushino[7]. lawful elections of the president of the cri under the constitution of the cri of 1992 will only be possible when the cri army, headed by commander-in-chief maskhadov, defeats occupying russia’s illegal armed groups of the ministry of defence, the ministry of the interior and the federal security service, and chucks them out of the territory of independent ichkeriya ...” 25. it also stated:
“in chechnya the russian army stopped existing as a military force of the state, having, once and for all, turned itself into a frenzied gang of looters and murderers; a herd intoxicated with drugs.” пустят ли россию на летнюю олимпиаду в афинах?”) when will the chechen people be freed and rehabilitated?” ( когда будет освобожден и реабилитирован чеченский народ?) on 18 december 2003 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant on suspicion that the views expressed in the radikalnaya politika newsletter amounted to appeals to extremist activities and incitement to racial, national, social and other hatred. he confirmed that he had been the editor-in-chief and publisher of the radikalnaya politika newsletter but argued that he had printed the newsletter only for himself and had not distributed it. in his words, he had never called for extremist activities or violent overthrow of the existing political regime in russia; he had only called for a change of the leadership in the country. the expert confirmed his conclusions made in the report. 1 (27) (see paragraph 16 above) and in issue no. the district court further referred to the texts in eight issues of the applicant’s newsletter published in the column entitled “good news” (see paragraph 35 above). however, in the court’s words, “the content of the article [did] not correspond to its title, because it concern[ed] an isolated case (a statement that “jesus christ was crucified not by jews but by chechens”, contained in a booklet called “foundations of the orthodox faith”); this isolated case [was] generalised from and represented as a typical situation of orthodox believers by virtue of using the impugned heading”. as regards the punishment to be imposed on the applicant, the district court had regard to the state of his health and the fact that he had no criminal record, had positive references and had a dependant mother.
the applicants, mr ömer yaman (first applicant), mr mustafa ürek (second applicant), and mr kerem bilen (third applicant) were born in 1956, 1967 and 1977 respectively. they were subsequently interrogated by the gendarmes in the absence of a lawyer. in their statements, the applicants accepted the charges against them and gave a detailed account of their involvement in the pkk (the workers’ party of kurdistan, an illegal organisation). the first and second applicants were provided with an interpreter during their interrogation. before the public prosecutor and the judge, the applicants denied the charges against them. they further stated that they had signed their gendarmerie statements without reading them. following the questioning, the investigating judge remanded the applicants in custody. on 2 july 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court and accused the applicants of carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, under article 125 of the criminal code. in their defence submissions before the trial court, the applicants retracted the statements they had allegedly made during the preliminary investigation stage. they submitted that the gendarmes had made them sign their statements without reading them. it further sentenced the applicants to life imprisonment. in convicting them, the court had regard to the applicants’ statements taken by the gendarmes. on 25 march 2003 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court on the ground that during the trial certain witness statements, which had been taken on commission before other courts, had not been read out to the applicants for comment during the trial. the case was accordingly remitted to the diyarbakır state security court. in the meantime, state security courts were abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and therefore, the case against the applicants was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. at the end of the trial, the diyarbakır assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced them to life imprisonment. 5297) provided more favourable provisions for the applicants. on 25 october 2005 the diyarbakır assize court once again convicted the applicants under article 125 of the former criminal court, finding that this provision was more favourable to them than the corresponding provision of the new criminal code. on 11 december 2007 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in oslo, norway. on 26 april 2000 criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant and one other person in connection with a traffic accident which had resulted in death of a child. on 25 february 2003 the court of first instance in podgorica convicted the applicant for endangering public traffic and sentenced him and his co-accused to one year and six months’ imprisonment. on an unspecified date in 2006 the high court in podgorica quashed this judgment and remitted case back to the court of first instance. on 18 april 2007 the court of first instance adopted a new judgment and again convicted the applicant and his co-accused. but the court reduced the sentence to one year and four months’ imprisonment. on 13 november 2009 the high court further reduced the sentence of the applicant’s co-accused, but upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in respect of the applicant. the applicant’s subsequent appeal against the judgment of the high court was rejected on 14 june 2010. following that rejection, on an unspecified date in 2010, the applicant lodged a further appeal on points of law (zahtjev za ispitivanje zakonitosti pravosnažne presude) with the supreme court. on 26 october 2010 the supreme court rejected this appeal. on 11 december 2010 the applicant lodged an action for fair redress (tužba za pravično zadovoljenje) with the supreme court, complaining about the overall length of criminal proceedings. on 19 april 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s ultimate appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1967 in the tajikistan soviet socialist republic of the soviet union and came to russia in 1993. on 31 july 2014 the applicant was arrested for vagrancy. the decision described the applicant as being “a native (уроженец) of the tajikistan republic”. by letters dated 11 august and 18 november 2014, the federal migration service asked the embassy of tajikistan in moscow to issue a laissez-passer document enabling the applicant’s return to tajikistan. on an unspecified date the applicant was fingerprinted. it was discovered that he had been registered in the police database under a different name. on 11 february 2015 the federal migration service used that name to request a laissez-passer from the embassy of tajikistan. on 10 september 2015 the federal migration service again attempted to obtain a travel document for the applicant using his original name. on 28 july 2016 the governor of the detention centre asked the kalininskiy district court to discontinue the enforcement of the judgment on the ground that the two-year limitation period in respect of the applicant’s offence had expired. on 29 july 2016 the district court granted the application. the applicant was released on 13 august 2016. while in detention, the applicant was held in standard six-person cells (cells 509, 402, 516 and 615) measuring 27.4 square metres which were furnished with three two-tier bunk beds, six bed stands, six chairs and a table. between october 2014 and february 2015 he was also held in a smaller cell (cell 514, 13 sq. m, two beds) and a larger cell (cell 315, 40.2 sq. cell 402, in which he stayed from february to september 2015, was a so-called “closed cell”. the steel door with a peephole and a hatch for serving food remained under lock at all times and he was not allowed to leave the cell, except for short and infrequent outdoor exercise. for the first two months, he had been alone in that cell. the applicant complained about dim lighting, poor quality of food, insufficient outdoor exercise in cramped conditions, a lack of medical assistance and a shortage of meaningful activities. the government disputed the applicant’s allegations and submitted copies of contracts with the catering, cleaning and laundering companies and a copy of visitors’ register from the medical unit.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived in nizhniy novgorod. on the same day the nizhegorodskiy district police department of nizhniy novgorod opened a criminal case into the robbery. the applicant’s account of the subsequent events is as follows. the police officers pulled the rope to contort the applicant into a painful position, then sat on his back and jumped on him. on 22 june 2004 the applicant was taken from sizo-1 to the police station. he stated that as a result of the violence he had confessed to a crime which he had never committed in a “statement of surrender and confession” which had been dictated to him by the police officers and s. 18. on the same day the applicant, who had received no response to his previous complaint, lodged another complaint with the head of the remand centre stating that he had been beaten up at the police station on 28 june 2004, as a result of which he had sustained contusions to his ribcage and abrasions. he was repeatedly visited by the police, in particular officers ch. he was allowed short-term visits from his wife on 13 august and 24 september 2004. after the visits he had to seek others’ help to get to his cell and looked very oppressed. handed the statement over to b. later that day two convicts, a.v. after the applicant had been coerced into giving several confession statements in a row he was no longer threatened and beaten up and soon left the colony. in september 2004 the applicant, who was not a convicted prisoner like the others, was transferred to his unit. on repeated occasions he was called for interviews by officers from the orb police unit. on one occasion three convicts, v., b. and z., took him to a storage room. g. heard them yelling at the applicant and threatening him, demanding that he confess to some crimes and write confession statements as requested by the police officers. after that incident the applicant had several fresh bruises on his face. and s. denying any ill‑treatment of the applicant. on 8 april 2005 a deputy prosecutor from the sukhobezvodnenskaya prosecutor’s office, which supervised law observance in penal facilities, refused to institute criminal proceedings into the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment in ik-14, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (1) of code of criminal procedure for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed. had learnt from the applicant that the visitors had been the police.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in bukhara, uzbekistan. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 2003 his father, mother, brother and sister moved to vladivostok in russia and subsequently acquired russian nationality, while he continued to live with his grandfather in bukhara, visiting them in the summer months. after his grandfather had died and the applicant had finished the secondary school, in june 2011 he joined his family in russia. the applicant took a mandatory blood test with a view to obtaining a health certificate to support his application for a temporary residence permit. on 23 september 2011 the consumer protection authority declared the applicant’s presence in russian undesirable (the “exclusion order”) on the ground that he was hiv-positive. by judgment of 19 december 2011, the sovetskiy district court in vladivostok rejected the applicant’s challenge to the exclusion order, finding that it was issued in full compliance with russian law. on 13 february 2012 the primorskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 22 february 2012 the applicant left russia to comply with the exclusion order.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in opaci. on 29 july 2009, the applicant was celebrating his birthday with a group of friends by a lake when they were attacked by s. who was intoxicated and carrying a hunting rifle. s. was angry because the applicant and his friends had allegedly ill-treated his uncle earlier. during the conflict, s. hit one of the applicant’s friends with the barrel of his gun and fired four gunshots at the group’s cars parked nearby. the applicant attempted to prevent s. from continuing shooting but was shot from a distance of some five metres into his right calf. the applicant’s repeated attempts to disarm s. resulted in his receiving two more gunshots from a very short distance into his already wounded leg. as a result of the attack the applicant sustained serious injuries to his right leg which led to amputation of his leg above the knee. on 31 july 2009 criminal proceedings were instituted against s. on charges of hooliganism with the use of a firearm resulting in the causing of severe harm to the applicant’s health. between 1 and 10 august 2009 twenty-five witnesses were questioned and by 12 september 2009 most of the investigative measures were completed. on 12 august 2009 s. was declared a suspect in the criminal proceedings and on 29 december 2009 he was indicted. on 12 january 2010 s. was heard as an accused. he acknowledged his guilt, but refused to make any declarations. between march and december 2010 the anenii noi police conducted a new investigation into the circumstances of the case and carried out again all the investigative measures. on 14 december 2010 the case-file was transmitted to the anenii noi prosecutor’s office with the proposal to be remitted to a court for consideration. on 20 december 2010 both the applicant and his representative were notified of the completion of the criminal investigation. on 30 december 2010 the prosecutor’s office decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings against s. the prosecutor’s office found that according to article 63(2) of the code of criminal procedure, a person’s status as suspect cannot be maintained longer than three months. since s. was indicted on 29 december 2009, that is four months and seventeen days later, the indictment was unlawful. therefore, all charges against s. were dropped and the proceedings discontinued. on 31 march 2011 the rascani district court upheld s.’s objection against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 february 2011, ordering its annulment. the applicant and his representative were not summoned or informed about the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in istanbul. he and a woman in the hotel were both taken to the gendarmerie headquarters. on 3 october 2004 the gendarmerie questioned several men as suspects and five women as victims. they all confirmed that they had been staying at the hotel for prostitution purposes. some of the women were asked whether they knew of any complicity between the traffickers and the management of sancak hotel, to which they responded in the negative. on 4 october 2004 the applicant gave statements to the gendarmerie. he denied having provided premises for prostitution. on 30 may 2005 the büyükçekmece public prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant and three other persons. on 1 june 2005 the misdemeanours act (law no. 5326) and the new code of criminal procedure (law no. establishing that the accused had provided premises for prostitution in their hotels, it held that the applicant had failed to obey the orders of an official authority as charged and should be punished accordingly. it then sentenced him to an administrative fine of 100 turkish liras (try)[1] pursuant to section 32 of the misdemeanours act (law no. he maintained that he accepted clients into his hotel in compliance with the relevant regulation and that he could not be expected to refuse to offer accommodation to foreign nationals or to question their motives for staying there. it was indicated on the envelope that the applicant was invited to a hearing concerning his case, which would be held on 10 july 2006. the envelope did not show any confirmation that the letter had been served on him. in support of his claim, he submitted a copy of the assize court’s decision, on which a lawyer working at his office had noted that he had been served with the copy in person on that date. that document was later stamped and certified as an authentic copy by the registry of the domestic court. the parties did not respond to that request. on 3 november 2017 the government were once again asked to provide documents regarding the commencement of the six-month time‑limit, in particular the content of the envelope from the büyükçekmece magistrates’ court dated 24 may 2006 and the document in support of the public prosecutor’s claim that the final decision had been served on the applicant on 26 may 2006. on 30 november 2017 the government informed the court that they could not find the requested documents.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in kaliningrad. he lapsed into a coma a week later, and died on 1 february 2007. on the third blow the bat had struck a wall and had broken into two pieces. on 15 february 2007 an investigator of the district prosecutor’s office issued a decision refusing the institution of criminal proceedings against v., being of the opinion that v. had acted in necessary self-defence. on 14 march 2007 v. was charged with homicide committed as a result of exceeding the limits of necessary self-defence (article 108 § 1 of the criminal code). upon his arrival at the police station the police officers, having assessed the victim’s medical condition as critical, called an ambulance for him. on 29 december 2007 the chief investigator from the kaliningrad investigative division of the investigation department of the investigative committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the kaliningrad region (“the kaliningrad investigative division”) discontinued the criminal proceedings, having arrived at the conclusion that the injuries resulting in the death of the applicant’s son on 1 february 2007 had been inflicted by v. as actions of necessary self-defence. subsequently, between 23 february 2008 and 29 october 2009 the criminal proceedings were discontinued and resumed on nine occasions. who had received information about the fight and had seen the applicant’s son brought to the police station in a state of alcoholic intoxication, with a lacerated wound in the region of one eye and several abrasions, following which an ambulance had been called to take him to hospital; he submitted that nobody in his presence had subjected the applicant’s son to any beatings;
-  similar statements by duty officer ser.; who had heard about the fight from v.;
-  statements by witness mot., on 16 december 2008 the applicant’s son’s clothes were seized from the applicant for expert examination. on 22 january 2010 a forensic medical examination by an expert commission was ordered. on unspecified dates the applicant and the witnesses were questioned for a second time and confirmed their previous statements. on 6 july 2012 the acting head of the moskovskiy district of the kaliningrad investigative division set aside the decision of 21 february 2012. on 24 july 2008 the investigator of the kaliningrad investigative division again issued a decision refusing the institution of criminal proceedings against officers. the district court established that no fresh inquiry had been conducted and that the instructions given in the decision of 14 july 2008 had not been complied with. on 18 november 2008 the kaliningrad regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the decision of 26 september 2008 on appeal. on 19 august 2010 the district court found the above decision lawful. on 31 march 2009 the tsentralniy district court of kaliningrad dismissed the applicant’s claims. on 20 may 2009 the kaliningrad regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. on 8 march 2002 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 9 march 2002 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during the interrogation, the applicant gave a detailed account of her acts within the illegal organisation pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party). on 11 march 2002 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant partially retracted her previous statements maintaining that she had given statements to the police under duress. on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre‑trial detention. on 18 march 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code. at a hearing held on 31 may 2002, the applicant gave evidence in person in the presence of her lawyer. she stated that she had left turkey through her own means and that she went to romania, bulgaria, greece and iran with the help of the people whose names she could not remember anymore. she further stated that she had stayed in camps in greece and iran. while she was at the camp in iran she was not involved in many activities owing to her young age. she further maintained that she had wanted to return to turkey due to her health condition and for family reasons. she further stated that she had turned back to turkey through the mountains with the help of people who knew the area well. while the applicant was staying at her elder sister’s house, she was arrested by the police. the applicant also claimed that she did not know any of the other accused in the case and that she had not received any training in the camps. lastly, she stated that she had been called the code name “ariel” at the camp in iran. when asked about her statements to the public prosecutor, she denied them except for the parts concerning her travel. when asked about her statements to the investigating judge, she denied them claiming once again that the police had put pressure on her. on 23 december 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in perm. on 9 april 2007 at about 11 p.m. the applicant was stopped by the police and taken to the dzerzhinskiy district department of the interior of the town of perm (дзержинский ровд г. перми – “the police station”) for an identity check. on 10 april 2007 at 1 a.m. the applicant was placed in the cell for administrative detainees at the police station. another police officer), as a witness in criminal case no. 1470 instituted on 8 march 2007 under article 161 § 2 of the criminal code (robbery). after his questioning the applicant was released. immediately after his release on 10 april 2007 the applicant complained at the police station of having been beaten by p. 11. on the same day the applicant went to a traumatology centre, where he was diagnosed with bruising on the left side of his forehead. he was made to undergo an expert examination, which revealed the following injuries: bruises on the left side of his forehead, at the outer corner of his left eye and on the left side of his neck, and an abrasion behind his left ear. on 9 june 2007 the investigator of the dzerzhinskiy district prosecutor’s office of the town of perm decided not to institute criminal proceedings against p., in the absence of any indication that a criminal act had been committed. on 27 june 2007 the applicant challenged the above-mentioned decision before the court. on 2 july 2007 the dzerzhinskiy district court of perm (“the district court”) declined to examine the applicant’s challenge. on 9 october 2007 the district court held that the decision of 9 june 2007 not to institute criminal proceedings against p. had been unlawful and unjustified. had been diagnosed as having such injuries immediately after his release from the police station. on 13 november 2007 the regional court quashed the judgment of 9 october 2007 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh examination by a different bench. on 29 november 2007 the district court again held that the decision of 9 june 2007 not to institute criminal proceedings against p. had been unlawful and unjustified. the court’s reasoning was similar to that in respect of the judgment of 9 october 2007. the court found that the investigator had rightly come to the conclusion that there had been no objective information confirming the applicant’s allegation of ill-treatment by the police officer, p., and that the above-mentioned conclusion had been reached on the basis of comprehensive evidence. following an appeal by the applicant, on 19 february 2008 the regional court upheld the above-mentioned judgment on appeal.
the municipal authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. in 1977 a number of flats in a residential building located at 15-3 ulitsa tsyurupy, moscow, were assigned by the city of moscow to the ministry of communications. the flats were used as temporary housing for foreign specialists seconded to the ministry. in 1991 the flats were transferred to the rostelekom open joint stock company, the ministry’s successor. on 18 february 2009 the flats were transferred from rostelekom to the city of moscow. it appears that the flats remained vacant. the relevant property deeds were forged by notary k. and then registered by the city registration department. then the “heirs” sold the flats to private parties. subsequently the flats were bought by the applicants. each transaction with the flats was reviewed and approved by the city registration department. on 8 august 2012 a criminal investigation was opened into the city’s loss of title to the flats. on 7 december 2012 the housing department of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) was recognised as a victim of the crime. on 9 december 2013 the perovskiy district court of moscow found nine defendants, including several rostelekom employees, guilty of fraud. according to the government, notary k. was also found guilty of fraud and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. in 2014 the housing department brought civil actions seeking restitution of the flats. the court invalidated the transactions in respect of the flats and the applicants’ title to the flats and ordered their eviction. the moscow city court upheld the judgments of the district court on appeal. 4919/16), the city court discerned no evidence in the material of the case file that would substantiate her claim that she had bought the flat in good faith. in the city court’s view, ms titova, if having acted with due care and diligence, should have had doubts as to the legitimacy of seller’s title and sale of the flat. the details pertaining to each case are summed up in appendix ii below.
the applicant was born in 1980 in abakan, the khakassiya republic. the applicant stood accused of theft and murder. on 22 november 2004 the sayanogorsk town court in khakassiya fixed, in the hearing held without the applicant’s attendance, the opening date for the trial and ordered an extension of his pre-trial detention. on 2 december 2004 the applicant was convicted and given a custodial sentence. on 22 march 2005 the constitutional court held, in unrelated proceedings, that the provisions of the code of criminal procedure ought to be interpreted as guaranteeing the right of the defendant to take part in the hearing where the matter of detention was decided, to make submissions to the court and to produce evidence (judgment no. on 8 august 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the khakassiya republic quashed the town court’s decision of 22 november 2004 in the part relating to the detention matter. referring to the case-law of the constitutional court, it found that the district court had unlawfully extended the applicant’s detention without giving him an opportunity to take part in the hearing or to make submissions to the court. the applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for the unlawful detention from 22 november to 2 december 2004. by judgment of 16 september 2013, as upheld on appeal on 27 november 2013, the abakan town court rejected his claim, holding that he was not eligible for compensation in respect of pre-trial detention because he had been found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in moscow. on 23 july 2008 and 31 may 2012 the applicant gave birth to two children, a son and a daughter respectively. took the children to the republic of ingushetiya without the applicant knowing. on 25 june 2014 the district court decided that the children should reside with their mother, the applicant. to return the children to her and pay child maintenance. the judgment became final on 14 october 2014. on 10 november 2014 the district court issued a writ of execution. however, since neither the applicant nor her representative were present, the enforcement could not take place. according to the applicant, she was never informed of the enforcement dates scheduled for 22 june, 6 july, 13 july, 27 july and 19 august 2015. on 6 october and 20 october 2015 a bailiff from the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service in moscow ordered r.m. on 23 october 2015 the deputy chief bailiff of the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service imposed an administrative fine on r.m. on 10 november 2015 the bailiff imposed an execution fee on r.m. of rub 5,000 for failure to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014. of rub 1,000 for failure to comply with the lawful demands of the bailiffs. ’s travel in view of his failure to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014, and ordered him to pay the imposed administrative fines. was invited to the bailiffs’ office on 19 january 2016 to provide explanations for his reluctance to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014, and was ordered to comply by 20 january 2016. according to the government, on 5 may 2016 the bailiff informed the applicant that the enforcement was scheduled for 10 a.m. on 19 may 2016 at the children’s place of residence in the republic of ingushetiya. it appears from the case file that the notification of 5 may 2016 was sent to r.m. the judgment of 25 june 2014 remains unenforced to date. the children continue to live with their paternal grandparents in the republic of ingushetiya.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in bălți. on 5 february 2011 at 1.30 p.m. the applicant was arrested on suspicion of trafficking in human beings and placed in detention for a period of seventy-two hours, which is the maximum duration of detention under the moldovan law before a detainee is brought before a judge. on 8 february 2011 at 10.20 a.m. the prosecutor applied to a judge for the applicant’s remand in custody and at 2 p.m. the applicant was brought before a judge, who ordered his remand in custody for thirty days. it is not clear at what time the decision was adopted, but there is a handwritten note on it which states it had been presented to the applicant at 3.50 p.m., followed by the applicant’s signature. the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued, inter alia, that the detention which had taken place before the court’s decision of 8 february 2011 had been longer than seventy-two hours, which was the maximum duration provided for by law. he also submitted that he had not been given access to the materials in the case-file relied upon by the prosecutor when requesting his remand in custody. on 17 february 2011 the bălți court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court did not pay attention to the applicant’s allegation that he had no access to the materials in the case-file. on 5 march 2011 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to a judge for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention for another thirty days. a judge examined and upheld it on the same date. he ordered the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2011. on an unspecified date, the same judge issued a new decision rectifying the date of the validity of the applicant’s order for remand in custody from 6 march to 6 april 2011. on 16 march 2011 the bălți court of appeal upheld the applicant’s appeal and quashed the decision of the lower court, after having found that the second decision modifying the date from 6 march to 6 april 2011 had not been taken in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the code of criminal procedure. the court found therefore that the applicant’s detention had been unlawful since 6 march and ordered his immediate release. it appears from the materials contained in the case file that the applicant has been convicted at first instance and that the proceedings are still pending before the bălți court of appeal. according to the information provided by the parties, the applicant is currently wanted by the authorities.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in lobnya, moscow region. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. according to him, he was beaten up by the police as they were dispersing the demonstration. after the events of 6 may 2012 the applicant continued to live at his usual address and pursue his studies. on 5 september 2012 the moscow city court upheld that decision. on 7 december 2012 the investigator of the zamoskvoretskiy inter‑district investigation committee of moscow refused to open a criminal case into allegations made by the applicant that he had been subjected to ill‑treatment by the police during his arrest. the investigator considered that the use of force by the police had been justified by the behaviour of the protesters, including the applicant, who had actively resisted their arrest and thrown various objects at the police officers. on 22 april 2013 the moscow city court authorised a further extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 6 july 2013. the decision concerned eleven defendants. however, the district court did not consider that guarantee and ordered that the applicant and his co-defendants be detained until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them. on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld that extension order. according to the applicant, prison cell no. according to the government, all of the cells had sanitary units with wash stands and the necessary furniture. the applicant had been able to shower once a week and entitled to one hour of outdoor exercise per day. from mid-september 2013 to the end of 2013 the hearings continued in hearing room no. 303 at the nikulinskiy district court of moscow. he testified that at some point he had been surrounded by the crowd and subjected to violence. as nothing was happening on the stage, [the applicant] decided to return ... when leaving the venue he saw the police officers randomly arresting people while hitting them with truncheons ... [the applicant] was hit in the back three times with a truncheon. as no further correspondence had been received from the applicant, on 28 august 2013 the registry of the court asked him whether he was still being represented by mr d. and reminded him to return the completed application form.
the first applicant, unifaun theatre productions limited, is a limited liability company which produces theatrical performances in maltese theatres. the relevant fee was paid and a clean copy of the script submitted. the latter names added by means of an asterisk). no reasons were provided by the chairperson. they considered the defendants responsible for any damage suffered. in the evening of the same day, the applicants and their legal counsel were summoned for questioning at the police headquarters. what then ensues is a very violent and dark relationship, a kind of a punishment of themselves, confessions of their guilt. i felt that that would be needlessly offensive for people however another director might chose to do so. ... replied that she was not shocked because she could not dissociate her female gender from her being a psychologist. another priest (who read the script but did not see the play) felt that the script was offensive in various parts and dehumanising. he, however, explained that there were instances, such as the one in the present case, where the script was so objectionable, that he did not feel the need to watch it, since the two elements which he objected to (the words concerning auschwitz and the passage about fred and rose mary west) would always remain objectionable, no matter the way in which they were presented, be it a tragedy or a comedy. in his view a normal couple, a couple who went through a normal life experience such as the death of a child, would not react like the characters in the play, who for example, re‑enacted a killing which had greatly marked england. he explained that the word “fuck” combined with the word “god” was unacceptable because it offended public morals, not only that of catholics, but that of half the world. thus, in his view those parts had to be deleted from the play. she considered that the play in its entirety, and not one scene here and there, was objectionable and offensive. 24), otto-preminger-institut v. austria (20 september 1994, series a no. a democratic society, while being tolerant, could not permit its values to be turned on their head in the name of freedom of expression. as to the constitutional and conventional complaint raised by the applicants, the constitutional court held that the existence of the board did not breach any of the applicants’ rights, and indeed the applicants had not impugned the law establishing the board. referring to the court’s case-law, in particular, otto‑preminger‑institut v. austria (§ 47) it recalled that those who chose to exercise the freedom to manifest their religion, “must tolerate and accept the denial by others of their religious beliefs and even the propagation by others of doctrines hostile to their faith. in any event it considered that adults, who could chose to watch the play in such a case, would also be deserving of protection, and thus limitations could also be necessary in such cases.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in grozny, chechen republic. according to the applicant, on 7 february 1999 the administrative authorities of the leninskiy district of grozny provided her with a housing allocation order no. in 2005 the applicant was registered as living in that flat. in 2007 the authorities decided to conduct an examination of all allocation orders granting occupation of municipal accommodation. the applicant’s housing allocation order dated 7 february 1999 appeared suspicious to the authorities and they commissioned an expert to verify its authenticity. the expert concluded that the allocation order was a forged document. she submitted that the administration had issued her with the housing allocation order because she had been on the housing list and she was subsequently registered as living in that flat. she had not been aware of the fact that the order had not been printed in the printing office. however, according to the civil servants of the administration, commissions on allocation of housing had been meeting once a month. that would mean that 842 orders were issued from the beginning of 1999 until 7 february 1999. on 24 february 2009 the leninskiy district court of grozny (“the district court”) declared the housing allocation order of 7 february 1999 null and void and issued an order to evict the applicant. it follows from the expert certificate no. 842 of 7 february 1999 ... did not correspond to the date on which it had been issued. 842 of 7 february 1999 had been made with the help of electrophotographic imaging on the copy machine. the court has assessed the whole of evidence submitted by the parties and finds that it is possible to grant the claimant’s claim...” 12. in her appeal against the judgment of 24 february 2009 the applicant submitted that in taking the decision to evict her the district court had not examined whether she had been in need of housing or not. 842 of 7 february 1999 issued by the administration of the leninskiy district of grozny to r.m. darsigova and giving her the right to move in flat no. 40 at 42, kadyrov street in grozny was sent for an expert examination...the expert examination established that the order did not correspond to the date on which it had been issued. the impress of a seal of the leninskiy district of grozny [on the order] had been made with the help of an improvised cliché which in its turn had been made with a help of a computer on the basis of an impress of the authentic seal...
...
having regards to the above, the court of first instance had concluded that the claims submitted by the administration of grozny had to be granted.
the applicants were or are still detained in korydallos prison hospital (“the prison hospital”). 4322/2015, having served one third of his sentence. he was released after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code. the fifth applicant, theodoros iliopoulos, was detained in the prison hospital from 8 january 2013 until 2 june 2015, the date on which he was released following use of the remedy provided for by section 12 of law no. the seventh applicant, davit khutsishvili, was detained in the prison hospital from 1 july 2014 until 27 october 2016. he was again detained in the prison hospital from 22 january 2016, and was still in detention there when the parties submitted their observations. the eighteenth applicant, chrisovalantis tsiriklos, was detained in the prison hospital from 4 july 2013 until 8 july 2015, when he was released after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code. the applicants submitted that the prison hospital had been overcrowded which, in addition to causing poor sanitary conditions, had resulted in the deterioration of their already fragile health. in particular, bunk beds were not used in the prison hospital and extra furniture, such as medical equipment, was required; therefore half the area of each ward had been occupied by furniture, which had resulted in them having a personal space in which they could move freely of below 2 sq. the above-mentioned conditions had led them to receiving inadequate health care. meals had been insufficient and of poor quality and the absence of recreational activities had affected their psychological health. central heating had been inadequate and collection of rubbish, especially in the kitchens, had not been sufficient, creating hygiene problems and resulting in bad smells and the presence of pests. the applicants also complained of the lack of medical staff and properly equipped laboratories for their medical examinations. 2776/1999), to which they have not received any reply to date. specifically as regards the applicants, some of them had been detained in wards 7 and 8 on the first floor of the hospital and some others in wards 1, 2 and 3 on the second floor. detainees who required more intense or specialised care were referred to public hospitals, a procedure which was used for the third, fourth, ninth, fifteenth and seventeenth applicants. wards were sufficiently ventilated and heated and had adequate natural light via six large windows. hot water was ensured by solar water heaters and by boilers which operated for four hours per day. according to the government, detainees were not obliged to spend all day in the wards; on the contrary, they could move along the corridors and spend time in the yard. lastly, according to the government, during 2015 and 2016 conditions of detention in the prison hospital were drastically improved.
the applicant, mr steingrim wolland, was born in 1961 and lives in oslo, norway. documents were put in sealed bags instead of being searched for evidence by the police. mirror copies (speilkopier) of the hard disk and laptop were taken; the hard disk and laptop were returned to the applicant two days later. this material was stored separately and placed under seal. on 5 january 2011 the prosecuting authority applied to the city court to examine the paper material that had been collected at the applicant’s premises and to have those documents that could lawfully be seized made available to it for search. by a letter of 16 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer disputed the lawfulness of what he categorised as the “seizure” (“beslag”), arguing that there had been no reasonable grounds for suspicion against the applicant and requested that the city court quash the “seizure” decision and order that the collected material be returned to him. on 6 may 2011 the prosecuting authority submitted the 2,309 files from the mirror copies to the city court for examination. in response to the letter from the applicant’s lawyer of 16 february 2011 (see paragraph 12 above), the city court wrote a letter of 11 may 2011, pointing out that the procedure applicable to material allegedly covered by legal professional privilege had been set out by the supreme court (høyesterett) in its decision of 3 march 2011, reported in norsk retstidende (rt.) 2011 page 296 (see paragraphs 38-39 below). the city court would obtain the views of the parties in a hearing before making a formal decision as to whether to authorise the search of the prosecution. in the court records it was registered that the court had informed the parties that it was desirable if a decision could be reached as soon as possible and preferably within a month. the applicant appealed against the decision to the high court, which on 8 january 2013 ordered that the mirror copies were to be returned to the applicant unless the prosecuting authority promptly (relativt omgående) requested that the city court examine them. it referred, inter alia, to the general obligation to ensure progress in investigations, as reflected in article 226 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 37 below). the mirror copies should, like the paper documents, have been placed under seal and transferred to the city court without the prosecution authority having accessed material on them through keyword-searches. it quashed the high court’s decision in order for that court to further assess the prosecuting authority’s submissions that the copies should instead be kept with the city court, as the high court had not sufficiently considered that possibility. the material could be deleted by the court or the data carrier could be handed over to the applicant. the case as concerned the mirror copies was ultimately dismissed on 22 august 2014. this judgment became final when the supreme court’s appeal committee refused leave to appeal on 18 october 2013. the charges concerning forgery of documents (ibid.) were dropped on 16 february 2011 and the remainder on 21 august 2013.
the applicants were born in 1966, 1971, 1993 and 1996 respectively. the second applicant is the former spouse of the first applicant and the third and the fourth applicants are their children. the first, the third and the fourth applicants live in lviv. subsequently all four applicants obtained residence registration with the local authority as tenants of that flat. since 2001 (and as at the time of the observations exchanges between the parties), the household was paying the relevant maintenance charges and other tenancy-related fees, which were calculated on the premise that the flat was occupied by four persons. on 28 november 2003 the second applicant was dismissed from military service on grounds of redundancy. in 2005 the first and the second applicant divorced and the first applicant and her children were placed on the waiting list for social housing managed by the municipal authority. in august 2011 the lviv garrison military prosecutor instituted eviction proceedings against the applicants. meanwhile, none of the applicants had any connection to the military or the military academy, which owned the building. on 15 november 2012 the frankivskyy district court in lviv dismissed the prosecutor’s claim. it found that the applicants had lawfully obtained the tenancy in connection with the second applicant’s previous military service. regard being had to the applicable legal provisions concerning the social protection of former military officers and their families, they could not be evicted from the accommodation hall without first being provided with other housing. in addition to that, the fourth applicant had still been a minor at the material time, and further legislation applicable to the protection of minors warranted the protection of her housing rights. the applicants lodged a cassation appeal against this judgment. they also submitted that their income level was not sufficient for them to acquire housing at their own expense and that they did not have any family members in lviv who could offer shelter to them. their residence was duly registered and they had been dutifully paying all the applicable fees connected with their occupancy of the flat. lastly, the applicants referred to the judgment of the european court of human rights in the case of kryvitska and kryvitskyy v. ukraine (no. on 20 november 2013 the higher specialised court of ukraine dismissed the applicants’ cassation appeal. subsequently, enforcement proceedings were instituted with a view to evicting the applicants. the parties have not informed the court whether the eviction order has been enforced.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in tirana. on an unspecified date criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant and two other co-accused on account of premeditated murder. the applicant was subsequently arrested by the authorities. it appears that the applicant wrote this letter while he was in detention. on 1 november 1999 the district court found the applicant not guilty and ordered his release. he had attended the trial and had been defended by a., his chosen lawyer. the two other co-accused were convicted and sentenced. on an unspecified date the two other co-accused and the prosecutor appealed against the district court’s decision of 1 november 1999. on an unspecified date the applicant left albania. the applicant was represented by a. in his absence. on 21 april 2000 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal lodged by a. against the durrës court of appeal decision of 28  february 2000. on 26 december 2000, during the retrial proceedings, the district  court convicted the applicant in absentia of premeditated murder and sentenced him to twenty-three years’ imprisonment. the applicant had been represented in those proceedings by a new, court-appointed lawyer. there is no copy of the said supreme court decision in the case file. on 8 july 2005 the applicant was informed of his conviction in  absentia by his family members. the applicant was represented by k. as his counsel. on 4 november 2005, 29 september 2006 and 9 july 2010 respectively, the district court and the court of appeal dismissed, and the supreme court rejected, his application. the domestic courts held that the applicant should have known of the proceedings as he had been represented by a lawyer of his own choosing, a., who had been informed of the prosecutor’s appeal, and as his mother had appointed a lawyer to make an application for review. they also held that the case had already been examined at all instances and that their decisions were still in effect. who had been a member of the district court’s bench that had delivered the judgment of 26 december 2000, also sat in the district court’s bench of 4 november 2005 that dismissed the applicant’s application.
the united civil aviation trade union (“the first applicant”) is a trade union registered in budapest. mr a. csorba (“the second applicant”) is a hungarian national who was born in 1970 and lives in vecsés. he is the president of the united civil aviation trade union. on 12 october 2012 the second applicant applied to the budapest police department for authorisation to hold a demonstration on the road leading to budapest ferenc liszt international airport. he stated that the demonstration would be held on the hard shoulder of the road, which was not ordinarily used for traffic. the declared objectives of the demonstration were, inter alia, to draw the public’s attention to the precarious financial situation in which the employees of the airport would find themselves if salary cuts envisaged by the company managing the airport were carried out. the event was scheduled to be held between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. on 17 october 2012. the second applicant also specified that it was expected that about fifty to 100 persons would participate in the event and that it was intended that speeches would be given and that an open letter would be read out. on 14 october 2012 the budapest police department registered the application and informed the second applicant that, in order to clarify details regarding the programme of the demonstration and the number of police officers that would be required to secure the event, it was necessary to schedule a meeting with the organisers. the second applicant and the vice-president of the united civil aviation trade union met with the representatives of the monor police department on the same day. the representative of the police department suggested that the demonstration be held at another location, since the planned venue would endanger traffic. the second applicant assured the police that the demonstrators would respect traffic rules, would only occupy the part of the road not used for traffic and would distribute flyers to car passengers, and that the organisers would call off or halt the demonstration if it was not in compliance with the relevant legal provisions. on 14 october 2012 the monor police department forbade the demonstration. it was of the view that the planned demonstration would endanger traffic and would render the airport inaccessible, infringing passengers’ right to leave the country. in any event, the demonstration would breach the traffic code, since those parts of the road not used for traffic were not supposed to be accessed by pedestrians or be used for parking. on 17 october 2012 the applicants requested judicial review of the decision, relying on their right to freedom of expression and to freedom of assembly. they argued that a demonstration could only be forbidden on the grounds of a need to ensure traffic safety if there were no alternative means of access to the airport. in their view the demonstration would not constitute any greater hindrance to traffic than would roadworks. by a decision of 19 october 2012 the budapest surroundings high court (budapest környéki törvényszék) dismissed their complaint, endorsing in essence the police department’s reasoning (see paragraph 9 above).
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in nova gorica. the applicant was working as a cleaning lady when she allegedly developed serious medical complications in her left wrist, which could only partly have been addressed by surgery. because of these medical issues she was found, in 2006, to be incapable of further work and officially recognised as having a partial disability. on 30 december 2011 the applicant applied to the pensions and disability insurance institute of the republic of slovenia (“the institute”) for a disability allowance in respect of a physical impairment (nadomestilo za invalidnost – hereinafter “disability allowance”). the commission – composed of an occupational medicine specialist, an orthopaedic specialist and a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician – based its opinion on an examination of the medical records submitted by the applicant and a clinical examination of the applicant. a copy of the first-instance disability commission’s opinion was attached to the decision. she argued that because of the incapacity of her arms the functioning of her body was inhibited and greater efforts were required to satisfy her daily needs. she also argued that the opposing party should have more seriously examined all her medical problems. she accordingly proposed that a medical expert be appointed. on 6 september 2013 the ljubljana labour and social court, sitting in a single-judge formation, dismissed the applicant’s application for a disability allowance. after taking into account the documents in the file and the hearing of the applicant, the court found that the institute had correctly established the facts. on 17 october 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal against the first-instance court’s finding. within the context of the judicial review of the administrative decisions [the court] is of course not obliged to accept evidence [submitted by] a forensic medical expert if the expert opinions of the disability commissions at first and second instance allow for the conclusion that the negative administrative decisions are correct and lawful because they are based on an assessment by both commissions which is convincing in view of the available medical documentation and the report of [the relevant] medical examination. in the applicant’s case, although she had a recognised disability, this fact alone – without any functional problems in respect of inflexibility of joints – could not suffice to categorise her condition as one of physical impairment. the applicant lodged an application for leave to appeal on points of law. on 10 june 2014 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s application, holding that there were no grounds for allowing an appeal on points of law. on 21 july 2014 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. she further argued that she could not have explained all her medical issues at the hearing and that the court had not been in a position to assess the flexibility of her arms. she invoked article 22 (equal protection of rights) and article 23 (the right to judicial protection) of the constitution. she also reiterated her complaint about the reliance on the list.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. three other co‑defendants, whose requests for the use of the summary procedure had been granted, were also found guilty. the applicant was represented by a court-appointed lawyer. on 7 october 2002, following an appeal by the three other defendants, the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the decision in the applicant’s absence. on 10 october 2007, upon the applicant’s extradition to albania, the district court accepted his application for leave to appeal out of time. on an unspecified date in october 2007 the applicant lodged his appeal. in the first place, he requested that his case be re-examined separately from that of his co-defendants on the grounds that he had not sought the use of the summary procedure. 2 of 29 january 2003 (see paragraph 16 below). secondly, he requested that a fresh examination of the evidence be conducted in his presence and that a number of witnesses be questioned. on 17 december 2007 the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction in absentia. in upholding the conviction, the court relied on forensic evidence produced in 1997 and 1999 and on witness statements made in 2001 and 2002. the court further stated that the applicant had been duly informed as the authorities had issued a public notice. separating the cases could not be considered as the district court had not decided on that issue. he complained of a breach of his right to have witnesses questioned and evidence re-examined. he stressed the fact that in his appeal to the court of appeal he had asked for evidence to be obtained, including an identification parade, the questioning of a fourth person who had been present at the events, a face-to face confrontation between himself and the other co-defendants and so on. it had not been possible for him to obtain that evidence himself, only the courts or the prosecutor could have done that. the applicant also maintained the other complaints he had raised in his court of appeal case. on 5 march 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal, finding that it lacked any grounds of appeal as prescribed by law. on 21 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court. on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision that his appeal was inadmissible.
the applicant was born in qesarat, tepelenë, in 1977. he is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 january and 10 november 2005, following proceedings in absentia, the gjirokastër district court and the court of appeal, respectively, convicted the applicant of attempted theft resulting in death in collusion with others and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment. that decision became final on 9 february 2007 after the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant’s lawyer. it appears that the applicant was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family throughout the court proceedings. it appears that on 30 march 2007 the applicant was extradited from greece to albania. on 3 may 2007 the gjirokastër district court allowed a request by the applicant to appeal out of time and he lodged an appeal against his conviction in absentia. on 12 november 2007 the gjirokaster court of appeal while requalifying the charges against the applicant on the basis of the evidence obtained during the proceedings in absentia, upheld the applicant’s conviction, ruling that it had become res judicata. by a final decision of 7 october 2009 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction as decided in the gjirokastër district court’s decision of 2005, ruling that it had become res judicata and that the facts and law in the case had been examined previously. it further noted that leave to appeal out of time should not have been granted as the case had become res  judicata. on 21 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court against the supreme court’s decision, complaining, inter alia, about the fact that the domestic courts had not given him the possibility of a fresh factual and legal determination of the criminal charge. on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision to dismiss his appeal.
the first applicant was born in 1947 and lives in dolyna, a city in the ivano-frankivsk region. he obtained a property certificate on 22 july 2008. the land is rented by a limited liability company. the courts could shorten this period if there was a valid reason for such a decision. 720/95 of 8 august 1995 provided for a programme of gradual reform of the caes through the issuance to their current and former members of shares of land, that is to say land entitlements in the form of shares of the whole land mass of the cae expressed as a number of hectares but without a specific physical location or defined boundaries. some 107,000 shares were sold or otherwise disposed of by their new owners, which, according to parliament, showed that they had not been adequately informed about the land reform and their rights and duties.[2]
parliament observed that, due to a lack of funding, the cabinet of ministers was only planning to complete the share conversion and titling work by 2006, which made it impossible to introduce the land sales market from 1 january 2005, as the land code provided at the time (see paragraph 19 below). on 25 october 2001 a new land code was enacted. date of the law 
end date of the ban
changes in the scope of the moratorium and other related changes
summary of the reasons given in the explanatory note to the draft law
1
06/10/2004
01/01/2007
swap transactions involving land, including swaps of land for equity in companies, prohibited
legislation governing the land market had not yet been developed by the cabinet of ministers; technical work was needed to prepare the administrations for processing land transactions. an “extension” of the moratorium was needed to develop an effective mechanism for sales and overseeing sales of land and to prevent possible abuses
11
10/11/2015
the same as in row 10, but not before 01/01/2017
the law extending the moratorium instructed the cabinet of ministers to produce the draft cala and submit it to parliament by 01/03/2016
lifting the moratorium in times of war and economic crisis would be a threat to national and food security and the threat of a loss of land, as an important national resource. a step-by-step roadmap for introducing agricultural land into circulation, which would be clear to the public, needed to be developed. article 14 § 2 guarantees the right to land ownership and provides that land ownership may be acquired and exercised by citizens, legal entities and the state in accordance with the law. the right to private property shall be inviolable...” 26. article 130 provides that land zoned for commercial agricultural production can only be acquired by a ukrainian national with sufficient educational qualifications or experience to engage in agricultural production or by a ukrainian legal entity which has agriculture listed in its articles of association among the types of business it can engage in. on 31 may 2002, in his annual address to parliament on the state of the nation, the president of ukraine stressed the need to create the structure for an efficient and transparent land market by 2005, when the moratorium would expire. steps in order to introduce a regulated land market had to be taken urgently.[19] 40. until now, ukrainians have been deprived of that right. for now, unfortunately, it has been formed by the populists. the 2017 plan stated that the draft cala would be submitted to parliament in the second quarter of 2017. it appears from the material available to the court on the legislation of member states of the council of europe that none of the thirty‑two member states surveyed has a general ban on the sale or any other form of alienation of agricultural land. in another example, in norway a typical condition on which authorisation is granted may be that the buyer must move onto the land and live on it for five years.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in prague. on 17 october 2003 he married b., a ukrainian national, in prague. b. continued to live with the child at a different address in prague. by the decision of the prague 10 district court adopted on 6 november 2008, which was upheld on appeal on 19 may 2009, the first applicant and b. were granted alternating custody of the second applicant (with a change of parent each week). without the consent of the first applicant, she moved to ukraine with the second applicant and settled in demeshkivtsi, ivano-frankivsk region. on 14 september 2010, the ivano-frankivsk regional court of appeal upheld the judgment on appeal, and it became enforceable on that date. in that regard the court referred to the psychological and pedagogical report which concluded that the child was attached to his mother and that discussion about his father caused him feelings of fear. it also examined reports by the local childcare authorities suggesting that the child should live with his mother. on 6 march 2014 the ivano-frankivsk regional court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court, finding that the child had settled in a new environment since his arrival in 2009 and that b. was entitled to bring that action in order to ensure the best interests of the child. the first applicant did not appeal on points of law against that decision. for that reason, on 6 october 2010 she was ordered to pay a fine of 170 ukrainian hryvnias (uah)[1]. on 3 november 2010 the halych district court of ivano-frankivsk region dismissed the bailiffs’ request to put the child on the search list. the court found that there was no evidence that the bailiffs had made attempts to identify the whereabouts of b. and the child. as b. continued to avoid the enforcement of the judgment, in november 2010 the bailiffs requested that criminal proceedings be initiated against her on charges of deliberate non-compliance with a court decision under article 382 § 1 of the criminal code of ukraine, which provided for a maximum penalty of three years’ imprisonment. 7 in kalush after receiving information that the second applicant was a pupil there. on 23 august 2011 the halych district court granted the requests. on 21 november 2011 b. informed the bailiffs that she and the child were living at their home in demeshkivtsi. however, when the bailiffs attempted to enter the house on 28 november 2011, b. refused to open the door. as b. and the child were not present at their address when the bailiffs made further visits, the bailiffs applied to the court to have them put on the search list and to have the child placed in temporary care. on 22 august 2014 the ivano-frankivsk town court reversed the bailiff’s decision as unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained at the corradino correctional facility, paola. on 11 december 2010 the applicant was arrested by the police on suspicion of having murdered his former partner. on 13 december 2010 he was charged before the court of magistrates, as a court of criminal inquiry, with inter alia, wilful homicide. apart from the hearings related to the bail applications and other specific requests, fourteen hearings were held where scores of witnesses gave evidence and another six hearings were held where nothing happened and the case was adjourned. by a judgment of 23 november 2012 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal and confirmed the appealed judgment. he requested the court to set a higher deposit reflecting the nature of the crimes with which the applicant was accused and to amend the conditions by disallowing the applicant to be in locality r. where the victim and her family resided. on 9 october 2012 the applicant filed another application requesting the court to reduce the amount of the deposit. he complained that although he had been in detention for twenty-two months, and was entitled to bail, he had nevertheless remained in detention since he (and his family) could not afford to pay such an excessive amount by way of deposit. on 10 october 2012 the attorney general objected to the applicant’s new request, noting that the applicant was not reliable, and that his inability to pay the deposit showed that he would be unable to pay the personal guarantee if he were to breach his conditions. by a decree of 18 october 2012, having seen the request and the reply submitted by the attorney general, the court rejected the applicant’s request. on 29 january 2013 the applicant filed yet another application requesting that the amount of deposit be reduced. by a decree of 5 february 2013 the court, having considered the parties submissions, as well as its decree of 7 december 2012, was of the view that it should not alter the considerations made in the latter decision. it, thus, rejected the applicant’s request. the attorney general requested that the applicant submit relevant evidence of the inheritance and the value of the property and that the court hear relevant witnesses in this connection, before making his final submissions. on 30 july 2013 the applicant submitted all the relevant documents concerning the property at issue which was valued at eur 95,000. on 2 august 2013 the court accepted that the applicant’s mother stand as surety by means of a hypothec on the above-mentioned property which she owned together with other relatives. it was his duty to provide the courts with information on his income, savings and list his assets. in the court’s view, in the present case, bearing in mind the seriousness of the crime and the potential punishment, the applicant had not brought enough evidence before the courts of criminal justice to substantiate his claim that those courts had imposed excessive conditions (including that referring to the amount of deposit). indeed even though the collection of evidence had come to an end, one had to guarantee that the evidence remained intact and thus relevant guarantees were necessary. further bail requests were lodged and rejected until 26 january 2015 when a bill of indictment was issued against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in koper. after going missing on 4 november 2007, x was found dead near the local komen-branik road, close to the town of komen, on the morning of 5 november 2007. he had been repeatedly stabbed and cut with a knife and then run over by a car. the police were called to the scene, as were the district state prosecutor and the duty investigating judge. the m company provided a disk containing the requested data on the same day. in the course of the preliminary inquiry, the investigating judge ordered a post-mortem examination of x, a dna analysis and a comparison of biological traces found on the applicant’s clothes and other objects seized during the home search with those found on x’s body. the applicant, represented by counsel, was heard on 8 november 2017 and was subsequently detained on remand. she, inter alia: ordered that a reconstruction be carried out at the crime scene; appointed a psychiatrist and a psychologist to examine the applicant and prepare opinions; ordered forensic experts in vehicle science and car crash investigations to prepare reports on specific aspects of the case; and again ordered that the m company and the s company provide traffic data relating to x’s and the applicant’s telephones. on 29 november 2007 the applicant was, at his request, heard by the investigating judge, to whom he admitted to running over x, but submitted that this had merely been an accident. a number of hearings were held at which witnesses, experts and evidentiary material were examined and various expert reports ordered and subsequently read out. on 10 june 2008 the koper district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to thirteen years in prison. the case was remitted to the koper district court for fresh examination. on 4 september 2009 the koper district court convicted the applicant for the aggravated murder of x and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. - in view of the foregoing conclusion that the examination of the applicant’s telephone could have not been admitted to the file, the court refused as unnecessary a request by the applicant for the examination of the officers who had seized the applicant’s telephone (see paragraph 20 above). in addition, the court noted that the results of this examination had not been included in the file and had not been relied on by the court. thus, in his view, the impugned judgment should not have concluded that the examination of his telephone had had insignificant evidentiary value. on 22 december 2011 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. in view of this conclusion, the supreme court considered that, regardless of the fact that the police had examined the applicant’s telephone without a court order, the identification of the applicant’s mobile telephone number as the one from which the text message in question had been sent did not constitute inadmissible evidence that should have been excluded from the case file. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, reiterating the allegations made in his previous appeals. with regard to the supreme court’s finding that the evidence in question would have been inevitably discovered, the applicant argued that the domestic law contained a strict rule requiring the exclusion of all evidence obtained by means violating human rights (“the domestic exclusionary rule”).
he is currently serving a prison sentence. in 1998 the applicant was implicated in the commission of the criminal offence of setting up and being a member of an armed gang and of other criminal offences. on 4 february 1999 the prosecutor charged him with the offences of membership of an armed gang, attempted intentional murder and other crimes. it appears that throughout the investigation proceedings the applicant was represented by an officially appointed lawyer. on 12 february 1999 the elbasan district court ordered the applicant’s arrest. however, the order could not be enforced as the applicant could not be traced. on 19 february 1999 the elbasan district court declared the applicant a fugitive from justice after unsuccessful attempts to locate him. the decision stated that it was impossible to find him as it appeared that he had escaped to an unknown destination (këto kërkime nuk kanë bërë të mundur kapjen e të pandehurit pasi ai rezulton të ketë ikur në drejtim të paditur). on an unspecified date the prosecutor decided to commit the applicant for trial. on 28 may 1999 the supreme court transferred the case for examination to the durrës district court. the trial proceedings against the applicant were conducted in absentia and he was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family in accordance with article 48 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”). he was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment. the decision was based on evidence from documents and witness testimony. however, the court of appeal examined the applicant’s case as part of its overall examination, having regard to the appeals of the other defendants. it convicted the applicant of the same offences as before and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. on 7 december 2000 the supreme court dismissed appeals by the applicant and other co-accused against the court of appeal’s decision of 19 april 2000. on 16 september 2005 the applicant was arrested by the czech authorities on the basis of an arrest warrant issued by albania. on 25 january 2006 the applicant was extradited to albania. on 1 march 2006 the applicant was officially informed of his conviction in absentia. on 13 september 2007 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal against the conviction in absentia.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in osijek. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 6 november 2000, in inheritance proceedings following the applicant’s grandmother’s death, the applicant’s relative, m.j., and the applicant’s father were declared the beneficiaries in respect of a house, which was not registered in the land register, by a decision of the zabok municipal court (općinski sud u zaboku). he set the value of the dispute (vrijednost predmeta spora) at 110,000 croatian kunas (hrk). in the proceedings before the first-instance court, on 5 november 2007 the applicant contested the value of the dispute and suggested that it be set at hrk 300,000. at the hearing held on 23 january 2008 the applicant, inter alia, withdrew her objection to the value of the dispute as indicated by the claimant, and stated that she agreed with it. in its judgment of 25 april 2008 the zabok municipal court accepted m.j. on 24 november 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), challenging the lower courts’ judgments. on 27 may 2010 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible ratione valoris. ’s civil action as being composed of two separate claims arising from different factual and legal bases - the first one for recognition of ownership, and the second for obtaining an order securing the registration of his ownership in the land register (hereinafter “the issuance of a clausula intabulandi”). the relevant part of this decision reads as follows:
“the claimant in his civil action indicated the value of the dispute as hrk 110,000. pursuant to section 37(2) of the cpa [(civil procedure act)], if the claims in the civil action arise from a variety of grounds, or different claimants put forward individual claims or individual claims are raised against several defendants, the value of the dispute must be established in accordance with the value of each individual claim. therefore, the value of the dispute has to be established in relation to the value of the dispute of each claim. consequently, the value of the dispute of each claim ... has to be established by dividing the indicated unique value of the dispute by [these] two [claims]. given that the claimant indicated the [unique] value of the dispute as hrk 110,000, and that this amount should be divided by [the number of the claims], the value of the dispute of each claim does not exceed the amount of 100,000. it follows that an appeal on points of law by the defendant is inadmissible.” ’s action had two aspects which could not be separated, and that the supreme court’s decision finding that the case concerned two separate claims had therefore been arbitrary and had violated her right to a fair hearing, in particular her right of access to the supreme court, as guaranteed under article 29 of the constitution. on 17 february 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. its decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 3 march 2011.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is detained in rezina. on 16 march 2011 the prison administration found a mobile phone in his cell. since this is an object possession of which is prohibited by prison rules, on 23 march 2011 the prison administration sanctioned him with a reprimand. on 26 july 2011 the prison board decided that the applicant was always to be handcuffed when moving outside his cell. no further reasons were given and the length of the period for which the measure was to apply was not specified. it appears from the applicant’s submissions that the measure was revoked at an extraordinary meeting of the prison board five months after it was imposed. on 3 august 2011 he was informed that the sanction had been applied on the basis of order no. 4 of the prisons department (see paragraph 17 below). 583 of 26 may 2006 (“the regulation” – see paragraphs 14 and 16 below). also on 26 september 2011 the applicant challenged the prison board’s decision before the investigating judge, arguing that he had been sanctioned twice for the same offence, contrary to the express legal requirements, and that he had not been informed of the reasons for the decision to handcuff him. he noted that handcuffing was a sanction and relied on the reply of the prisons department (see the preceding paragraph) in arguing that that sanction could only be applied on the basis of the regulation and not some secret order. the prosecutor, who also participated in the hearing, added that the sanction had been necessary in order to prevent the applicant posing any danger to other detainees. on 25 november 2011 the rezina district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as unfounded. the applicant attempted to have the decision quashed by using an extraordinary remedy, but on 3 october 2012 the supreme court of justice refused his request. under article 95 of the regulation, as modified on 26 september 2008, persons serving life imprisonment shall be handcuffed when moving outside their cells if it is established during the last evaluation that the absence of such a measure will pose an immediate danger to other detainees, prison staff or other persons. evaluations of this kind shall be carried out at least once every six months. 4 of the prisons department adopted on 13 january 2009 provides, in section 39/1, that the prison board may decide on whether there is any need to handcuff a person sentenced to imprisonment for life or whether to remove handcuffs from such a person, depending on the degree of danger posed by him or her. 68.3 instruments of restraint shall not be applied for any longer time than is strictly necessary. in the cpt’s view, the objectives and principles for the treatment of life-sentenced prisoners enunciated by the committee of ministers in recommendation rec (2003) 23 on the management by prison administrations of life sentence and other long-term prisoners remains the most pertinent and comprehensive reference document for this group of prisoners. in particular, steps should be taken by the member states concerned to abolish the legal obligation of keeping life-sentenced prisoners separate from other (long-term) sentenced prisoners and to put an end to the systematic use of security measures such as handcuffs inside the prison.”
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in kostino, kirov region. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, 5 january 2016) and yaroslav belousov v. russia (nos. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. it took them about two hours to clear the protestors from the square. on the same day the moscow city department of the investigative committee of the russian federation opened criminal proceedings to investigate suspected acts of mass disorder and violence against the police (articles 212 § 2 and 318 § 1 of the criminal code). on 28 may 2012 an investigation was also launched into the criminal offence of organising acts of mass disorder (article 212 § 1 of the criminal code). the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. he was arrested on the date indicated below and charged with participation in mass disorder. the applicant’s complaints concerning the grounds and the length of his detention on remand, the poor conditions of detention and the lack of medical assistance in the remand prison were examined in the case kovyazin and others v. russia (nos. 13008/13 and 2 others, 17 september 2015). on 4 may 2012 he received an assignment from the newspaper chief editor to attend the “march of millions” on 6 may 2012 at bolotnaya square and to take a video footage of the event. according to the applicant, on 6 may 2012 he arrived at bolotnaya square, filmed the event and did not take part in any disorder or clashes with the police. after the events in question the applicant continued to live at his usual address and to work for the newspaper. on 5 september 2012 the applicant was arrested and charged under article 212 § 2 of the criminal code (participation in mass disorder accompanied by violence). it was found to be unjustified by the court in the case of kovyazin and others (cited above, §§ 79-93). on 6 june 2013 court proceedings began in hearing room no. it was equipped with metal cages, in which nine defendants, including the applicant, sat during the hearings. on 18 december 2013 the state duma passed the amnesty act, which exempted persons suspected and accused of criminal offences under article 212 §§ 2 and 3 of the criminal code from criminal liability. on the same day the zamoskvoretskiy district court granted the request and released him from detention.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in diyarbakır. the police officers gave chase in police cars and “küçük şiyar”, who was sitting on the back of the motorbike, drew his pistol and pointed it at a police car. it appears from another report prepared by different police officers that at 3 p.m. on the same day a police chief and three police officers arrived at the scene of the incident after “küçük şiyar” had been shot but before he was taken to hospital. according to the report, the pistol, the hand grenade and the motorbike were then taken away by the four officers in order not to hinder the flow of traffic and to prevent panic among the public, as the incident had occurred on a busy street. who was suspected of having provided logistical support to the two men, was also arrested. it was alleged in the petition that the shooting incident had taken place outside its offices and been witnessed by a number of people. the other person on the motorbike, m.n.b., on 6 july 2004 the prosecutor questioned t.s., also a police officer, who was questioned the following day, told the prosecutor that şiyar perinçek’s clothes had been removed before şiyar perinçek had been taken into the operating theatre and that they had then been taken away by a plainclothes police officer, d.a.y., also gave the prosecutor a copy of the hospital ledgers, according to which the clothes had been handed over to a police officer. had left for his annual leave for a month and could not therefore be questioned. upon realising that the person had been injured, he and his colleagues had called an ambulance and transferred that person to hospital. on 13 july 2004 the applicant joined the criminal investigation as an intervener. during the hearing held on 21 december 2004 the applicant, with the assistance of the lawyers representing him, submitted his written observations to the trial court. in this connection the applicant argued that it was highly suspicious that the bullet and the spent bullet case discharged from the defendant police chief’s pistol had not been recovered; in fact, there was no mention in any of the crime scene reports that the forensic authorities had even searched for that bullet or the spent bullet case. at the time he had thought that they were about to be robbed and had panicked. had changed his story to protect his fellow colleagues. he submitted that the clothes his son had been wearing had been taken away by police officers with a view to hiding the fact that they had shot his son at close range. after the incident the police officers had found explosives in a bag on the motorbike. the clothes worn by the applicant’s son at the time of the shooting had got lost during “the commotion at the hospital” and it had not therefore been possible to establish the distance from which he had been shot.
the applicants were born in 1963 and 1965 respectively and live in i̇zmir. their respective children, sibel sartık and nergiz özer, aged 24 and 15 respectively, were killed by soldiers on 19 january 2005 in south-east turkey. the bodies of those three individuals were subsequently handed over to their families, who buried them in diyarbakır. on the same date the governor of siirt issued a decision stating that crowds had gathered at the cemetery in siirt and had attacked the municipal workers who were preparing the graves. subsequently, the incidents at the cemetery had escalated and turned into “unlawful demonstrations”. the applicants told the soldiers that they had no connection with the two villages in question which, in any event, had been evacuated by soldiers in the 1990s. they stated that they wanted to bury their children side by side in their family cemetery in siirt. despite their objections, the bodies of the two children were confiscated and taken away by the soldiers. the same day the second applicant made an official request to the office of the governor and asked for permission to bury the children in the city of batman instead. this request was refused but the governor amended his decision so that the applicants’ children could be buried in the same cemetery in the town of eruh, instead of being buried in two separate villages as he had previously ordered. the applicants agreed, in particular, that it was important and necessary to maintain public order. all of that unrest had been caused by the governor’s unlawful decision. on 30 march 2006 the diyarbakır administrative court rejected the case. the decision to bury the bodies in the town of eruh had therefore been taken with a view to maintaining public order. the administrative court considered that, although the applicants had the right to bury their children in a cemetery of their choice, the refusal to permit them to do so had been in compliance with the restrictions set out in the second paragraphs of articles 8 and 9 of the convention and in section 13 of the turkish constitution. they repeated their argument that the three others killed by the soldiers at the same time as their children had been buried by their families in diyarbakır without incident. the applicants also reiterated their request for an interim measure. the request for an interim measure was rejected by the supreme administrative court on 13 december 2006. in reaching its conclusion the supreme administrative court stated that the incidents at the siirt cemetery had begun when the people who had gathered there had insisted that the applicants’ two children be buried next to the graves of members of the pkk. the decision of the supreme administrative court was communicated to the applicants on 19 march 2009.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in trinca. he has a hostile relationship with them and all of his former in-laws. on 30 may 2005 he wrote to the prosecutor general’s office, listing the many complaints that he had previously lodged with various authorities (including the police) of having been ill-treated by his ex-wife and children, the destruction of his property by them, and the failure of the local police to react in any manner. he explained that he had been struck by his son. with the results of that examination he went to a medical expert on 29 december 2006. the injury was considered to be of medium severity and requiring more than twenty-one days of treatment. on the same day a new medical report was drawn up which confirmed the previous report’s findings. he had not seen any injury or sign of pain on his hand. another witness stated that he had seen the applicant cutting wood on 12 january 2007 at the local priest’s house, while three other persons were taking a rest. on 20 september 2007 the applicant was questioned by the investigator, who proposed that he submit the x-ray images taken on 28 december 2006 for examination by the medical commission. on 4 december 2007 the centre returned all relevant documents to the prosecutor, informing him that, in the absence of the applicant’s x-ray results, it had been impossible to carry out the examination. the prosecutor furthermore noted that the applicant had only gone to the medical expert on 29 december 2006 and not immediately after the incident. lastly, the applicant had refused to submit his x-ray results, thus preventing the medical commission from drawing up its report. on 10 april 2008 a higher-ranking prosecutor annulled the decision of 19 march 2008 as premature and taken without the origin of the applicant’s injury having been established. he also found that the investigative actions had been “extremely superficial” and had had a “tendentious, unilateral character”. the commission also concluded that this type of injury could have been caused in the manner described by the applicant, but could also have been self-inflicted. on 30 june 2010 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation, essentially for the same reasons as those for which he had discontinued it previously, adding that the medical reports did not exclude the possibility that the injury had been self-inflicted. that decision was confirmed by a higher-ranking prosecutor on 17 december 2010. on 25 july 2011 the investigating judge of the bălți district court upheld the decisions of 30 june and 17 december 2010. each time he explained that he had been beaten by his ex-wife and children.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in zagreb. in the former yugoslav socialist regime all employees contributed to housing funds. the funds thus obtained were used, inter alia, to build blocks of flats. the flats were distributed to employees, who acquired protected tenancies in respect of them and other already existing socially owned flats. each publicly owned company drew up a list of persons to be granted specially protected tenancies. however, since that decision was not yet final, company s. entered into an agreement with the applicant on 7 december 1988 giving her the right to move into the flat with her family and to care for that flat. the applicant moved into the flat and has been living there ever since. the decision to grant the applicant a specially protected tenancy was challenged by three other employees and quashed by the zagreb basic court of associated labour (osnovni sud udruženog rada u zagrebu). on 27 march 1990 the housing committee of company s. drew up a priority list for the distribution of flats. on 23 april 1990 the company’s workers’ council approved the priority list. on 9 and 15 may 1990, respectively, two other employees of company s. brought an action before the competent court, seeking to have the priority list declared null and void. a civil action could be brought to challenge the decision on allocation of a flat but not to challenge a priority list. on 29 november 1995 the applicant asked the zagreb municipality as the owner of the flat to conclude a contract for the sale of the flat with herself as the buyer. the zagreb municipality did not take any decision within the prescribed time-limit of sixty days. the court held that the applicant did not have a final decision on allocation of the flat to her. in a subsequent constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant, she complained that her right to equality before the law, her right to an appeal as well as her right to a fair trial had been violated. however, once those proceedings had ended, all of the conditions for recognition of her specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue had been met. the one-year validity of the priority list was to be counted from the date of its being confirmed, which in the applicant’s case had occurred when the national courts had dismissed all the objections concerning that list. on 11 may 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint on the grounds that the findings of the lower courts that she had not acquired a specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue had been correct. it further held that the decisions the applicant had relied on concerned persons who had had specially protected tenancies which they had subsequently lost.
the applicants were born in 1975 and 1976 and live in cahul and cetireni respectively. 8 from the electricity, water and heating supplies. on 10 july 2003 the last of the people who were ill with tuberculosis were transferred to a newly-built hospital wing in pruncul prison hospital, situated in moldova. 8, some 236 healthy detainees, including the applicants, remained in the prison after that date. however, also on 10 july 2003, the local authorities disconnected prison no. he was released on parole on 14 april 2005. mr mihăilă (the second applicant) was transferred to another prison on 1 march 2004 and was released on parole on 28 march 2005. 8 and the unsuccessful negotiations with the local authorities. on 29 august 2003 the chdom asked the bender district court (which is part of the moldovan court system) to order the prosecutor’s office to remedy the human rights violations taking place in prison no. according to the moldovan government, on 18 november 2003 the bender prosecutor’s office contacted the “mrt” authorities with a view to prosecuting those responsible for disconnecting prison no. on 1 march 2004 the chdom asked the bender prosecutor’s office what action had been taken pursuant to the above-mentioned court decisions. the detainees had authorised the organisation to act on their behalf. on 19 may 2004 the supreme court of justice rejected the request and left the case with the bender district court. the claimants (the detainees) and their representatives were not consulted. on 1 february 2005 the bender court of appeal set aside that decision. the same thing occurred on 29 october 2008. the court also informed the chdom that, in a letter dated 2 july 2007, the ministry of justice had informed the court that a representative of the russian federation could only be summoned via the ministry of justice. it awarded each of them damages in the amount of eur 200, to be paid by the moldovan ministry of finance, and eur 500, to be paid by the russian ministry of finance. the court found that, despite the applicants’ representatives’ actions contributing to the overall length of the proceedings (twenty-six out of the sixty-seven months), a breach of the right to a trial within a reasonable time had taken place, requiring additional compensation which it set at mdl 6,000 (approximately eur 358 at the time). relevant reports of inter-governmental and non‑governmental organisations 37.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. on 5 april 2004 the vyborgskiy district court of st petersburg (“the vyborgskiy district court”) declared the applicant legally incapable in her absence. on 11 october 2004 the vyborgskiy district court rejected the applicant’s latest request that the court examine her appeal. the applicant thus regained her legal capacity. on 7 march 2008 an emergency doctor was called to attend to the applicant and found that she required hospitalisation. four days later his status as a legal guardian was cancelled and transferred to the hospital. the lawyer supported his complaint with a copy of the power of attorney that the applicant had issued to him on 21 june 2005 for her application to the court. it relied on the applicant’s medical history since 2001 and her state of health leading to her hospitalisation in 2008. after the presentation the applicant was brought into the courtroom and was informed about her rights. she then said that she wanted to go home and did not wish to continue her treatment. on 15 september 2009 the st petersburg city court quashed the decision of 30 june 2009 and reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment of 10 march 2009. on 17 march 2011 the st petersburg city court dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant, having fully endorsed the petrodvortsovyy district court’s reasoning. however, on 6 august 2013 the petrodvortsovyy district court confirmed its previous decision stripping the applicant of her full capacity, having stated that the amendment to the law had not yet entered into force. on 28 november 2013 the st petersburg city court upheld the judgment on appeal. the judgment of 29 june 2009 was not appealed against and it therefore became final. on 14 february 2013 the koptevskiy district court reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal. the applicant allegedly learnt that he had been stripped of legal capacity only in 2012. having found that in 2003 the dmitrovskiy district court had examined the applicant’s case in his absence despite the lack of any information on the applicant’s ability to attend, the moscow regional court quashed the judgment of 7 august 2003. it then proceeded to re-examine the merits of the case. she asked the court to reset the time-limit for lodging an appeal in view of the lack of notification about the proceedings and her absence from the hearing.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in senica. the court relied on the testimony of p.p., on 24 october 2006 the trnava regional court (krajský súd) dismissed an interlocutory appeal (sťažnosť) by the applicant. on 6 december 2006 a police investigator charged the applicant and fifteen other people with establishing, masterminding and supporting a criminal group. the applicant was also charged with aggravated coercion, extortion, and causing bodily harm. it relied on the particularly serious and organised nature of the offences he was charged with, and held that there was a real danger that he might influence witnesses and contact other perpetrators in order to tamper with evidence. on 16 march 2007 the special court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 october 2007. on 17 april 2007 the police investigator charged the applicant with another count of extortion. the court took into account the complexity of the criminal investigation, finding that there had been no undue delays. on 17 march 2008 the applicant’s detention was extended until 7 july 2008. the special court added that his detention assisted the investigation, since the victims were willing to testify, but still not all of the members of the criminal group had been identified. on 26 march 2008 the supreme court dismissed an interlocutory appeal by the applicant. the bill of indictment concerned sixteen criminal acts, eighteen defendants and fourteen victims. on 25 june 2008 the special court examined the grounds for the applicant’s detention and ruled that he should remain in detention. on 16 july 2009 the special court dismissed another application by the applicant for release. it held that several witnesses were afraid to testify against him in his presence and had thus been heard in his absence. he remained in detention pending the outcome of an appeal. it held that the supreme court, in its decision of 10 june 2010, had failed to respond to all of the applicant’s arguments. although the supreme court had examined in detail the applicant’s arguments regarding the grounds for his detention, it had failed to respond to his other arguments, such as one about the impartiality and independence of the tribunal reviewing his detention, and another about alleged shortcomings in his representation during the judicial review, and thus the court had breached article 5 § 4 of the convention. the hearings were scheduled on a monthly or near monthly basis.
the applicants were born in 1935, 1945 and 1956 respectively and live in ploieşti. in 1975 a group of engineers patented an invention concerning a method for separating hydrocarbon. the first applicant is one of the inventors. the second and third applicants are heirs of the other members of the group. in a decision of 24 june 2002 the braşov county court allowed in part the action lodged by the applicants against company r., and ordered the latter to pay to the first applicant 2,284,679,617 romanian lei (rol), an amount representing compensation for the use, between 1985 and 1988, of the invention patented in 1975. on 10 march 2004 the applicants and company r. signed an agreement for the payment of the compensation awarded by the court. between 2 and 21 april 2004 the company paid about 20% of the amounts granted. meanwhile, on 31 march 2004 company r. had sought its judicial reorganisation under a procedure provided for by law no. 64/1995 on judicial reorganisation and bankruptcy. the applicants lodged an objection to the register of claims, asking to be recognised as priority creditors (creditori privilegiaţi). eleven other creditors also lodged objections against the records in the register of claims. in 2006 company r. paid its debts in accordance with the plan. on 11 october 2007 the braşov county court held a hearing on the objections to the register of claims lodged by the applicants. the first applicant was present at the hearing to represent both himself and the other applicants. on that date, in the applicants’ absence, it adjourned delivery of the judgment to 1 november 2007. the county court gave its judgment on 1 november 2007; it found against the applicants. on 23 january 2008, in accordance with the rules on notification in relation to court documents in insolvency proceedings (see paragraph 20 below), the judgment of 1 november 2007 was published in the bulletin of insolvency proceedings (buletinul procedurilor de insolvenţă, “the bulletin”). on 13 february 2008 they lodged an appeal by post. relying on the constitutional court’s decision no. 1137 of 4 december 2007 (see paragraph 21 below), the court of appeal considered that the notification procedure via the bulletin had offered sufficient safeguards to the participants in the proceedings, and had been justified by the nature of the insolvency procedure.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chișinău. he was charged with bribery in the context of public auctions. more than twenty persons were accused in the same criminal case. as of july 2015, the applicant was the only accused who was kept in custody. after arrest the applicant was placed in the nac detention facility. the applicant argued every time that he was ready to give up his passport and that there were no reasons to believe that he would attempt influencing witnesses or hindering the investigation. the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the court of appeal on 14 may 2015. by decisions dated 1 and 26 june, 21 july 2015 and 15 august 2015 the buiucani district court prolonged the applicant’s detention for twenty‑five days each time. the court relied on similar reasons as before. the court did not state what that evidence was. however, when examining the appeal against the second decision, the same panel of judges considered that the risk of the applicant’s absconding was no longer justified and that there were no new reasons to consider necessary the applicant’s continued detention. however, the prison administration refused to follow the doctors’ prescription. hospitalisation was again prescribed, but the prison administration refused to follow the doctors’ prescription. at 11.44 a.m. an ambulance was called again for the applicant. the doctors diagnosed again “lumbar radiculopathy” and discopathie with a possible lesion of the nerve. at 2 p.m. the administration invited several doctors from the institute of neurology and neurosurgery who confirmed the initial diagnosis and the urgent need for hospitalisation. he remained in hospital until 21 april 2015, when he was moved to a prison hospital. they recommended him surgical removal of his gall bladder within maximum seven days. he had high fever and presented a swelling. after three days of preparations, he was subjected to surgery on 6 august 2015 and remained in intensive care for another week.
the applicants were born in 1939 and 1944 respectively and live in dumbrăvița, timiș county. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, refer to the same context and domestic criminal proceedings as those described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011) and şandru and others v. romania (no. between 17 and 28 december 1989 many people, including the applicants’ son, participated in anti-communism demonstrations in timișoara, bucharest and other cities in romania. the applicants’ son was killed by gunfire on 23 december 1989 in timișoara. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations. a main criminal investigation concerning the use of violence against civilians in bucharest and other cities was also registered with the highest prosecutor’s office – the military prosecutors section − under no. in cases concerning the events in timișoara, a separate investigation was carried out under file no. 11/p/1996, culminating in the referral to court and subsequent conviction of senior military officers by a decision of the high court of cassation and justice of 3 april 2007, which became final on 15 october 2008. as is apparent from the documents submitted by the parties, the death of the applicants’ son did not form part of this investigation, but in the court proceedings the first applicant nonetheless lodged a civil claim regarding his son’s death during the december 1989 events. the court dismissed it on the grounds that he had failed to submit documents substantiating this claim. as acknowledged by the government, both applicants are parties in the main criminal investigation file. on 26 june 2013 they brought civil claims before the prosecutor requesting the right to participate, being civil parties in this file. the applicants had first made statements and raised civil claims in criminal investigation files other than file no. 97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014) on 11 january 1990 and 1 march 2000. the parties did not inform the court whether these files had been joined to the main criminal investigation (see paragraph 8 above). the most important steps taken by the prosecutors in the main criminal investigation are summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others v. romania ([committee] nos. 43629/13 and 74 others, §§ 10‑11, 7 november 2017). on 14 october 2015 the prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the offences of homicide and instigation to homicide of which the applicants’ son had been a victim had become statute‑barred. although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it is apparent from the prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed and to date the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others, cited above, § 11).
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in atyrau, kazakhstan. in june 2011 the applicant arrived in turkey. as the applicant applied for asylum while in detention, on 28 october 2011 he was released pending the determination of his asylum application. on the same day a police officer from denizli security headquarters held a preliminary interview with the applicant. the applicant stated that he had learned that he was being sought for by the kazakhstan authorities on terrorism charges and asked to be granted leave to stay in turkey. on 28 november 2011 the applicant was notified that his asylum application had been rejected. according to the report of 22 november 2011, the police officer who had interviewed the applicant found that the latter had failed to submit any concrete evidence concerning his nationality, identity and the problems he had experienced in kazakhstan. according to the government’s submissions, on 26 december 2011 his objection was dismissed. according to the document prepared by the embassy, the applicant and four other persons were members of the “islamic jihad union”, a terrorist organisation which carried out terrorist attacks in the western region of kazakhstan. on 23 january 2012 the interpol-europol department attached to the general police headquarters informed the ministry of justice and a number of security departments that a red notice had been issued by kazakhstan via interpol in respect of the applicant on the basis of terrorism-related offences. on 27 january 2012 the bakırköy assize court dismissed the applicant’s petition challenging his detention. on 28 february 2012 the bakırköy assize court rejected the extradition request submitted by the kazakhstan authorities. the decision of 28 february 2012 became final as no appeal was lodged against it. the applicant claimed that the centre had been overcrowded at the time of his detention. he had not been allowed exercise outdoors or any other type of social activity throughout his detention. detainees were accommodated on three floors: the first two floors were reserved for male detainees, and the third floor for females. there were four dormitory rooms on the first floor, respectively measuring 50, 58, 76 and 84 sq. m. on the second floor there were five dormitories measuring 50, 58, 69, 76 and 84 sq. there were also five showers and six toilets per floor, as well as a cafeteria measuring 69 sq. as for the hygiene in the facility, there were six cleaning staff working full time.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is detained in atyrau, kazakhstan. between january and november 2010 the applicant was constantly harassed by the police, taken into police custody and ill-treated. in january 2010 he was asked to go to a police station as a friend of his had informed the police that the applicant had witnessed a fight between him and another friend of the applicant. on that day a statement was taken from him by the police. he was eventually released from police custody. on 27 november 2010 the applicant left kazakhstan and arrived in turkey. he then went to syria twice and also to georgia. on 5 july 2011 one of the applicant’s representatives, mr a. yılmaz, lodged an objection to the decision to reject the applicant’s asylum application with the police department responsible for foreigners, borders and asylum attached to the istanbul police headquarters. the lawyer asked the authorities to review their decision and to conduct a second interview with the applicant. he received no response to his application. he submitted that the applicant was being sought for by the kazakhstan authorities for political reasons and that he would be persecuted on the basis of his religious convictions and subjected to torture and ill-treatment if deported to his country. in support of his petition dated 22 august 2011, the applicant’s lawyer submitted a document showing that the applicant was being sought for by the public authorities in atyrau on suspicion of having committed the offence of “hooliganism”, proscribed by article 257 § 3 of the kazakhstan criminal code, as in force at the material time. on 29 september 2011 the applicant went to sakarya, where he lived until 15 march 2012. the lawyer noted that he had received a phone call from the applicant, who had stated that he would be deported to kazakhstan, where he would be subjected to torture. the lawyer stated that he did not have information supported by any document as to whether the applicant had been subjected to ill-treatment in kazakhstan. on 13 february 2013 the ankara administrative court dismissed the application lodged by the applicant on 22 march 2012. between 9 june and 13 september 2011 the applicant was detained at the kumkapı foreigners’ removal centre. he had not been allowed exercise outdoor or any other type of social activity throughout his detention. there were four dormitory rooms on the first floor, measuring 50, 58, 76 and 84 sq. m. on the second floor there were five dormitories measuring 50, 58, 69, 76 and 84 sq.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chişinău. the applicant was residing at the material time in brussels, belgium. on 5 october 2009 the applicant was extradited to the moldovan authorities. each time, the reasons for his detention were that it was an exceptional case, that there was a reasonable suspicion that he had committed serious offences punishable by imprisonment, that the criminal case was complex and that if released the applicant could interfere with the investigation, influence the witnesses and victims, re-offend or abscond (as he had earlier been declared a wanted person). on 22 february 2012 the bălți court of appeal, acting as a court of first instance, acquitted the applicant and ordered his release from detention. he was placed in a remand facility situated in a basement. the total surface was of 3 square metres, with no bed, chair, toilet facilities or washstand. he slept for four days on a concrete floor, using a bucket for his needs. he also claims that he was fed only once per day with soup and a slice of bread. the applicant was detained with seven to twelve other inmates. he was detained there with twelve other detainees. the cell was equipped with twelve wooden beds. on the date of his arrival he was not fed. the cell was equipped with only fourteen beds and the detainees had to sleep in turns. the applicant described his conditions of detention as follows: toilet insufficiently separated from the cell, lack of a washstand, lack of water and ventilation, lack of adequate lighting, damp and cold cell. on 30 december 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the prosecutor’s office complaining about the poor conditions of detention. in a reply dated 10 january 2011, the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that his complaint about the poor conditions of detention was well founded and that following a control carried out in prison no. on 15 january 2011 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 21 with a total surface of 16 square metres. the applicant also contends that he was bitten by parasitic insects present in the cell.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained in chișinău. the applicant further submitted that she was transferred to prison no. 13, where she was detained in a cell with sixteen other inmates and was subjected to passive smoking. she was not provided with bedding and was not able to sleep normally. on 30 march 2011 she was released from detention and was placed under house arrest. according to the government, during her detention in prison no. 108 and 110, each designed to hold eight detainees and measuring 18 sq. all the cells were regularly disinfected. 13, she was not provided the medical assistance required for her condition. according to the applicant, while in detention, her state of health deteriorated. in both detention facilities there was no specialist oncologist and chemotherapy was unavailable. the government submitted that from 24 april 2010 to 9 july 2012 the applicant had refused on several occasions to be hospitalised either in the prison hospital (prison no. on two occasions the applicant had refused to undergo inpatient treatment at the institute of oncology, which was a specialist civilian hospital. in its reports for 2013, 2014 and 2015 on conditions of detention, the centre for human rights in moldova (“the human rights centre”, which also acts as the moldovan ombudsman) found serious problems in prison no. 13, notably concerning overcrowding, food quality, ventilation and access to daylight. the delegation was informed during the 2015 visit that the opening of a new 1,500-place remand prison in the chișinău area, financed in large part by a loan from the council of europe development bank, was now envisaged for june 2018. the moldovan authorities recognised that the size of the prison population and the resulting overcrowding in prisons constituted a major challenge. indeed, the delegation observed for itself that the national standard of at least 4 m2 of living space per prisoner was far from being met in most of the prison establishments visited; in particular at chișinău and soroca prisons, the levels of overcrowding had reached disturbing proportions. the cpt recommends that the moldovan authorities make vigorous efforts – in consultation with the prosecutorial and judicial authorities – to eradicate prison overcrowding, in the light of the above-mentioned remarks. it is also a matter of concern that, like their male counterparts, female prisoners generally spent 22 hours confined to their cells; they were usually not offered any other activity apart from two hours of outdoor exercise per day.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in canada. passed everything he had found on the applicant on to constable e.l. these were: abrasions on the left part of the applicant’s forehead (αριστερή μετωπιαία χώρα) and left shoulder blade (ωμοπλάτη). on 1 march 2011 the applicant was taken to the emergency department of limassol general hospital owing to vomiting and dizziness. on 2 march 2011, in the light of the applicant’s lawyer’s complaint (see 16 paragraph above), the limassol police appointed an investigating officer, police chief inspector m.m., he did not mention any injuries in his statement. had been injured while trying to arrest the applicant and that he had been put on sick leave by the doctor who had examined him at the hospital. the officers had slapped and punched him on the face and body all the way to the police station. one of the officers had stood on his handcuffs while another one had kicked him. the officer had also threatened that his boss mr y. would put him in prison if he did not withdraw his complaint. who had made no mention of the applicant’s appearance in his previous statement, in his statement of 26 august 2011 stated that when the applicant had been brought to the detention facilities he had noticed that he had been upset (αναστατωμένος) and red in the face. in his statement of 18 september 2011 stated that he could not remember the applicant’s teeth or what type of scratches the applicant had had on his face. - the applicant had stated that they had taken everything from him in the car yet according to the evidence given by constable p.p. the investigator pointed out that this did not mean that he accepted the facts as described by all the officers as, on the basis of their version of the events, one would expect that the applicant would have had fewer injuries. the applicant had explained his behaviour by stating that he had thought it had been a robbery. by a letter dated 7 march 2012 to the attorney general, the applicant’s lawyer expressed his disappointment concerning the conclusions of the investigation and pointed out that no explanation had been given, at least in respect of the ill-treatment the applicant had been subjected to at the police station while handcuffed and as a result of which he had ended up in hospital. had failed to ask the officers about the applicant’s injuries and how they had happened; nor had he asked constable p.p., who had visited the applicant in hospital. in so far as the investigator in the first investigation had informed the second investigator of the admission of inspector i.s., this, in combination with the fact that it had not been clarified which of the officers had allegedly ill-treated him, led to the conclusion that it was extremely difficult to establish the commission of any offences by any of the officers.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 2007 respectively and live in i̇zmir. on 25 october 2008, as the first applicant was driving in i̇zmir with his wife and one year-old daughter in the back seat, he lost control of his car when the road curved into a sharp bend. as a result, the car dropped into an empty concrete canal running along the right-hand side of the road, some five to six metres below the level of the road. the first applicant’s wife, yeşim çakır, lost her life at the spot and his daughter (the second applicant) was slightly injured. after the accident the first applicant was taken to a police station to give a statement. however, since the barrier had been damaged prior to the incident, it had not stopped the car and, therefore, the car had dropped down into the empty canal. he claimed that he had lost control of the car as a result of the dangerous bend in the road. later the same day the i̇zmir public prosecutor questioned the first applicant in connection with the accident. the first applicant admitted before the public prosecutor that he had lost control of the car as he had been taking the bend. that judgment, which was not appealed against by the first applicant, became final on 23 december 2008. the expert report submitted to the i̇zmir magistrates’ court on 5 december 2008 made the following findings:
-  the crash barrier at the bend in question had been damaged prior to the accident and the damaged parts of it had not been repaired after the accident;
-  there was a slight dent in the road right by the damaged barrier; however, there was no structural problem with the slope of the road surface. on 20 may 2009 the applicants brought an action for compensation before the i̇zmir administrative court against the municipality alone, arguing that the latter had been responsible for yeşim çakır’s death on account of its failure to repair the crash barrier in a timely manner, as well as the possible structural problems with the road. the applicants submitted to the administrative court as evidence the expert report ordered by the i̇zmir magistrates’ court (see paragraph 15 above). they requested an expert examination on that matter. it appears from the information submitted by the authorities that the repair work in question fell under the responsibility of the municipality. on 16 april 2010 the applicants once again requested an expert examination of the road in order to establish any structural problems that may have triggered the accident. it appears that the administrative court did not obtain the information requested by the applicants. it therefore rejected the applicants’ claims against the municipality. the applicants appealed against that judgment. on 25 january 2011 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir administrative court.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in novocheboksarsk. the facts of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody were established in a judgment of the novocheboksarsk town court of the chuvash republic (“the town court”) of 22 august 2008 and upheld on 11 november 2008 by the supreme court of the chuvash republic. on 10 april 2007 the applicant was stopped by police officers on a street near his home and taken to district police station no. 1 of novocheboksarsk to have his identity checked. at the police station a district police officer (участковый уполномоченный милиции), officer m. from the novocheboksarsk town police station, who wore a police uniform, threatened the applicant by saying that a criminal case against him would be opened, grabbed him by his clothing, violently pushed him backwards against a wall several times and punched his left ear. according to a forensic medical expert’s report, the applicant had a traumatic rupture of the left eardrum with a haemorrhage, which caused a short-term – lasting between six and twenty-one days – health disorder. accordingly, this qualified as “insignificant” health damage. officer m. was convicted under article 286 § 3 (a) of the criminal code (abuse of power with the use of violence) and sentenced to three years’ imprisonment and a two‑year ban on exercising official power. in january 2009 the applicant brought a civil claim in the amount of 312,487 russian roubles (rub) against the ministry of finance of the chuvash republic in respect of non-pecuniary damage. he argued, inter alia, that his ill‑treatment by the police had amounted to inhuman and degrading treatment proscribed by article 3 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (“the convention”), and that, in accordance with the plenary supreme court resolution no. 5 of 10 october 2003, the domestic courts were to apply the convention in accordance with the case-law of the european court of human rights (“the court”). he also argued that, in calculating the amount of compensation due in respect of non‑pecuniary damage for a violation of the convention, the domestic courts therefore had to take into account the sums awarded by the court under article 41 of the convention in similar cases. he stated that his claim had been calculated based on the sum awarded by the court in the case of ribitsch, in which a violation of article 3 of the convention had been found on account of inhuman and degrading treatment in police custody (see ribitsch v. austria, 4 december 1995, series a no. on 6 april 2009 the town court allowed the applicant’s civil claim in part. it noted that, under article 61 § 4 of the code of civil procedure, a judgment in a criminal case which had become enforceable was binding on a court examining the civil-law consequences of the acts of a person against whom the judgment had been delivered, in so far as it established whether those acts had taken place and whether they had been committed by that person. article 53 of the constitution and articles 151 and 1069 of the civil code provided for state liability for harm caused to individuals by state agents. relying on articles 1099-1101 of the civil code of the russian federation and section 8 of the plenary supreme court resolution no. the applicant appealed against the judgment. however, this does not mean that the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage determined by the european court of human rights in a specific case has a binding effect on national courts examining other cases where a violation of similar norms and principles can be found. the determination of the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage in specific cases is the prerogative of national courts examining such cases.”
the applicant is a roman catholic community in bosnia and herzegovina, based in sarajevo. by decision of 9 may 2003, which became final and binding on 4 september 2003, the human rights chamber for bosnia and herzegovina (“the chamber”) found that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) had discriminated against the applicant in its enjoyment of the right to freedom of religion guaranteed by article 9 of the convention. in order to remedy the situation it ordered the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to ensure the relocation of public schools housed in the archdiocese high school building in travnik, and to reinstate the applicant in the premises within one year. the chamber rejected a request by the applicant for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages. by an agreement of 21 may 2004, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina undertook to reinstate the applicant in the impugned premises by 1 july 2006. shortly thereafter, the travnik municipal council adopted the implementing decisions, and also one of the public schools was moved from the premises. on 23 june 2010 the travnik municipal council issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 5 october 2011 the travnik cantonal court quashed that decision and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 17 october 2011 the travnik municipal court held that it lacked jurisdiction to deal with the case. on 16 may 2012 the travnik cantonal court quashed that decision and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 3 july 2012 the travnik municipal court held that the decisions of the chamber were not subject to enforcement proceedings. on 12 july 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. at the date of the latest information available to the court (28 august 2017), the travnik cantonal court had not yet ruled on the matter. on 30 october 2012 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina determined that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina had not yet fully enforced the decision of 9 may 2003. on 17 february 2017 the applicant initiated civil proceedings against the public school remaining in its premises, requesting its relocation, as well as damages for the use of the premises for the period between 1 february 2014 and 1 june 2017. on 14 july 2017 the municipal court in travnik rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour, rewarding in full its claims finally specified in the proceedings, namely 270,360 convertible marks (bam)[1] for pecuniary damages and 6,713 bam for costs and expenses. the municipal court also ordered the respondent to vacate the applicant’s premises within 30 days from receiving the judgment. on 20 december 2017 the cantonal court in novi travnik upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. at the date of the latest information available to the court (20 february 2018), the central bosnia canton submitted a revision petition to the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina against the final judgment in these proceedings. it also appears that the public school has still not been relocated.
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, § 12-41, 24 may 2011). the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, brașov and vișina which led to the fall of the communist regime. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s offices from several cities opened criminal investigations into the use of violence against the demonstrators, including the applicants’ injury or their close relatives’ death during these events. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. in a number of cases the prosecutor decided between 1991 and 1996 not to open an investigation or to discontinue the proceedings. these cases were further examined in the main criminal investigation file irrespective of a formal decision ordering re-opening, applicants being questioned by the prosecutor and raising civil claims, according to the circumstances of each case. the most important procedural steps were described in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41), and also in ecaterina mirea and others v. romania (nos. 43626/13 and 69 others, §§ 6-15, 12 april 2016). subsequent relevant domestic decisions are shown below. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty, and partly ill-founded. it also found that some of the occurrences could not be classified as offences and some were res judicatae (see anamaria-loredana orășanu and others v. romania [committee], no. the decision of 14 october 2015 was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation in file no. 11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact. up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the hearing of military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television. at the date of the latest information available to the court (submitted by the parties on 13 april 2017 and 19 may 2017), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in tbilisi. his initial term of imprisonment was consequently extended by one year. on 6 january 2006 the applicant was placed in tbilisi prison no. 7”) to serve the sentences referred to in paragraphs 7-8 above. the search was filmed by a cameraman from the prison service (“the video recording”). it later became apparent that the bed in question belonged to the applicant. the prison officers who had conducted the search on 8 august 2006 were summonsed by the trial court as witnesses for the prosecution. that information was essential for the purposes of assessing whether or not the search had been conducted in a manner involving an abuse of his rights. the applicant further complained during his last pleading before the trial court on 23 february 2007 of the inability to have the witnesses on his behalf, the seven cellmates, examined under the same conditions as those for the prosecution. he was sentenced to three years in prison. in particular, in his complaint about the lower court’s refusal to examine his cellmates, he asked the tbilisi court of appeal to do so. reiterating his previous arguments as to why he considered the cellmates to be important witnesses (see paragraph 19 above), he argued that, without examining them, it would not be possible for the appellate court to establish objectively the real circumstances surrounding the search of 8 august 2006. suddenly, there was a sound of metal hitting the floor, and an officer picked up an object, which resembled a small penknife. according to the medical documents available in the case file, on 7 november 2007 the applicant complained for the first time to the prison administration of a high fever and a dry cough. on 10 november he was transferred to the prison hospital. the applicant was occasionally coughing up blood. 7, where he continued his course of antibiotics under the supervision of a doctor of that prison for an additional five months. upon completion of the dots programme on 13 january 2008, the applicant’s sputum culture was subjected to another set of comprehensive laboratory tests, the results of which confirmed that tb bacilli were no longer present in the applicant’s organism. in may 2010, in line with the medical opinion of 13 november 2007 (see paragraph 28 above), the prison service arranged for a full biochemical analysis of the applicant’s blood for the purpose of elaboration of a specific treatment plan for his hcv. he wrote a note to that effect, which was dated 2 june 2010.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in batelov. in 1965 he had a sexual relationship with a woman who gave birth to a daughter, z., on 2 march 1966. as the applicant denied that he was the father, z.’s legal guardian brought proceedings on her behalf in the jihlava district court (okresní soud) for a declaration of paternity. after giving birth to z., but before initiating the aforementioned proceedings, the mother married another man. on 23 april 1970 the district court found that the applicant was z.’s father and ordered him to contribute to her maintenance. the court reached its finding after hearing evidence from several witnesses. in addition, it established that the applicant had had intercourse with the mother sometime between 300 and 180 days before z.’s birth. in such cases, a presumption of paternity arose under article 54 of the family code, unless there were clear grounds to rebut the presumption. another man had also had intercourse with the mother at the crucial time, however, the blood test established that he was not the father. the regional court denied the request because the facts had been proved to a sufficient degree. it eventually upheld the judgment of the district court on 2 june 1970, which became final on 10 june 1970. in 2011 the applicant requested that the prosecutor general (nejvyšší státní zástupce) challenge his paternity in court. by a letter of 21 june 2011 he was informed that the requirements of article 62 of the family code to initiate such proceedings had not been met. z., by that time an adult, did not want to challenge paternity, it was not in her interests and the applicant had not produced any expert evidence credibly disproving it. on 29 february 2012 the applicant and z. underwent a dna examination. the resulting report of 19 april 2012 unequivocally confirmed that the applicant was not z.’s father. the prosecutor general only had that specific competence as regards statutory presumptions of paternity under articles 51 § 1 and 52 of the family code. when paternity had been established by a judicial declaration under article 54 of that code and the judgment had come into legal force, as in the applicant’s case, the law did not provide for any possibility to challenge it. he also argued that articles 61 § 1 and 62 § 1 of the family code were unconstitutional. on 13 december 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s complaint.
the applicants’ years of birth and home addresses are listed in the appendix. nida is governed by a board of members composed of seven people. the report further stated that the two remaining molotov cocktails could be considered explosive devices because there had been a syringe with gunpowder attached to the bottles. the relevant part of the decision concerning the first applicant stated:
“... rashad zeynalabdin oglu hasanov has been charged on the basis of sufficient charging evidence because in early march 2013 in baku, in an organised group with b.g., in each case, the prosecutor used the exact same wording as in the decisions charging the applicants. in that connection, the appellate court held that the nasimi district court had correctly taken into account the seriousness of the criminal offence attributed to the applicants and the likelihood that if released they might abscond or obstruct the normal functioning of the investigation. he claimed, in particular, that his detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 27 april 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding it unfounded. no further extension decisions were included in the case file. on 24 june 2013 the nasimi district court extended the second applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 1 october 2013. the court substantiated the need for the extension by the complexity of the case, the gravity of the charges and the need for additional time to carry out further investigative measures. on 17 july 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding that the grounds for his pre-trial detention had not changed. on 25 july 2013 the baku court of appeal upheld the first-instance court’s decision. the government did not make a copy of the appeal available to the court. on 15 april 2013 the fourth applicant lodged a request with the nasimi district court asking to be put under house arrest in place of pre‑trial detention. on 17 april 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request. on 20 june 2013 the prosecutor in charge of the criminal case lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the fourth applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of three months, submitting that more time was needed to complete the investigation. he reiterated that there was no reasonable suspicion that he had committed a criminal offence and that the first-instance court had failed to justify its decision. on 15 october 2015 the supreme court upheld the appellate court’s judgment in respect of the second and fourth applicants. on 17 march 2016 the first and fourth applicants were also released from serving the remainder of their sentence after being pardoned by a presidential decree.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kumanovo. the applicant had been in pre-trial detention since 21 october 2008 in connection with proceedings (кок бр. at the same time the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be held in pre-trial detention for thirty days, starting from 25 december 2009. as to the risk of absconding and reoffending, the judge relied on the gravity of the charges, the potential penalty, the circumstances under which the alleged offences had been committed and the links between the suspects. on 30 december 2009 a three-judge panel of the trial court, dismissed the applicant’s appeal and endorsed the investigating judge’s findings. as to the risk of the applicant’s absconding, the panel, in addition to the gravity of the charges and the potential penalty, took into account his previous history of being in “conflict with the law” (и претходно доаѓал во судир со законот) and the fact that there were parallel criminal proceedings against him for similar criminal offences. the panel based its decision on the same reasons as before. the applicant was charged with money laundering, abuse of office and extortion. on 24 march 2010 a three-judge panel ordered another thirty-day extension of the pre-trial detention of the applicant and other accused. the panels had referred to his family situation and possessions, without providing an explanation for why they considered that those circumstances were not sufficient to guarantee his presence at trial. in that connection, the court took into account the accused’s request to replace detention with house arrest or another, more lenient, measure ... but the court has dismissed that request because in its view, at this stage of the proceedings, custody in prison is the only effective measure to exclude the risk of the accused absconding ...” 19. on 23 july 2010 the applicant again applied for release on bail because his wife had had an operation and was unable to take care of their children. as security, he offered immovable property owned by third persons (accompanied by written statements by the owners certified by a notary public), whose value was estimated at eur 1,230,614. furthermore, another person offered to make a court deposit of eur 100,000. on 25 october 2010 the applicant again applied for release on bail. lastly, the applicant was advised that he could lodge an appeal against the decision with the court of appeal. the applicant appealed against the panel’s decision. on 6 december 2010 the skopje court of appeal upheld his appeal and overturned the panel’s decision. it further ordered that the applicant be put under house arrest. the court of appeal considered that the proposed bail was a sufficient guarantee of the applicant’s presence during the proceedings, given his personal circumstances and the gravity of the charges.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1964 respectively and live in plovdiv. underwent a medical examination, which revealed several bruises on her head, neck, arms and knees. when questioned by the investigator, s.d. with whom he had previously had an intimate relationship, and that she had accepted the invitation. on 13 march 1998 she had gone with the two applicants to premises in plovdiv city centre for a coffee, and on arriving there, they had found that the coffee machine was not working. to carry out a number of additional investigative measures himself. both applicants appeared to have consumed alcohol. then she had had non-consensual sex twice with mr dimitrov and once with mr momin. his request was rejected on 2 july 2001 by the prosecutor i.p., ’s statement of 19 december 2000 in evidence. the court also heard evidence from the two applicants, the three police officers who had attended to s.d. ’s statement, the findings of the expert medical opinion and the statements of the other witnesses questioned. the plovdiv regional court heard the case between 27 june and 4 july 2007. it ordered two expert medical opinions on the basis of the evidence to establish the process and causes of an episode of hypoglycaemia, and to check the accounts given by s.d. mr dimitrov had threatened her and hit her several times. they had carried on threatening her, holding her down and beating her, and in that way had forced her to have sex with each of them. subsequently, they had all left the premises in a taxi, which had dropped the applicants off at a restaurant and s.d. ’s statement of 19 december 2000, the statements by the three police officers who had attended to her at the police station the day after the events and had carried out the initial investigative steps, the statement by s.d. the supreme court of cassation found that the applicants’ right to participate in the questioning of s.d. it noted that the regional court had examined and rejected all the arguments casting doubt on the statement.
the applicant company is engaged in the cultivation of mussels in castlemaine harbour in co. kerry, one of several sites in ireland where this commercial activity is exercised. a sea-fishing boat licence is required, and the boat used must be entered in the register of fishing boats. the harbour’s spa classification took effect in 1994. following three reasoned opinions issued in october 2001 and july 2003, the commission brought infringement proceedings against ireland in september 2004, pursuant to article 226 ec (now article 258 tfeu). ... [r]egarding the aquaculture programmes, the commission relies, essentially, on the review of the aquaculture licensing system in ireland carried out in 2000 by birdwatch ireland as the basis for its view that ireland has systematically failed to carry out a proper assessment of those projects situated in spas or likely to have effects on spas, contrary to article 6(3) and (4) of the habitats directive. accordingly, when granting authorisation for mussel seed fishing for the period 9 june to 1 july 2008, he prohibited it in 24 locations around the irish coast, including castlemaine harbour (statutory instrument no. the applicant company was informed of the situation by an official of the department on 6 june 2008. to this end, a series of steps was proposed. in early september 2008, the marine institute submitted to the department a finalised study entitled “fisheries in natura 2000”. the department was hopeful that the commission would tolerate an interim approach to the activities in castlemaine harbour, where the situation was time critical. in october 2009 the applicant company sought discovery of documents on a voluntary basis. on 9 may 2012 the applicant company requested a hearing date. on 21 july 2014 the state certified that the appeal was ready for hearing. it was unclear at what point in time the minister had acted wrongfully in relation to the plaintiffs. it might be said that, by allowing aquaculture to continue prior to 2008, the minister had actually had regard to the applicant company’s interests, even at the cost of failed adherence to eu law. it was not just and reasonable to impose liability in the circumstances of the case. he did not consider that the minister had owed a duty of care to the plaintiffs in 2008. he considered that this ruled out any question of liability in negligence. yet it was hard to argue that castlemaine harbour was more deserving than the other locations. concerning the events of 2010, he noted that the applicant company had not provided evidence allowing a causal link to be established between the alleged failure on the part of the minister and its inability to conduct its business that year.
the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables. the applicants were employees of a municipal education institution. on 13 june 2001 they brought proceedings before the kolomna town court of the moscow region (“the town court”) against their employer and the town administration seeking recovery of unpaid wages and taxes to various social funds. on 13 july 2004 the kolomna town court issued a first-instance judgment on the merits of the case. on 22 september 2004 the moscow regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 7 july 2005 the town court granted the applicants’ claims awarding each of them a certain amount against their employer (see appendix i). the judgment was upheld on appeal by the moscow regional court on 28 september 2005. between 26 june 2001 and 7 july 2005 the court hearings were adjourned twenty-five times due to the respondents’ or one of the respondents’ failure to appear, eighteen times on the claimants’ request and eleven times pursuant the requests by the defendants; four times the first‑instance court adjourned the case as the respondent authorities had been requested to submit additional documents. moreover, on 11 june 2002 the proceedings were suspended pursuant to a decision by the domestic court on account of the claimants’ alleged failure to appear; on 4 february 2003 that decision was quashed by the appeal court, due to the first-instance court’s failure to notify the applicants of the hearing date. thus, the period attributable to the authorities amounts to over one year. on an unspecified date in 2005 the employer institution was liquidated. on 18 october 2005 the relevant record was made into the state register of legal entities. according to the government’s submissions of 19 july 2011, on 30 june 2006 the judgment of 7 july 2005 was partially enforced in respect of certain applicants, as specified in appendix i.
the first applicant was born in 1915 and lived in vilnius. since that forest was situated in a city (see paragraph 10 above), it was considered a forest of national importance and could therefore only be owned by the state (see paragraphs 86, 88 and 89 below). the prosecutor noted that the forest had been included in the plan of forests of national importance adopted by the government in 2002 (see paragraph 12 above), that is before the vca had adopted its decision to give that land to i.b. ’s property rights to 0.187 hectares of land, as well as the applicants’ rights to that part of the plot. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. the prosecutor and the ministry of environment contested the appeals. ’s property rights to 1.98 hectares of land, he had retained the right to have those property rights restored. on 14 december 2012 the nls approved the list of candidates to receive plots of land in several areas around vilnius. on 31 december 2012 the nls held a meeting in which candidates were offered plots in the relevant areas. on 29 january 2016 the nls adopted a decision to restore i.b. it also submitted that the decision to give the forest in question to the applicant and g.d. in addition, the applicant submitted that she had acquired the property in good faith and that ordering her to return it to the state would cause her serious difficulties (see paragraph 95 below). on 13 december 2010 the nls informed the applicant that, in accordance with the law, her property rights could be restored by assigning her a plot of land equal in value to the land held previously or by providing securities, but that there was no possibility of her receiving a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in a city. it is unclear whether the applicant replied to that letter or submitted any requests concerning the form of restoration of her property rights. the applicant was included in that list as a candidate to receive 1.12 hectares of land. it observed that it had no authority to directly order the vca to complete the restoration of the applicant’s property rights within that period of time, but that “the activity of the vca or its successor in the restitution process could constitute grounds for reducing the possible expenses of that institution, if [the applicant and j.s.] should not have been imposed on her but on the vca, since it was the latter which had acted unlawfully. on 29 march 2011 the supreme court refused to accept it for examination on the grounds that it raised no important legal issues. on 24 july 2012 the applicant received another letter from the nls. on 18 may 2016 the nls sent a letter to the applicant inviting her to attend a meeting of candidates on 1 june 2016 in which she would be offered a plot.
the first applicant is a russian national who was born in 1951 and lives in volzhskiy, in the volgograd region. on 14 july 2001 she obtained a new russian “internal passport” (a citizen’s identity document for use inside russia). on 11 april 2006 an official from the fms seized her russian passport, which was later destroyed. the report stated, in particular, that whereas the first applicant had been issued with a russian passport on 14 july 2001, she was not registered in the database of the ministry of foreign affairs as a person who had acquired russian citizenship. on 20 march 2007 the fms issued report no. the decision was subsequently quashed by means of supervisory review and the case was remitted for fresh examination. however, the fms did not set aside the decision to seize the first applicant’s passport, and a new passport was not issued to her either. the first applicant again instituted court proceedings, this time for a finding that the seizure of her passport had been unlawful. according to the second applicant, between 1987 and 2010 he lived in the rostov region. 1 of taganrog, in the rostov region, issued the second applicant with a russian passport. it appears to be impossible to question [v.] concerning the circumstances of the issue of the russian passport [to the second applicant], since she is absent from her place of residence. on 22 july 2010, when the second applicant turned 45, in accordance with the applicable procedure, he applied to the fms to exchange his passport. the second applicant received a verbal refusal to issue him with a new passport. on 27 september 2010 the kostroma region fms issued a decision to the effect that the second applicant was not a russian citizen. in 2004 the fms issued instructions for checks to be carried out only in respect of individuals who had applied to exchange their passports. [ in particular, it had not been confirmed that he had been living in russia on 6 february 1992. the court further dismissed the second applicant’s argument that the fact that he had been using the previously issued russian passport for eight years constituted a valid reason to exchange the passport. the court found that his passport was invalid regardless. the appeal court noted, in particular, that the certificate issued by the rostov region fms on 30 june 2010 showed that a russian passport had been issued to the second applicant on the basis of a certificate of 23 december 1998 issued by the department of the interior of the leninskiy district of rostov-on-don confirming that he was a russian citizen in accordance with section 13(1) of the 1991 law on citizenship of the russian federation. on 25 march 2013, following the entry into force of law no.
in 2005 the applicant, an information technology specialist, moved from kazakhstan to the krasnodar region in russia to live with his parents and brother, o.z., he resided there on the basis of visas and temporary residence permits. the applicant had requested the document with view to applying for russian nationality through the simplified procedure for spouses of russian nationals. in january 2009 the applicant submitted his application for russian nationality to the federal migration service in the krasnodar region (управление федеральной миграционной службы по краснодарскому краю (фмс)) (hereinafter “the krasnodar fms”). on 13 august 2009 the fsb informed the applicant about a decision it had made on the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting him from re-entering the country until july 2014 (hereinafter “the exclusion order”). on 24 march 2010 the regional court examined the applicant’s appeal in camera. shortly thereafter, in 2005, the kazakh authorities had opened a criminal case against the applicant on suspicion of computer fraud. from the documents submitted to the court, it is unclear whether the fsb presented the regional court with any evidence concerning the applicant’s case, other than its letter to the applicant of 13 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and copies of the relevant legal provisions governing the activities of the fsb and the applicable immigration regulations. he has never committed any crime, either in russia or kazakhstan. he does not represent a threat to the security of the russian federation. he does not have a place to live in kazakhstan. there is no evidence of any alleged criminal activities ...
... the fsb decided on the undesirability of mr zezev’s presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting his re-entry into the country until july 2014. the application of such preventive measures is within the federal security service’s scope of discretion. he pointed out that the fsb had not furnished any evidence to the court of alleged activities by him that posed a threat to national security. the applicant further stated that even though he was a kazakh national he was an ethnic russian, did not speak kazakh, and had nowhere to live in kazakhstan as his parents had also moved to russia in 2005. in may 2011 the applicant and his wife had another child. then the police detained him on the spot and took him to the court. on 26 december 2013 the applicant was deported from russia. on an unspecified date in february 2014 the applicant attempted to re-enter russia but was informed at the border that he was banned from entering until 31 july 2014. the government further stated that on 31 july 2014 the police in krasnodar had opened a criminal case against the applicant on suspicion of involvement in computer fraud.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in prague. in 2004 the applicant arrived in russia, where in 2005 she married mr i.p., a russian citizen, with whom in 2009 she had a daughter, also a russian national. the applicant and her family lived in st petersburg. the applicant lived in russia on the basis of regularly extended residence permits. on 15 october 2013 the applicant applied for russian citizenship. on 21 july 2014 the fms revoked the applicant’s residence permit, referring to the fsb’s recommendation. on 5 august 2014 the applicant was informed by fms that this revocation decision had been taken. on 6 august 2014 the applicant complained before the frunzenskiy district court of st petersburg (hereinafter “the district court”), alleging that the decision to annul her residence permit had been groundless. it had violated her right to respect for her family life, as it had compelled her to leave russia where her husband and minor child were living. on 8 august 2014 the district court refused to stay the enforcement of the decision. the court noted that the fms was the proper authority to impose the measure and that the relevant procedure had been complied with. as to whether the measure amounted to an interference with the applicant’s family life, the court noted that it was open to the applicant to obtain a visa so that she could come to russia to visit her family. the applicant’s counsel appealed against the above-mentioned decision to the city court, stating, amongst other things, that the district court had unlawfully refrained from judicial scrutiny of the factual circumstances which had served as the basis for the measure imposed on the applicant. lastly, he argued that the district court had failed to properly examine the interference with the applicant’s family life and to balance the interests at stake. on 18 december 2014 the city court examined the complaint in camera. it held that the fsb report and the recommendation had been issued in accordance with the statutory procedure and that they had therefore been lawful. in its decision, the court stated, in particular:
“... the allegations of the applicant’s representatives concerning the failure of the representatives of the federal security service to submit proof showing the necessity to send the impugned letter [recommending that the residence permit be revoked] to the federal migration service are unsubstantiated, as the federal security service’s information note on ms gaspar as presented to the court does not contain any such information.” in a separate request, he asked the supreme court to retrieve a full copy of the report and the relevant documents. the supreme court perused it and found it lawful.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in istanbul. 3167 – in force at the material time – for issuing an uncovered cheque. on 2 september 1999 the trial court held a preparatory hearing (tensip) and ordered that a summons be served on the applicant. post box] 5 bakırköy” as an alternative address. between 14 february 2000 and 13 october 2004 the trial court waited for the detention order to be executed. on 16 july 2001, in another set of criminal proceedings, the küçükçekmece public prosecutor’s office delivered a decision not to prosecute, in which it also indicated the applicant’s address as being “... avcılar / istanbul”. the seven-day time-limit for lodging an appeal against the judgment expired, and in the absence of an appeal it became final. at the police station, the applicant was informed that an arrest warrant had been issued against him following his conviction by a criminal court, and that he would be put in prison unless he paid the 500 turkish liras (try)[1] fine previously imposed by the court. the applicant, who was unaware of any criminal proceedings against him, requested the details of the judgment in question and applied to the registry of the bakırköy criminal court of first instance for further information. on 5 may 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal with the bakırköy criminal court of first instance, challenging the judgment in question on the grounds that it had been delivered in his absence and the accusations against him were ill-founded. had failed to do so, alleging that she had lost it. despite his instructions, he had not been contacted by his bank when the cheque in question had been deposited by i̇.ö., nor had he been advised that the cheque had bounced. on the same day the bakırköy civil court of first instance issued a summary judgment dismissing the applicant’s appeal as lodged out of time. 7201, and the appeal should therefore have been submitted by 8 november 2004. he emphasised that, although his accurate address details could easily have been obtained from the mayor of the neighbourhood, the judgment of october 2004 had been served at the address which his company had moved out of on 15 april 1999. in his absence, it had apparently been posted on the door of the building. he therefore requested that the judgment which had been delivered in his absence be quashed or rectified. on 21 september 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation delivered her opinion on the applicant’s appeal, where she requested that the first-instance court’s judgment of 5 may 2006 be quashed on account of the unlawful service of the initial judgment rendered in his absence. on 26 november 2006 the applicant was conditionally released.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in vilnius. was allocated social housing; she had no property of her own. on 5 august 2011 the investigator questioned a number of witnesses. informing her that the two boys were to be questioned by the pre-trial investigation judge. stated that she was very much afraid of the applicant. on 20 march 2012 the applicant lodged a written request for the prosecutor to stage a confrontation between him and the two children. the applicant also asked the prosecutor to obtain the applicant’s previous criminal file (see paragraphs 8 and 9 above), alleging that already in the course of those proceedings witnesses had stated that v.k. had not visited their sons at the children’s home, she was not interested in their lives, and she was keeping her residential address secret. she could not be reached by telephone either. the cross-examination of whom the prosecutor had refused earlier (see paragraphs 14 and 24 above). those witnesses stated that the boys had told them that the applicant had been physically violent, but that they had not mentioned having been abused sexually. however, the trial court acquitted the applicant of crimes listed under articles 153 and 309 § 4 of the criminal code because the applicant had denied committing those crimes and it was impossible to establish from the children’s testimony which pornographic films the applicant had shown to the children and when he had shown them. the applicant claimed that the reports by child psychiatrists ordered during proceedings in respect of the earlier case against the applicant contained information about the applicant’s behaviour towards his children in 2009. had intended to wrongfully accuse the applicant, and that she had “got rid of the children (atsikratė) immediately after (vos tik po)” they had been questioned and the expert examinations had been concluded, on 23 november 2011 (see paragraphs 19, 22 and 23 above). was registered as living within the kaunas municipality, but no specific residential address for her was registered. ’s testimony when finding the applicant guilty. the representative of the child welfare authority also pointed out that v.k. as can be seen from later court rulings, on 20 march 2012 the applicant submitted a number of requests to the prosecutor, including a repeated request that his spectacles be returned to him. accordingly, if the applicant had had problems with his vision, he could have asked the authorities to have his eyesight checked, an opportunity of which he had not availed himself. in sum, since the inconvenience caused to the applicant could have been easily resolved had he shown some initiative, and given that his need for spectacles had not been proved, the appellate court considered that an acknowledgement that the spectacles had been taken away constituted sufficient compensation for the damage suffered.
the applicant company was set up in 1998 as a limited liability company. it traded in scrap metal and for that purpose it purchased waste aluminium, copper, iron and other metals, processed them and then offered the product for sale. the applicant was registered for the purposes of the value added tax act (the “vat act”) and declared vat on all invoices issued. vat was also declared on all incoming invoices. until the subsequent events, the applicant company had been submitting regular tax returns to the tax authorities, notifying the state of its vat calculations, payments and deductions. on 6 november 2009 a tax assessment was compiled by the iro. that finding was based on earlier audits of those companies, which remained without further specification. relying on the tax assessment conducted earlier, on 20 november 2009 the iro issued two decisions in respect of erroneous calculation of vat, ordering the applicant company to pay an additional 3,827,546.00 macedonian denars (mkd, around 62,000 euros (eur)) in vat. an appeal lodged against those decisions had no suspensive effect. the applicant company lodged an appeal with the minister of finance against the decisions of 9 december 2009. on 22 march 2010 the applicant company received a written reprimand from the iro. the reprimand stipulated the full amount, including interest, to be paid by the applicant company. it amounted to mkd 6,059,124 (around eur 100,000). on 26 may 2011 the ministry of finance again dismissed the appeal of the applicant company, reiterating the findings from the audit. on 22 july 2011 the applicant company lodged another administrative action. on 1 march 2013 the administrative court dismissed the action. specifically, the income of the applicant company was created by companies which failed to meet their legal obligations in relation to the payment of vat ...
in the deliberations the court took into account the claims by the appellant that it was wrongfully deprived of the right to claim vat deductions because the errors found in the tax assessment had pertained to other [companies] ... these claims were rejected by the court ... inter alia taking into account that it is in the interests of every taxpayer to know and be aware of those with whom they engage in business.” according to a document issued by the register of companies, it was removed in accordance with section 552-b of the companies act (закон за трговски друштва), specifically for not having submitted an annual financial statement (завршна сметка) to the authorities for the year 2014. the indictment encompassed the individuals responsible for several, but not all, of the applicant company’s suppliers. the supplier companies as legal entities were not directly indicted.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in riga. was one of the shareholders of krājbanka. at the material time an advertising agency, z., was contracted by both krājbanka and the latvia’s first party to provide certain advertising services. his report was based on information which he had requested from the heads of the marketing and economics departments. on 16 october 2002 the supervisory board ordered an additional external audit. or the bank’s staff members and the advertising companies. the information and conclusions, which the applicant had provided to the journalists, had been based on erroneous findings contained in the applicant’s initial report on the advertising and marketing expenses. between august 2002 and may 2003 nra published numerous articles on various topics of public interest concerning the 2002 parliamentary elections. ’s actions, had been provided in the form of facts susceptible of proof. information published in nra, 3 october 2002 edition, article written by r.p. the transfer was carried out without documentary certification as an advance payment for advertising services ... [nra] has already announced that since the beginning of 2001, krājbanka has transferred [lvl] 522,000 [to finance] its advertising and marketing activities, in respect of which no documentation is available. ... ’s era various procedures were breached and payments were made whose sums currently cannot be precisely determined ... nra has already written that [lvl] 522,000 has been transferred [to finance krājbanka’s] advertising and marketing activities since the beginning of the year 2001, in respect of which no documentation – the relevant contracts, delivery/acceptance deeds, etc. – information published in nra, 22 october 2002 edition, article written by b.l.: “ he also indicated that the applicant had provided false information to nra, which had formed the basis of the above-mentioned nine articles (see paragraph 15 above). nra had published a series of articles about the money spent on the pre-election advertising of the latvia’s first party, linking the source of these funds to krājbanka and its former president, a.l. the nine articles had also contained other information provided by the applicant – that during a.l. by name, surname or his position when giving the information to the journalists. it was the nra journalists who had linked the applicant’s report with the allegations of wrongdoing by a.l. 16657/03, § 84, 12 july 2007) in this regard. the latter, however, still remained obliged to publish the retracted information.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in mersin. on 30 december 2011 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda for that organisation. on the same day, the applicant was brought before the investigating judge who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the nature of the offences, and the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences, and the risk of absconding. on 28 march 2012 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an objection against the decision dated 30 december 2011 ordering the applicant’s detention and requested his release. on 29 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 16 april 2012 the applicant’s lawyer filed a further objection against that decision. on 17 april 2012 the mersin criminal court with general jurisdiction dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 5 september 2012 the applicant was released from detention on remand. on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him of being a member of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda in its favour. according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before an assize court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in podgorica. between 3 december 2002 and 15 september 2003 the daily newspaper dan published several articles about a human trafficking case in montenegro, in which the applicant’s name was mentioned in various contexts. on 22 october 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the publisher of the said newspaper, seeking compensation for non‑pecuniary damage due to violation of his honour and reputation caused by the publishing of untrue information about him. on 4 june 2010, following a remittal, the podgorica first instance court ruled partly in favour of the applicant, ordering the publisher to pay the applicant 8,000 euros (eur) in non-pecuniary damages and to publish the judgment in dan, the daily newspaper in question. on 22 october 2010 the podgorica high court amended this judgment by awarding the applicant eur 4,000 as compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered, which judgment was served on the applicant on 29 november 2010. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 14 january 2011. on 7 april 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 19 may 2011.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in siirt. on 9 january 2009 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and disseminating its propaganda. on 13 january 2009 the applicant was brought before the siirt magistrates’ court, who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences. on 3 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the above decision on the applicant’s detention and requested his release. on 6 august 2009 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with disseminating terrorist propaganda, and aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation. on 10 august 2009, at the end of the preparatory hearing, the diyarbakır assize court decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case-file. on 8 september 2009 the diyarbakır assize court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it. on 1 october 2009, at the end of the first hearing before the diyarbakır assize court, the applicant was released pending trial. on 31 december 2009 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicant of the charges against him. no appeal was filed and the judgment became final on 8 january 2010.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in bern, switzerland. at the time of the events giving rise to the present application, he was the editor‑in-chief of ülkede özgür gündem, a daily newspaper published in turkey. on 6 july 2004 an article written by mr b.g. entitled “analysing the kurdish dynamic correctly” was published in ülkede özgür gündem. stated his views on the role of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (an illegal armed organisation), a number of organisations associated with the pkk in regional and international politics and political developments in turkey. next to the article a photograph of abdullah öcalan shaking hands with a group of armed men was published. 3713) on account of the article published on 6 july 2004. in the indictment, the public prosecutor quoted the following passage from the article:
“... abdullah öcalan, who has contributed to the essential dynamic of the kurdish movement and the hpg[2], the pja[3] and the kongra-gel, organisations which have acted as military, political and ideological leaders and which have represented his leadership,... [must be well understood]”. the public prosecutor stated that a photograph of abdullah öcalan in which he was standing in a rural area holding a weapon had been published in the newspaper, next to the article. the public prosecutor considered as a result that the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation inciting others to violence or other methods of terrorism. subsequently, criminal proceedings were launched against the applicant before the istanbul assize court. during the proceedings the applicant maintained that the article in question had been a news article and had not contained propaganda inciting to violence. on 24 may 2005 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 and sentenced him to six months’ imprisonment and a fine. in his appeal petition, referring to a number of the court’s judgments, the applicant claimed that he had not had the intention of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation and that his criminal conviction had been in breach of articles 6 and 10 of the convention as he had been exercising his right to impart information. he also noted that the first-instance court had failed to examine the article in its entirety. on 16 may 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation returned the case file to the first-instance court and requested that the latter revise its judgment in the light of the recent legislative amendments. 3713, with the same reasoning that it had adopted on 24 may 2005. the court sentenced the applicant to a fine of 1,802 turkish liras (try). on 18 november 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 28 september 2006.
the applicants were born in 1987 and 1985, respectively, and live in the hozat district of tunceli. on 5 april 2007 the applicants attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in hozat. during the concert they chanted certain slogans, such as “revolutionary prisoners are immortal” (“devrimci tutsaklar ölümsüzdür”), “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”). on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court charging the applicants with disseminating propaganda in favour of the “dhkp/c” (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor noted that the first applicant had chanted the slogan “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”) during the concert. as regards the second applicant, the public prosecutor alleged that he had chanted the following slogans during the same concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour”, “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”). during the criminal proceedings against them, the applicants stated that they had attended the concert of 5 april 2007 and had sung along with the musicians but had not chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicants as charged and sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each. in its judgment, the assize court considered it established, on the basis of a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, a report on the video recording, the indictment, the applicants’ defence submissions and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, that the applicants had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. the court considered that the concert in question had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c and that the applicants had chanted slogans that were used by that organisation. the malatya assize court concluded that the applicants had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment. on 13 and 14 september 2011 the applicants were informed that they had to start serving their prison sentences within ten days. according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, upon receipt of the summons to serve the prison sentences, both applicants duly served them.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in ankara. the programme consisted of a debate on the topic of “the cultural structure of the european union and the traditional structure of turkey – comparing identities and modes of behaviour – likely problems and suggested solutions”. on 27 march 2001 the applicant informed the director of the translation course that he had been invited to take part in the above-mentioned programme. on 30 march 2001 the dean of the faculty informed the director of the translation course that it had been decided that the applicant’s participation in the programme in question was not appropriate. the applicant was informed of the dean’s decision the same day. on 31 march 2001 the applicant nevertheless took part in the programme in istanbul. he added that it would have harmed his professional standing and reputation for reliability if he had withdrawn from the programme at short notice when he had already agreed to take part. he also maintained that he had been entitled to take part in the event, citing his academic freedom in that regard. on 26 june 2001 the commission of inquiry published its report. it noted at the outset that the applicant had been authorised to take part in events outside his city of residence on twelve occasions during the 2000/01 academic year, but that his request for authorisation concerning the programme of 31 march 2001 had been refused in view of the opinion of the course director, who considered that the topic of the programme was not directly linked to the applicant’s specialist field. as to the applicant’s participation in the broadcast of 14 april 2001, the commission noted that the dean of the faculty had authorised the applicant to attend an academic gathering to be held from 11 to 13 april 2001 in istanbul, and that this authorisation had not covered 14 april 2001. the commission considered in that regard that not even research professors should take part in programmes of this type without supervision or authorisation, and that universities had to uphold academic ethics. it went on to find that the applicant’s participation in two television programmes in istanbul on 31 march and 14 april 2001, without authorisation from his university, amounted to leaving his city of residence without authorisation, an offence punishable under regulation 8(g) of the disciplinary regulations for managers, lecturers and officials in higher education institutions (“the disciplinary regulations”). on 20 july 2001 the applicant applied to the university vice‑chancellor for reconsideration of that decision and requested that the sanction be lifted. on 8 august 2001 the vice-chancellor decided to lift the sanction of a reduction in salary and to impose a less severe penalty on the applicant, in the form of a reprimand under regulation 16 of the disciplinary regulations. on 25 october 2001 the applicant applied for judicial review of that decision. the court considered that the applicant’s remaining arguments gave no reason to suppose that the decision to impose a sanction had been defective. on 8 august 2002 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. he complained, in particular, that the administrative court’s examination of his claims had been inadequate. on 31 october 2005 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeal and upheld the administrative court’s judgment.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1978 and 1980 respectively. the residence permit stated that it could be revoked at any time with fourteen days’ prior notice to the holder. on 21 february 2004, during his second visit home, he married a sri lankan national. she was granted a temporary residence permit until 16 september 2008. she also needed time to obtain travel documents for their daughter. the second applicant arrived in cyprus on 5 february 2010 and was granted a temporary residence permit until 4 may 2010. following the expiry of his permit, he remained in cyprus on an irregular basis. the third applicant submitted that he had applied for a renewal of his permit. they got out of the car and saw people holding swords and iron rods. according to the first applicant, on the morning of 7 january 2011 six people who had taken part in the clash attacked his residence and threatened to kill him if he went to the police. however, half an hour later, when he went to the police station to report the incident, he was arrested and detained on suspicion of being involved in the clashes. he informed his employer and the latter informed the police about the clash. the police carried out an investigation into the events. they examined and collected evidence found in the area (including the first and third applicants’ cars). the nicosia crime investigation department informed the attorney general that that there was sufficient evidence against all the nine individuals arrested, including the applicants, in relation to the offence of taking part in a fight in a public place contrary to section 89 of the criminal code, but not as regards the remaining offences, which were more serious. the third applicant had also committed the offence of staying in cyprus unlawfully, as his temporary resident permit had expired on 12 february 2009. 105), on the grounds that their conduct had posed a danger to the public order of the republic. consequently, their temporary resident permits had been revoked and deportation and detention orders had been issued against them. the government submitted that the applicants’ case had then been reviewed by the minister of the interior, who had noted their lawyer’s objection, read the administrative file and maintained the decision to deport the applicants. the first and third applicants were deported on 19 january 2011 and the second applicant was deported on 21 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in kilis. on 17 october 1999 the applicant sat an examination in order to become a civil servant. on 9 may 2001 the gaziantep administrative court ordered the stay of execution of tedaş’s decision not to appoint the applicant as a security officer. the court considered that “being a male” was not a requirement for the post. on 23 july 2001 the applicant was offered a contract by the kilis branch of tedaş subject to a probationary period of six months. on an unspecified date the applicant took up her duties. the court held that the requirement of “having completed military service” should be considered to apply only to male candidates and that there had been no restriction on women working as security officers in tedaş. it further noted in that connection that since there had not been a specific requirement to recruit only male candidates for the said post, the fact that the applicant had been rejected solely on account of her sex had been unlawful. on 12 april 2002 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court granted the stay of execution of the judgment of 4 october 2001. on 26 december 2002 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of 4 october 2001. the supreme administrative court therefore found that the decision not to appoint the applicant to the post had been in accordance with the law. on 23 october 2003 the gaziantep administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case by following the reasoning of the supreme administrative court. on 16 november 2017 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court unanimously upheld the decision of 23 october 2003, without replying to the arguments of the applicant. it found, however, that it was unlawful to refuse to appoint r.b. on an unspecified date, the applicant applied for rectification of the decision of 16 november 2007, and maintained the arguments she had submitted during appeal (see paragraph 17 above). she therefore requested the supreme administrative court to rectify its decision of 16 november 2007. he also noted in that connection that turkey had ratified the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and that pursuant to its article 11, the state was bound to take all appropriate measures to ensure, inter alia, the right to the same employment opportunities on a basis of equality of men and women, including the application of the same criteria for selection in matters of employment. on 24 june 2009 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for the rectification of its previous decision, holding that none of the reasons put forth by the applicant for rectification fell within the exhaustive list of permissible grounds for rectification indicated in section 54 (1) of the administrative procedure act (law no. 2577) and that its previous decision was in accordance with law and procedure. therefore the gaziantep administrative court’s decision of 23 october 2003 became final.
the applicants are serving either life sentences or a lengthy period of imprisonment in different prisons in bulgaria. the applicant was sentenced to twenty years imprisonment in november 2011. as it transpires from documents in the file, pursuant to an order of the prison governor referring to section 248(1)(1) of the 2009 execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act (see paragraph 18 below), on 29 july 2011 the applicant was placed in isolation in burgas prison, in a permanently locked cell without the possibility to take part in collective activities. the applicant described, and the government did not comment on, the conditions under which he had been detained there as follows. he was kept in isolation since 29 july 2011, without running water and toilet in his cell. there was poor ventilation and poor natural light in his cell. on an unspecified date before july 2016 the applicant was transferred to varna prison and he has not complained about the conditions there. there has been no running water or toilet in his cell which measured about 6 square metres. he has had to use a bucket to comply with the needs of nature in his cell; he has also been taking his food in the cell. the ventilation was poor, which aggravated the repugnant smell coming out of the sewers situated close to his cell. in the summer the temperatures were very high and in the winter the heating was switched off at around 6 p.m. as a result of which it became very cold in his cell. according to the applicant, while his regime was formally changed from “special” to the lighter “strict” one on 6 june 2011, in reality the restrictions and inadequate conditions in which he has been detained did not change. he has been handcuffed systematically upon leaving his cell. he complained about the “special regime” and inadequate material conditions of detention in which he has been serving his sentence since 24 january 2012 in varna prison. the applicant submitted that he has been serving his sentence in isolation from the surrounding world, namely in a permanently locked cell. thus, their assessments did not involve an analysis of his psychological and physical state, or of his attitude and demonstrated willingness to change, and were not conducted by specially-trained personnel. the supreme court of cassation upheld the whole-life imprisonment sentence in a final judgment of 21 may 2014. there has been no running water or toilet in his cell which measures less than 6 square metres. the hygiene in the cell has been very poor and there have been cockroaches and bed bugs, and the prison administration has done nothing to get rid of them. as there is no table in his cell the applicant has been eating over a newspaper spread over his bed.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in argenteuil. who was 60, set off in the latter’s vehicle after consuming alcoholic beverages. he moved into or was placed in a safe lateral position until the nurses arrived. he was taken to intensive care, where he never regained consciousness. the first autopsy, carried out by dr r. on 11 june 2009 at the request of the public prosecutor of pontoise, found that the superficial skin injuries were unrelated to the cause of death. it thus concluded:
“death from probable anoxia in a multi-factor context. in that opinion the commission began by indicating that it was not in a position to pursue its investigations concerning the allegations that mr ziri and a.k. in view of the charges against mr [ziri] (rebellion), his manifest state of drunkenness (2.4 grams of alcohol per litre of blood), his age (69 years), the fact that he was handcuffed behind his back and was sitting in the back of a police vehicle stationed in the yard of a police station, the commission took the view that he posed no danger, neither for himself nor for the ten officials present around the vehicle. all the officers questioned by the commission indicated that he had been vociferous and insulting, but the senior police officer who met mr [ziri] to notify him of his rights indicated in a report drafted on 9 june at 8.50 p.m. as follows: ‘in response to our questions, he answered only by gurgles. ... it can be seen from all the testimony gathered during the preliminary police investigation and by the commission that mr [ziri] vomited as soon as he entered the police station. constable d., when questioned on 10 june at 4.25 p.m., indicated: ‘we put him on the ground, in a safe lateral position. remained on the floor, face down, in their vomit, handcuffed behind their back: it was between thirty minutes and one hour and fifteen minutes. a fresh notice of the conclusion of the judicial investigation was issued on 2 september 2011 and on 15 october 2012 the investigating judge decided to discontinue the proceedings, on the grounds that “the investigation [had] not established any acts of wilful violence which might have been the direct or indirect cause of mr ali ziri’s death, or any direct or indirect fault attributable to anyone who intentionally caused the death”. it concluded from this that the only times when mr ziri might have been subjected to acts of violence had been during the journey in the police car between the place of arrest and the police station, or on his arrival at the police station. who, turning round on his seat, grasped him under the armpits and held his head down against his knees. the driver, and the audio recording of the messages enable an estimate of three to four minutes to be made for the time during which [a.k.], then ziri, were restrained in that manner, as [v.p.] those allegations having been refuted by the judicial investigation, as indicated above. while the commission expresses the opinion that inhuman and degrading treatment was constituted as a result of the precipitation and violence with which ali ziri was extracted from the vehicle, and also by the fact of leaving the two men, aged 60 and 69, lying on the floor of the police station, handcuffed behind their backs, in their vomit, within view of all the officials for about an hour, it does not follow from this opinion, given the circumstances of the arrival at the police station analysed above, that any of the acts in question could have led to the death of ali ziri. the expert [p.] indicated that a sound initial assessment of his condition had been made and that the aggravation of this condition within less than one hour was exceptional.
the applicant company is a bank with its registered office in vienna. the applicant company purchased and kept shares in deposit, predominantly shares in the if company (hereafter – “if”), for third parties. the applicant company and if were related to each other; the management board partly consisted of the same persons and staff employed by the applicant company were provided to if. the a. company, an investment advisor, functioned as an important distribution partner of the applicant company. following consultations with the a. company, f.m. ordered the applicant company, between 2006 and 2008, to purchase and keep if shares in deposit. the amount invested in exchange for the shares acquired by them. by employees of the a. company could not be attributed to the applicant company. filed an ordinary appeal on points of law (ordentliche revision). it considered that due to the close professional ties, the applicant company had had a significant interest in selling if shares. for that reason, employees of the a. company had been provided with inadequate information material. on 12 august 2013 the applicant company filed an action for nullity (nichtigkeitsklage) under section 529 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 25 below). the supreme court had accepted judge n.’s withdrawal from all these cases. the applicant company further explained that it had only learned about the composition of the panel – and thus the involvement of judge n. in the proceedings at issue – when the supreme court’s judgment had been served on the applicant company. on 4 september 2013 the supreme court (the seventh section) excluded judge n. from taking part in the proceedings concerning the applicant company’s action for nullity. it confirmed that judge n. had purchased shares in if prior to their decrease in value. for this reason judge n., even though he had not considered himself personally biased, had withdrawn from at least two cases concerning if shares (see the supreme court’s decisions of 14 may 2010, 9 nc 13/10a, and of 26 november 2012, 9 nc 38/12f). however, after the litigation funder had terminated the contract with judge n., the latter had decided not to pursue any claims against if and had, furthermore, no longer considered it necessary to withdraw from cases dealing with these shares. the supreme court pointed out that it had recently held, in a case concerning arbitration law, that only in particularly grave cases, where the reason for challenge came close to a reason for exclusion under section 20 of the act on exercise of jurisdiction, could an exception be made (see paragraph 27 below). the fact that judge n. had in the past withdrawn from two comparable cases due to the acquisition of shares in the same company gave rise to doubts as to his impartiality, notwithstanding that he no longer intended to file any civil action in this regard.
the applicants were born in 1942 and 1969 respectively. the first applicant lives in gabrovo and the second applicant lives in varna. mihalev, father of the first applicant and grandfather of the second applicant, owned a machinery factory in gabrovo, which was nationalised in 1947. after the nationalisation the property was allocated for use to a state-owned enterprise, which in 1991 was transformed into a state-owned company named t.. under domestic law, such a transformation entailed the newly-created company becoming, in principle, the owner of the assets which had until then been allocated to it for use and management; some assets allocated to state-owned enterprises or companies could nevertheless be the subject of restitution (see paragraph 15 below). their request was allowed in a decision of the mayor of 28 august 1992, which explicitly referred to the restitution act. in 1994 the first applicant and his brother concluded a rent contract with company t., which undertook to pay rent in exchange of the use of the building. the term of the contract was extended on several occasions, the last of which in 2002. in 1997 the first applicant’s brother transferred his share in the building to his daughter, the second applicant. after the entry into force of the compensation of owners of nationalised real property act (hereinafter “the compensation act”, see paragraph 17 below), in january 1998 the first applicant and his brother applied to receive compensation for moveable properties such as industrial equipment and materials which had been nationalised together with the factory. that decision was upheld in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 17 september 2002, after the first applicant and his brother sought its judicial review, contesting the manner of compensation. eventually, in 2005 they received compensation bonds with a face value of 19,494 bulgarian levs (bgn, the equivalent of 9,970 euros (eur)). company t. was privatised in 2003 and the new management stopped paying rent to the applicants for the factory building, arguing that it had in fact never been subject of restitution. in january 2009 company t. brought proceedings against the applicants, claiming to be the factory building’s owner. in a judgment of 27 october 2009 the gabrovo regional court dismissed the claim. however, on 17 may 2010 the veliko tarnovo court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment and allowed the action against the applicants, finding that the preconditions for restitution had indeed not been met. on the basis of expert evidence and witness testimony, it concluded that after the nationalisation the building had been modified in a manner and to a degree which meant that in 1992 it had not existed in its state prior to 1947. accordingly, the applicants could not rely on restitution and company t. had become the owner of the building on the strength of its transformation from a state-owned enterprise into a company in 1991 (see paragraph 5 above). in a final decision of 30 march 2011 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination the applicants’ appeal on points of law. in june 2011 the applicants applied to the gabrovo regional governor to receive compensation for the factory building under the compensation act. in a decision of 19 july 2011 the governor dismissed their request, as it had not been submitted within the time-limit provided for under that act (see paragraph 17 below).
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in athens. on 21 september 2013 the applicant was arrested in athens for possession of a fake french passport. he was taken to a public prosecutor, who initiated criminal proceedings against him. 538848/1-α/25.9.2013 of the director of the aliens subdivision of attica (υποδιεύθυνση αλλοδαπών αττικής). in those objections, he had included a request for international protection. his appeal against the decision ordering his expulsion was dismissed the next day. in her reasoning, she noted that it was not clear whether the applicant had in fact submitted the first objections, that up to that date he had not submitted any proof that he was syrian, and that he could request asylum before the head of zografou police station. she also noted that the legality of the applicant’s detention was not affected by the conditions of his detention, which in any event were tolerable, taking into account the difficult financial situation of the country and the fact that little time had elapsed since the applicant’s arrest (judgment no. on 18 october 2013 the applicant was transferred to the attica regional asylum service, before which he reiterated his asylum request. he also claimed that he had submitted via his lawyer a request to be informed of the decision by which he had been detained, or to be set free if such a decision did not exist. on 23 october 2013 the applicant filed objections to his detention, asking for judgment no. on 25 october 2013 the applicant’s application was dismissed by the president of the athens administrative court of first instance. on 13 november 2013 his application was dismissed (judgment no. 538848/1-β that had been issued on 28 september 2013. he had been detained in a basement, which had been damp and inadequately ventilated. the food provided had been of very poor quality. he had not had access to outdoor exercise or other recreational activities. there was also an additional space, measuring 7.67 sq. the area was adequately lit, ventilated and heated; in addition, it had fans outside the dormitories to be used during the summer months. food was provided three times a day by an external restaurant.
a list of the applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. at 5.10 a.m. on 19 july 2005 a criminal case was opened against the applicant on suspicion of drugs possession. on 30 june 2008 the district court examined an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decision of 28 april 2008. he became a suspect in a criminal investigation only after the investigator ch. regard being had to the above and on the basis of the inquiry conducted, the investigator k. has rightfully concluded that [the applicant] when present at [the police station] had not been restricted in movement and that he had been able to leave the premises. on 1 november 2006 the omsk regional court (“the regional court”) convicted the applicant of theft, robbery and murder, and sentenced him to twenty years’ imprisonment, running from 23 september 2007, the date of his actual arrest. his request had been refused on 7 july 2005 and the applicant had challenged the refusal before a court. on 10 january 2008 the tsentralnyy district court of orenburg convicted the applicant and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment running from 16 march 2007. on 14 july 2011 the ulyanovsk regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 5 march 2011 the regional court upheld the court order on appeal. on 10 september 2011 the sverdlovskiy district court of krasnoyarsk ordered the applicant’s detention. on 30 november 2010 a record of the applicant’s arrest was drawn up. the district court found that on 26 november 2010 the applicant had been taken to the police station and questioned, along with many others, as a witness. on 30 april 2010 the usinsk district court of the komi republic (“the district court”) convicted the applicant as charged. according to the applicant, the initial arrest record of 28 december 2012 had disappeared from his case file. on 24 january 2013 the tyumen regional court dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant against the detention order, having found that his arrest and detention had been lawful. at about 4 p.m. on 12 november 2013 the applicant was arrested by the federal security service (“the fsb”). he had not been informed about his rights or the reasons for his arrest. he was released at 6 a.m. on 22 september 2014. the applicant was not provided with legal assistance.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in orsk. on 28 may 2005 the applicant, who was walking home after an evening drinking, was stopped on the street by police officers from the patrol and inspection service and driven to the sovetskiy district police station of orsk (советское ровд г. he attempted to run away, but was stopped and assaulted by the police officers, who kicked him in the stomach. the police officers placed him in a cell and did not react when he demanded that they call an ambulance. the applicant was released the next morning. on the evening of 29 may 2005 he was admitted to hospital with internal bleeding. according to forensic medical expert report no. 3634 of 25 july 2005, the applicant had blunt abdominal trauma with a ruptured intestine, which had provoked the development of serofibrinous peritonitis. this injury had been caused by impact with a hard, blunt object, possibly one to two days before the applicant’s hospitalisation, and had caused him “serious health damage”. 5684 of 14 december 2011 contained similar information concerning the applicant’s injuries. the expert considered that the injuries had been caused several hours to several days before the applicant’s hospitalisation. the expert excluded the possibility that they had been caused as a result of him falling over. on 29 may 2005 the orsk police received information about the applicant’s hospitalisation in town hospital no. 2 with blunt abdominal trauma and abrasions on his body. on 11 july 2005 the applicant was granted victim status and questioned. on 14 october 2005 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended under article 208 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure, owing to the inability to identify the individuals to be charged. on 1 march and 18 july 2012 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended again, on the same grounds as before. in 2012 the applicant brought a civil claim against various state authorities, including the russian ministry of finance, seeking 6,000,000 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for his ill‑treatment at the police station and the lack of an effective investigation into his complaint. it established that the applicant had been taken into police custody in good health and that his injuries had been caused at the police station, since the state authorities had failed to provide a plausible explanation for the injuries or any evidence showing that he could have sustained them elsewhere. on 9 october 2012 the orenburg regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in focşani. in march 2005 three romanian journalists, including o.o., together with other journalists, participated in a television show on a national channel. the journalists speculated as to whether such information could have reached terrorists too and demanded an investigation in order to establish whether the leaks had been voluntary. had been included in the investigation file. an appeal lodged by the applicant against the measure was allowed and he was released on 18 february 2006. in the following months, both the applicant and o.s. it was in that context that he had discussed and shown the said documents to e.g. and i.m., he acknowledged that he might have told some of his friends that he had seen secret documents in order to be given more credit as an investigative journalist. on 2 july 2007 the head of the romanian armed forces informed the chief prosecutor of the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice that the documents which formed the object of the investigation and which had been issued by the romanian army, and had been compromised by their publication in the media, had been de-classified. on 15 august 2007 the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice decided that “by receiving (obtaining) from o.s. 585/2002 approving national standards for the protection of classified information, government decision no. the decision further mentioned that the applicant had received the secret military information and had proceeded to verify its nature and importance. he had further shared the information with other people. in addition, the information was outdated and hence was no longer likely to endanger the romanian military structures in afghanistan. on 5 february 2008 the bucharest court of appeal rejected the applicant’s complaint as ill-founded. the accused did not even wish to use his profession in order to bring to the public’s knowledge the leak of information, as he failed to ask the newspaper for which he worked to make public the breach of state secrets in the military (obviously the military secret information could not have been published). the applicant was ordered to pay court fees in the amount of rol 50 (eur 13). the applicant appealed against that judgment. considering that the information in question had not been in the public domain, the court held that journalists coming into possession of such information must submit it to the competent authorities and were allowed by law to share with the public only the failure of the institution concerned to protect its confidentiality.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tauragė region. she has been admitted to psychiatric hospitals multiple times. she was given state‑guaranteed legal aid. on 28 march 2014 the tauragė district prosecutor informed the applicant and her lawyer that, in line with article 209 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 42 below), it was necessary for the applicant to undergo a psychiatric assessment. on 3 april 2014 the tauragė district court ordered a psychiatric assessment of the applicant. the applicant] began to resist by jostling, stiffening her hands, and trying to get away. it is not clear when the applicant was released from the court psychiatric centre and how she returned to her home. according to the applicant, the police officers did not explain to her why she was being seized and did not draw up a record of provisional arrest (see paragraph 61 below). ...
the patient’s mental state during the assessment. [ she was wearing] bright make-up and clothes. the report concluded that the applicant had a chronic mental disorder ‑ schizo-affective disorder with a type of mania (lėtinis psichikos sutrikimas ‑ šizoafektinis sutrikimas, manijos tipas), that because of that disorder she had been incapable of understanding and controlling her actions at the time of the alleged criminal offence, and that those circumstances persisted at the time of the assessment. the treatment was not effective because [later] she was hospitalised again. the applicant’s lawyer argued before the court that since the psychiatric assessment the applicant’s mental health had improved considerably because she was undergoing treatment (see paragraph 24 above). he submitted that it would not be appropriate to order compulsory treatment without examining the effects of that treatment and that it was therefore necessary to conduct a fresh psychiatric assessment. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. she submitted that she had not been informed that a psychiatric assessment had been ordered and had not been provided with a court order to that effect, that a record of provisional arrest had not been drawn up, a lawyer had not been present during the assessment, and she had not been informed about her right to request the removal of experts. on 26 september 2014 the klaipėda regional court held a hearing in which the applicant was absent but her lawyer was present. the court considered that the danger posed by the applicant to society had been proved by the conclusions of the psychiatric assessment (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above) and the psychiatrist heard by the first-instance court (see paragraph 26 above). on 22 may 2015 the rokiškis district court ruled, on the basis of the information provided by the hospital, that her mental health had not sufficiently improved, and extended the hospitalisation; the applicant did not appeal against that decision. however, on 13 april 2017 the klaipėda regional court quashed that decision.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1991 and 1982 respectively. a medical doctor and employee of a state pension office, on suspicion of bribe-taking. documents and money found on that occasion were seized. cash in other currencies had also been seized as well as several items belonging to the second applicant. was handed a copy of the seizure decision of 17 march 2014 in the presence of his lawyer. on 25 march 2014 the second applicant, represented by two lawyers of her choice, lodged a complaint with the caraş-severin county court against the prosecutor’s decision of 17 march 2014. on 6 november 2014 the arad county court found s.t. and all the applicants lodged appeals against the judgment of 6 november 2014. the first two hearings were scheduled for 19 january and 16 february. 176/2010 on integrity in the exercise of functions in public office. the total amount determined by the accountant was eur 281,071. the money had come from the sale of a flat belonging to the third applicant. they also claimed that all their assets had been acquired through the efficient management of the family’s lawful income. it could be inferred that he had established a habit in taking bribes which could have started long before the period that had been investigated. as a result of this criminal conviction, the first-instance court considered that the requirements of article 1121 of the criminal code had been fulfilled and ordered the extended confiscation of money, flats and vehicles, items which had a value exceeding the income of the defendant and his family in the last five years ....
as regards the income of the defendant and his family, the court observes that he submitted an accountant’s report showing the family’s income starting with january 1991, but without mentioning their expenses for the same period. based on the documents submitted to the file, including an evaluation report submitted by the national integrity agency on 10 march 2015, the court concludes that there is a significant difference between the income and the assets accumulated. the above-mentioned report evaluated especially the assets acquired by the defendant’s wife [the first applicant] mostly from her salary. even if this salary had been higher than the defendant’s and even assuming that they also had earnings from real-estate transactions, they could not have accumulated enough money to acquire such a large number of properties and vehicles.” as regards the second applicant, the court held that she was currently a student and there was no proof in the file to show that she had ever had an income. as regards the appeal submitted by the third applicant, the court held that no evidence had been submitted to the file to show that eur 40,400 belonged to her and had been given to s.t.
the applicants were all employees of the ministry of justice’s directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions in serbia. 85/2005, amendments published in the official gazette no. between 1 january 2007 and 14 january 2011, while this unconstitutional norm (neustavna odredba) was in force, the employees of the ministry of justice’s directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions received lower salaries that they had been entitled to. decisions of the courts of first instance were appealed against either by claimants or the defendant. the facts relating to each applicant may be summarised as follows:
(a)  as regards application no. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 25 november 2013 complaining, inter alia, of the existence of inconsistent domestic case-law of serbian courts, in particular the rejection of her own claim and the simultaneous acceptance of identical claims lodged by her colleagues, and asked the constitutional court to find that there had been a breach of the principle of judicial certainty as an integral part of her right to a fair trial. her complaint was rejected on 8 february 2013. this judgment was overturned by the belgrade court of appeal on 15 august 2012. at the relevant time, the fifth applicant was an employee of belgrade special prison hospital. 27288/15 (ms gordana maslovarić – the sixth applicant) 42. her complaint was rejected on 25 december 2012. on 30 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant. on 16 may 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on an unspecified date in 2011, the applicants lodged a joint civil claim with the basic court in požarevac. on an unspecified date in 2011, the applicant lodged a civil claim with the basic court in požarevac. on 24 february 2012 the basic court ruled in his favour. on 23 march 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal as unsubstantiated. on 20 december 2011 he lodged a civil claim with the first basic court in belgrade. the judgment of the first-instance court was upheld by the belgrade court of appeal on 5 june 2013. he amended his appeal following the decision of the supreme court of cassation of 26 september 2013 on 12 june 2014.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in gyál. the court also held that the applicant’s “unclear” financial situation and the severity of the possible punishment demonstrated that there was a risk of his absconding. the court gave no consideration to an application by the applicant’s lawyer for the applicant to be placed under house arrest. he further submitted that he had cooperated with the investigating authorities. alternatively, the applicant requested that he be released and placed under house arrest. on 23 may 2011 the buda central district court extended the applicant’s detention until 26 august 2011. as regards the risk of collusion, the court dismissed an argument by the applicant’s lawyer that the prosecution authorities should have questioned all the witnesses by that stage of the proceedings. that decision was upheld on appeal by the budapest regional court on 1 december 2011. in an appeal, the applicant argued that the investigating authorities had implemented no procedural measures, the proceedings had been unreasonably lengthy, and previously he had always been reachable at his temporary residence. that decision was upheld on appeal on 7 may 2012. it dismissed the applicant’s arguments that no investigative measure had been implemented for a considerable period of time. the second-instance court upheld the decision on 24 august 2012. on 24 october 2012 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended again for a month under article 129 § 2 (b) of the code of criminal procedure. it considered that, irrespective of the seriousness of the charges, it appeared that there was less risk of his absconding, since he was raising two children who were minors and he had no criminal record. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal upheld the first-instance judgment but extended the applicant’s detention by two months. on 21 december 2012 the applicant’s detention was extended; the budapest high court again referred to the fact that, at the time of his arrest, the applicant had been unreachable at his permanent address and had been earning a living from temporary jobs, which, taken together with the severity of the potential punishment, substantiated the risk of his absconding. the decision was upheld on appeal on 10 january 2013. on 22 february 2013 the budapest high court released the applicant from pre-trial detention and placed him on bail under house arrest. on appeal, the budapest court of appeal reversed the first-instance decision and placed the applicant in detention on 28 march 2013. the applicant’s detention was reviewed on 16 july 2014 by the budapest court of appeal.
on 6 august 2003 the cabinet of ministers decided that kryvorizhstal state metallurgical enterprise (hereinafter “kryvorizhstal”) was to be privatised. in particular, companies which he owned or controlled were subjected to various checks by the authorities. the authorities allegedly attempted to nationalise some of those companies, though they were unsuccessful. the applicant company submitted copies of several petitions to the domestic authorities made by third parties with a view to preventing the nationalisation of those companies. on 2 august 2004 the kyiv court of appeal changed the decisions of 8 and 14 june 2004 in part by excluding the provisions concerning their immediate enforcement. on 25 june 2004 consortium industrial group, the losing party in the 2004 bidding competition, instituted proceedings in the kyiv commercial court against the applicant company, the fund, the ministry of industrial policy and the state commission on securities and the stock market, challenging the validity of the authorities’ decisions adopted in connection with the privatisation of kryvorizhstal and the contract of 14 june 2004. it contended that the 2004 bidding competition had been unlawful and unfair. by a procedural ruling of 20 july 2004, the kyiv commercial court found that the office of the prosecutor general had to participate in the proceedings, and ordered it to designate a representative in the proceedings. no copy of that procedural ruling was provided to the court. on 21 march 2005 the deputy prosecutor general lodged with the kyiv commercial court, to which the case had been remitted, a claim in the interests of the state and on behalf of the fund against the applicant company, the ministry of industrial policy, and the state commission on securities and the stock market. he further submitted that the bidders whose offers had been chosen had not satisfied the legislative requirements for participating in that competition. on 15 april 2005 the applicant company requested that the court allow journalists to attend the hearings in the case. on 21 april 2005 a copy of the pecherskyy court’s decision of 21 april 2005 (see paragraph 83 below) was included in the case file and examined by the court at a hearing on the same day. the applicant company appealed against the judgment of 22 april 2005 and the ruling of 28 april 2005. according to the text of the kyiv commercial court of appeal’s decision of 2 june 2005 (see paragraph 56 below), the applicant company contended that the kyiv commercial court had wrongly established the circumstances of the case, and that it had erred in applying the law. we are confident that we have a clear position [in relation to the case], and these enterprises will be returned to the state ...”
in an interview of 14 april 2005 the president stated:
“... if the owners refuse to cooperate voluntarily, we will go down the legal route and will undoubtedly win [the case]. [ its claims before the courts of general jurisdiction contained an additional element – a challenge to the validity of t.’s appointment on 23 july 2004 as the applicant company’s representative in the procedures following the 2004 bidding competition. on 17 february 2005 the court allowed the application. according to the government, on the basis of that decision the joined proceedings before the courts of general jurisdiction were terminated. the applicant company did not contest this.
the first applicant was founded in 1990 and has its seat in podgorica. on 3 march 2016 the cadastral plot of land no. 2090/1036 was further split into two, the smaller part of 44 m2 becoming a cadastral plot of land no. the bigger part kept the number 2090/1036 and measured 11,321 m2. on an unspecified date in 2004 the first applicant’s plan for the shopping centre and the office building was registered in a detailed urbanistic plan (detaljni urbanistički plan, “dup”). 2090/1036 and an adjacent plot of land of 1,557 m2, owned by the municipality, were joined into one urban plot (urbanistička parcela). on 20 january 2006 a new decision to change the dup was issued, revoking the previous two decisions. it entered into force on 23 january 2006. on 21 july 2006 a new dup was issued; it entered into force on 29 july 2006. on 16 may 2013 the dup was changed again, apparently providing for the construction of buildings similar to those initially planned to be built there by the applicants. the payment was returned the next day as it had been made “without cause” (uplaćen bez osnova). by 1 december 2005 the applicant’s request had been refused by the agency at least four times on the grounds that construction was banned pursuant to either the decision to change the dup of 6 june 2005 or the decision of 6 october 2005. on 16 september 2005 the first applicant instituted proceedings before the commercial court (privredni sud) in podgorica against the agency for refusing to calculate the communal charges. on 26 july 2005 the first applicant notified the ministry that the agency was refusing to calculate the charges and asked the ministry to urge that the agency do so. on 18 november 2005 the first applicant instituted an administrative dispute before the administrative court. on 29 december 2005 the administrative court dismissed the first applicant’s claim on the grounds that there was no contract between the first applicant and the agency concerning the communal charges, that the first applicant had failed to submit all the evidence required by the relevant statutory provision in order to obtain a building permit, and it had failed to obtain an adjacent plot of land as required by the urban technical conditions. on 29 august 2014, following the change of the dup in 2013, the first applicant requested a building permit for “central activities building” (za izgradnju objekta centralnih djelatnosti). on 6 december 2006 and 27 june 2007, respectively, the constitutional court rejected the other two motions. on 14 august 2006 the ministry sent a letter to the mayors of all municipalities. 2090/1036, including the one that it had not been allowed to honour all the obligations.
the first and second applicants were born in 1953 and 1954 respectively. the first applicant lives in munich and the second in erding. in the context of those proceedings the applicants contacted the press, providing them with documents connected to the reopening proceedings and other unspecified documents. the first and second applicants were released on probation in august 2007 and january 2008 respectively. the court of appeal observed that the fact that material on the internet was often made permanently available to users and that the information was visibly old did not alter that conclusion. in two leading judgments of 15 december 2009 the federal court of justice upheld the appeals on points of law lodged by the radio station (nos. the courts were called upon to consider the seriousness of the infringement of the right to personality and the offender’s interest in resocialisation; in that regard, account had to be taken of the way in which the person concerned was presented in the report and, in particular, the extent of its dissemination. it would not have been found on the radio station’s internet pages devoted to news items that might be immediately obvious to internet users; the latter would have had to search under the heading “older news items” (altmeldungen), and the transcript would have been marked as such in a clear and visible manner. lastly, the federal court of justice noted that a ban such as that sought by the applicants would have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and freedom of the press: if they were prohibited from making available to internet users transcripts of old radio programmes whose legality had not been challenged, media outlets such as deutschlandradio would no longer be able to fulfil their task of informing the public, a task entrusted to them under constitutional law. (d)  the federal constitutional court ruling 27. it stated that it was not giving reasons for its decisions (nos. ’s mother and who had adopted him when he was twenty-four years old. (b)  the rulings of the regional courts and the court of appeal 30. on 29 july 2008 the hamburg court of appeal upheld the judgments of the regional court on the same grounds as those set out in its other judgments of the same day (see paragraphs 14-16 above). (c)  the judgments of the federal court of justice 35. it reiterated that offenders were not entitled to obtain a blanket ban on viewing a report concerning named offenders or an obligation to erase such reports. on the subject of the impugned photos, the federal court of justice pointed out that it had developed a concept of graduated protection (abgestuftes schutzkonzept) based on sections 22 and 23 of the copyright act (see “domestic law”, paragraph 50 below), which it had clarified following the court’s judgment in von hannover v. germany (no. applying these criteria to the case before it, the federal court of justice noted that the photos showed, firstly, the applicants in the dock in the courtroom of the regional court; secondly, the first applicant accompanied by a prison officer; and, finally, the second applicant with w.s. on 23 june 2010 the federal constitutional court decided not to entertain the constitutional appeals lodged by the applicants, not to grant them legal aid and not to appoint lawyers to represent them. vi zr 114/09 and 115/09 of 22 february 2011, and no.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in the village of tsereteli, marneuli region, georgia. she expressed her readiness to cooperate with the dcs. the authority immediately opened a criminal case into ms k.’s allegations (“the bribery case”). by rulings dated 7 december 2005, the tbilisi city court authorised secret video surveillance of the applicant’s meetings with ms k., as well as the tapping of their telephone conversations. ms k. promised to bring the sum the following day. on 13 december 2005 ms k. brought usd 10,000 to the applicant in cash. the accuracy of these findings was later confirmed by a forensic chemical examination. he stated that he had never had any intention of accepting a bribe but had been helping ms k. out of good will, as he had considered her to be a distant relative. when questioned by the trial court for the first time on 20 april 2006, ms k. stated that she had met the applicant in his office and informed him of her intention to construct a petrol station. as to the sum of usd 10,000, ms k. stated – reiterating the applicant’s version of events – that it had been intended that the money would be paid through the applicant’s offices to a private construction company in relation to the ongoing construction project of a petrol station. ms k. emphasised that she had never been sure that the applicant had intended to retain any part of the above-mentioned sum for his personal benefit. allowing a request lodged by the applicant on 23 june 2006, the trial court admitted to the criminal case file as evidence a recording of a television programme and a newspaper article in which ms k. had publicly acknowledged having been an dcs undercover agent in four other unrelated criminal cases. notably, the dcs had been in possession of information that the governor had been prone to requesting bribes in return for providing various public services. ms k. also stated that the sales agreement in respect of the plot of land had been annulled shortly after the applicant’s arrest, as it had in fact been a fictitious transaction concluded under the dcs’s close supervision. on 7 july 2006 the applicant requested the trial court to summon ms n. as an additional witness so that he could question her in relation to her purported collaboration with the dcs and role in the sequence of the events which had led to the initiation of the criminal proceedings against him (see the preceding paragraph). by a judgment of 17 july 2006, the bolnisi district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to seven years’ imprisonment. as regards the applicant’s statement that the money discovered on his person (usd 10,000) had not been a bribe but a valid advance payment for preparatory works associated with ms k.’s construction project, the district court answered that this was not supported by the totality of the collected evidence; it did not provide any additional explanation in that respect. on 18 october 2006 the examination of the applicant’s appeal by the tbilisi court of appeal began. ms n. was scheduled to appear before the appellate court on 1 december 2006, but failed to do so. on 24 november 2008 the applicant was granted early release from prison under a presidential pardon.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in thessaloniki. in december 2007 the applicant published an article in a local newspaper, chortiatis 570. because they care about any accidents that may happen – not, of course, owing to someone’s choosing to walk or park his or her car there, but owing to the fact that the height of this construction, which accidently (as they claim) juts out of their land, is such that any unsuspecting person runs the risk of getting head injuries when he or she steps out of his or her car ... as they are bailiffs, like spies, they also find out the names of the people who come into the pavlidis area in philyro in order to work, from the number plates of the cars. [ these people] find themselves faced with criminal complaints, because they dare to park where all the others park ...” 7. filed a criminal complaint against the applicant for slanderous defamation via the press. on 24 september 2008 the three-member first-instance criminal court of thessaloniki (τριμελές πλημμελειοδικείο) held a hearing in the case. the applicant argued that, under article 367 of the criminal code, his act had not been wrongful, as what he had written in the published text was true. had used her position as an elected member of the local council in order to plant trees and construct a pavement in front of her house without permission. it sentenced him to a six-month suspended prison sentence (decision no. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 28 may 2009 the three-member thessaloniki court of appeal (τριμελές εφετείο – hereinafter “the court of appeal”) changed the charges from slanderous defamation to insult (εξύβριση), and found the applicant guilty of insult via the press. on 13 july 2010 the court of appeal held a new hearing in the case. it is also apparent that these facts are accompanied by adverse judgments against her and that those facts are connected to her in her capacity as head of the local council, that is to say that her above-mentioned actions had taken place arbitrarily and in abuse of her position at chortiatis municipality. nevertheless, taking into account the way the above-mentioned defamation was expressed, and in the circumstances which were previously detailed, the court concludes that there was an intention to insult, and for this reason the defendant must be punished for this act. the court held that the judgment of the court of appeal had included sufficient reasoning. the decision was finalised (καθαρογραφή) on 24 march 2011. lodged a civil action for damages against the applicant. 697/2011 ordered the applicant to pay 5,000 euros (eur) to e.p. following the applicant’s appeal, the thessaloniki court of appeal ordered the applicant to pay eur 2,500 (judgment no. the judgment became final and the applicant paid to e.p.
the applicant companies have their registered offices respectively in bari (g.i.e.m. on 28 october 1992 the applicant company informed the bari municipal authority that it wished to participate in a site development agreement. on 19 october 1995 the bari municipal authority issued a building permit to sud fondi s.r.l. challenged the temporary restraining measure before the court of cassation. that measure was declared null and void by the regional administrative court the following year. the court of appeal thus acquitted the defendants on the ground that no material element of an offence had been made out (“perché il fatto non sussiste”) and revoked the confiscation measure in respect of all the buildings and land. it acknowledged the material illegality of the site development plans on the ground that the land in question was subject to an absolute ban on building and to a landscape protection measure, both provided for by law. 56/1980 in fact imposed a prohibition on building within the meaning of section 51(f), from which the circumstances of the case allowed no derogation, because the site development plans concerned plots of land that were not situated within the city limits. the court added that, at the time when the site development agreements were adopted, the land in question was included in an implementation plan (piano di attuazione) for the general land-use plan which post-dated the entry into force of regional law no. the applicant company appealed on points of law. and others judgments (merits and just satisfaction, no. on 27 march 1991, under section 13 of regional law no. 45 of 1989, the sardinia region issued its nulla osta approval for building at a minimum distance of 150 metres from the sea, provided that once erected the buildings would actually be used for tourist accommodation. entered into a site development agreement. the agreement stipulated that the development plan was compliant with section 13 of regional law no. in 1997 eighty-eight housing units, less than one third of the total number, had been built. it gave a favourable opinion as to the possibility of selling the buildings, but not in single units and provided the intended use of the properties remained unchanged. which was the owner of the land it had purchased and of sixteen units. 11 of 1992 (see paragraph 52 above) and the new minimum distance from the sea introduced therein, the district court took the view that the municipality of golfo aranci should never have issued the building permits and that the previously issued authorisations could not legitimise the situation. on 15 september 1997 the municipality of reggio di calabria issued the building permit.
the cases concern the 1982 state internal premium loan bonds (облигации государственного внутреннего выигрышного займа 1982 года - “1982 premium bonds”) which are in the applicants’ possession. the applicants submitted lists of serials numbers or photocopies of their bonds. on 30 december 1980 the ussr cabinet of ministers decided to issue bonds of an internal premium loan to finance certain state programmes. the bonds had nominal values of 25, 50 and 100 soviet roubles (sur). in january 1991 the ussr government freed 40% of prices and carried out a monetary reform eliminating the largest banknotes in circulation and restricting the withdrawal of money from bank deposit accounts to sur 500 a month. this led to a two to threefold increase in prices. on 22 march 1991 the ussr president issued decree no. up-1708, ordering a one-time increase to savings instruments, including the 1982 premium bonds, of 40% to offset the price rise. on 26 december 1991 the ussr was dissolved by declaration no. on 19 february 1992 the russian government issued resolution no. to confirm succession of the [russian] government in respect of the obligations of the former ussr vis-à-vis russian federation citizens arising out of the bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan. to give russian federation citizens who are holders of bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan the right to voluntarily exchange their bonds against state securities, including 1992 russian internal premium loan bonds, shares in the savings bank ... and also to credit the proceeds of sale of the bonds into deposit accounts open in the savings bank ... from 1 october 1992 ...” 11. between 1995 and 2000 a series of russian laws and regulations were passed which provided for the conversion of soviet securities, including the 1982 premium bonds, into special russian promissory notes nominated in “promissory roubles” (dor) (for details, see yuriy lobanov v. russia, no. from 2003 to the present day, the application and implementation of those laws and regulations have been continuously suspended, most recently for the period 1 january 2017 to 1 january 2020, by law no. 429‑fz of 19 december 2016 and resolution no. the applicants applied to the russian financial authorities and the courts, seeking the redemption of their bonds. their claims were rejected on procedural and substantive grounds. mr ruzanov’s claim was allowed at first instance but the judgment was later overturned on appeal. on 5 may 2014 mr israfilov obtained a decision from the leninskiy district court in makhachkala, requiring the russian government to convert his bonds into special promissory notes. the legislature was entitled to restrict the rights, including property rights, of some people for the protection of rights and lawful interests of others.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in râmnicu-vâlcea. until december 2009, the applicant had unhindered opportunity to talk to his daughter on the phone and to take her to his home whenever he wished. on each occasion they found no one there, despite prior notification. on 11 april 2013, at the applicant’s request, the bailiff lodged with the brezoi district court an application for penalties against n.e.c., see paragraph 8 above) and found that the mother was responsible for the failure to enforce the visiting schedule. on 21 august 2013, acting on an application lodged by the bailiff under article 188 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 27 below), the brezoi district court fined n.e.c. ron 100 (approximately eur 22 at the relevant time) for obstructing the enforcement proceedings. meanwhile, on 18 august 2014 the bailiff noted that n.e.c. he did not otherwise contest the findings of the bailiff’s report. had sold all her possessions and had not declared any fixed income. be fined for the delays in executing the contact order. on four occasions: on 29 january, 11 march, 23 april, and 17 july 2015. the child protection authority advised as follows:
“in view of the fact that for the past four years your relationship with your daughter has only consisted of a few isolated encounters, we consider that reinitiating the father‑daughter relationship must be done gradually, bearing in mind the child’s wishes, her school programme and her extra-curricular activities. (...) on 4 january 2016 the prosecutor interviewed m.a. it might be that through his actions my father wants to hurt my mother. i no longer want to know him or to have personal relations with him. (...) it is true that my mother has never said bad things about my father, but she has never encouraged me to have personal ties with him either.” refused to see her father because she had been disappointed by the manner in which he had tried to get in touch with her, namely via the authorities, thereby causing upset to her mother. on 18 april 2017, in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant, the prosecutor in chief of the prosecutor’s office upheld the above decision. he tried to visit her home in order to see the child on 6 may, 3 june, 1 july, and 5 august 2016.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in oryol. he is currently serving his sentence in ik-7 in the village of areyskoye, krasnoyarsk region. the applicant, his partner and his mother were living in oryol when the applicant was charged with drug-related crimes. the instruction was valid as of 1 december 2009 until further notice. on 7 december 2009 the sovetskiy district court of oryol convicted the applicant of drug-related crimes and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment in a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility. on 2 february 2010 the oryol regional court upheld the conviction on appeal. acting on the basis of the fsin of russia’s instruction of 2 december 2009, on an unspecified date the oryol fsin decided, in view of the overcrowding in the post‑conviction detention facilities in the oryol region, that the issue of which particular facility the applicant would be transferred to should be resolved by the fsin department for the krasnoyarsk region (“the krasnoyarsk fsin”). the latter allocated the applicant to ik-7, a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility in the village of areyskoye, krasnoyarsk region (about 4,200 km from oryol), to serve his sentence. the applicant has been detained there since 20 april 2010. the applicant has repeatedly asked the penal authorities at different levels to transfer him to a detention facility located closer to oryol so that he could effectively maintain family ties while serving his sentence. they noted as follows:
“[a]s regards maintaining the convict’s social ties, the right to receive visits and parcels as well as the right to correspondence and phone calls should be realised in accordance with the laws on execution of sentences in force and does not depend on the place in which he is serving the sentence.” on 3 august 2012 the zavodskoy district court of oryol dismissed the claims for damages with reference to article 73 § 2 of the ces and ruling no. 1700-o-o of the constitutional court of russia. the court held that the oryol fsin’s decision had been lawful because between december 2009 and february 2010 the penal facilities in the oryol region had been overcrowded. it also noted that the defendant had acted in accordance with the fsin of russia’s instructions. the court did not address the applicant’s argument regarding his difficulties in maintaining family ties because of the distance between his family home and the detention facility. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against the judgment. between july 2011 and october 2013 the applicant’s partner made long-term family visits to ik-7 on six occasions. in 2014 she gave birth to the couple’s daughter. while in ik-7, the applicant received a number of parcels and phone calls from his mother and partner.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1954 respectively and live in bucharest. both applicants were ill-treated and injured on 21 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest. the first applicant suffered injuries that needed eight days of medical care and the second applicant was beaten by militia forces on the same occasion. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened ex officio investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. in the meantime, an ex officio investigation concerning the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty, illegal arrest and abusive investigation of a large number of persons, including the applicants, culminated in the referral to court and subsequent conviction of senior military and public officials by a decision of the supreme court of justice of 10 may 1991, which became final on 14 november 1991. the injured parties, including the applicants, did not participate in that procedure, as the government acknowledged. as regards the offence of abusive conduct, the military prosecutor’s office decided on 9 march 1994 (in respect of the first applicant) and 28 october 1994 (in respect of the second applicant) not to open a separate ex officio investigation on the grounds that the offence of abusive conduct fell under a subsequently enacted amnesty law; that decision was communicated only to the second applicant on 4 october 2001. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury. further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard the applicants who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and homicide as an attempt raised on account of their ill-treatment and injury during the events of december 1989. thus, the first applicant requested on 5 january 2005 and on 4 august 2008 to participate in these proceedings as a civil party and for the investigation of his case to be pursued by the military prosecutor’s office. in the main criminal investigation, the second applicant gave a statement on 4 october 2001 and lodged a civil claim on 17 may 2005, asking for the punishment of those responsible. the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011) and anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others v. romania ([committee] (nos. 43629/13 and 74 others, §§ 10‑11, 7 november 2017). on 14 october 2015, as regards the second applicant, the military prosecutor’s office issued a decision only in respect of the offence of instigation to illegal deprivation of liberty by closing the main criminal investigation on the grounds of res judicata in relation to the supreme court of justice’s decision of 10 may 1991, failing to decide the offence of homicide as an attempt or her injury, as complained of (see paragraph 7 above). no decision was taken in respect of the first applicant. although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it can be seen from the military prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed. thus, on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor’s office ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation regarding the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact. to date, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in gdynia. on 2 january 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed homicide together with other persons. it also referred to the fact that the proceedings in question concerned several alleged accomplices. the court further relied on the likelihood that a severe penalty would be imposed on the applicant. the applicant appealed against all of those decisions. his appeals were dismissed by the gdańsk court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) on 4 may, 1 august and 19 september 2007 respectively. his application was refused on 21 september 2007 by the gdynia district prosecutor. on 27 november 2007 the gdańsk regional court further extended the applicant’s detention until 31 march 2008. on an unspecified date in late 2007 a bill of indictment was lodged with the gdańsk regional court. the applicant was charged with homicide committed together with two other co-accused. on 4 august 2008 the applicant requested the court to release him on health grounds. on 19 august 2008 the trial court refused his request. it relied on the medical certificate issued by a prison doctor, stating that the applicant could be adequately treated in detention. the applicant was convicted as charged and sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment. in particular, on 24 august 2009 the gdańsk regional court extended his detention until 31 december 2009. the court of appeal further considered that the regional court had correctly relied on the severity of the anticipated penalty as the principal ground for the applicant’s continuing detention and on the risk of the obstruction of the proceedings. on 16 march 2010 the gdańsk regional court gave judgment (case no. the applicant was again convicted and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment. he lodged an appeal against that judgment. the applicant was released on the same day.
the applicant was born in 1993 and lives in skopje. at about 1.00 a.m. on 11 february 2012 a physical altercation took place at a night club in skopje involving the applicant, a certain r., and several other young men. as a consequence, r. suffered injuries to his nose and face and was taken to hospital by his friends. in the course of the investigation, on 6 september 2012 the applicant gave an oral statement and proposed that an eyewitness, p. (see paragraph 7 above), be questioned as a witness on his behalf. a traumatology surgeon (специјалист хирург ‑ трауматолог). according to the expert report, the injuries suffered by r. fell to be classified in the domestic law category of “grievous bodily injury” (тешка телесна повреда). the prosecution proposed that r. and two witnesses, j. and k., be questioned. the expert report (see paragraph 10 above) was also adduced as evidence. the applicant lodged an objection against the indictment on 22 november 2012. in his objection he reiterated his request that the eyewitness p. be questioned, as well as two more witnesses, m.k. testify as an eyewitness to the event and b. testify to the fact that the applicant had come under attack by the same group on a previous occasion, which b. had prevented. the objection was dismissed by a panel of skopje court of first instance on 29 november 2012. be questioned as eyewitnesses to the event. at the same hearing, the trial court accepted a request from the defence to examine the official police note of the event (see paragraph 7 above). at the subsequent public hearing, which took place on 19 march 2013, the expert g.a. it was further proposed that another witness, m.r., it was also requested that a neuro-psychiatric specialist prepare an expert opinion in respect of the applicant’s psychological state on the evening of the altercation in order to establish his mental capacity at the time of the events in question. on the same day the trial court delivered a judgment, finding the applicant guilty and sentencing him to a suspended prison sentence of one year. the applicant submitted two appeals, one through a lawyer on 17 april 2013 and another personally on 22 april 2013. on 11 july 2013 the skopje court of appeal (“the appellate court”) held a public hearing.
the first applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sofia. the second applicant was registered in 1992 and has its registered place of business in sofia. at the time of the events in question the first applicant was registered as a sole trader. at that time the main commercial activity of the two applicants was trade in medicaments. in february and march 2006 the first applicant sold medicaments to a company called k., for which she was paid 22,043.23 bulgarian levs (bgn), the equivalent of 11,275 euros (eur), in total. between december 2005 and april 2006 the second applicant also sold medicaments to k., receiving a total of bgn 33,344.05 (the equivalent of eur 17,055) by way of payment. it noted that k. had ceased its payments to e. and other creditors in october 2005, and held that the initial date of the company’s insolvency was therefore 30 october 2005. in january 2007 the trustee prepared the first list of k.’s creditors, which included company e. 11. in may 2007 company e. brought proceedings against the first applicant under section 646(2) of the commerce act, as in force at the time (see paragraph 25 below), seeking to have the payments k. had made to her during the so-called “suspect period” – the period between the initial date of insolvency as declared by the plovdiv regional court and the commencement of the insolvency proceedings (the payments described in paragraph 7 above) − declared null and void and the sum received by her returned to the insolvency estate. that judgment was upheld on 12 march 2008 by the plovdiv court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”). the court of appeal’s judgment was enforceable and, at the request of k.’s trustee, a bailiff opened enforcement proceedings against the first applicant for the sums due to the insolvency estate. in december 2008 the applicant settled that debt, which also included interest and costs and expenses related to the enforcement proceedings. in the judicial proceedings against the first applicant, in a final decision of 21 january 2009 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination an appeal on points of law lodged by her. in april 2007 company e. brought proceedings against the second applicant under section 646(2) of the commerce act, as in force at the time (see paragraph 25 below), seeking to have the payments k. had made to it during the “suspect period” between 30 october 2005 and 17 november 2006 (payments described in paragraph 8 above) declared null and void and the sum received by the applicant returned to the insolvency estate. the action was allowed in a judgment of 23 january 2008 of the regional court. while it acknowledged that the transactions between the second applicant and k. had not damaged the latter’s interests, because k. had received equivalent goods in exchange for its payments to the applicant, the regional court added that the commerce act “did not take account” of such considerations. the second applicant settled that debt, which included interest and costs and expenses related to the enforcement proceedings, in october 2008. in the main judicial proceedings against the second applicant, in a final decision of 29 july 2009 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination an appeal on points of law lodged by it. in the insolvency proceedings against k., the majority of its assets were distributed among its creditors between november 2007 and october 2008. the insolvency proceedings continued until 2014, when company k. was wound up.
the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1970 and live in chișinău. on 29 january 2008 the applicants were involved in a street protest as a result of which they were arrested and detained for six hours and forty‑five minutes. on 18 december 2008 the first applicant was again involved in a street protest, as a result of which he was arrested and detained for approximately four hours and a half. later both applicants were acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful. the facts concerning those protests were described in detail in mătăsaru and saviţchi v. moldova, no. on 29 january 2009 the first applicant organised again a street protest and was arrested again and detained for some six hours. later the applicant was acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful. on 2 november 2010 the court adopted a judgment in the case of mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above), in which it declared inadmissible the applicants’ complaints concerning the alleged breaches of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention on the ground of their failure to exhaust domestic remedies (see mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above, § 75). after that, the applicants brought a civil action under law 1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking compensation in respect of the breach of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention in regard to all three street protests of 2008 and 2009. by a final judgment of 6 february 2013 the supreme court of justice acknowledged the breach of the applicnts’ rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention and awarded them the equivalent of 900 and 270 euros (eur), respectively.
the applicants were born in 1983, 1973, 1983, 1986, 1984 and 1984. according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, at the time of the lodging of the application, they were serving the prison sentences arising out of their criminal convictions which gave rise to the present application. on 21 june 2005 a gathering was held in protest at the alleged unlawful killings of 17 and 18 june 2005 in samsun. on 8 july 2005 one of the applicants, mr ahmet doğan, attended another reading out of a press statement in samsun. the press statement concerned the killings of 17 and 18 june 2005, the arrest of a number of persons subsequent to the reading out of the press statement on 21 june 2005 and the alleged unlawful killing of a detainee by the police. on 21 february 2007 the ankara public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against twenty-three people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the mkp, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. kurtuluş yok tek başına, ya hep beraber ya hiçbirimiz.)”, “ arrests, provocations and coercion cannot discourage us.” (“ we will resist and succeed” (“direne direne kazanacağız.”), “ we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price.” “ 3713, except for mr ahmet doğan, who was sentenced to twenty months’ imprisonment. the court also found it established that all the applicants except for mr olcay bayraktar had chanted the slogan “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price” and that mr ahmet doğan had carried a banner bearing the slogan “ovacık martyrs are immortal”. we will resist and succeed” and “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price.” in its judgment, the ankara assize court referred to article 10 of the convention as well as to the court’s judgment in the case of sürek v. turkey (no. 23168/94, commission’s report of 11 december 1997). the court held that by chanting the above-mentioned slogans the applicants had not exercised their democratic rights but had glorified terror by adopting the style of discourse of terror organisations and that they had not distanced themselves from violence. hence, the applicants had incited terror. the ankara assize court concluded that chanting the slogans in question could not be considered as falling within the scope of the right to freedom of expression. on 8 july 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 31 march 2009 in so far as it concerned the applicants’ conviction. on unspecified dates the applicants served their prison sentences.
the applicant was born in 1977 and was detained at the kırıkkale f‑type prison when the application was lodged. on 1 october 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being member of a terrorist organisation. on 5 october 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the ankara assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the severity of the envisaged penalty. on 15 march 2005 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation. on 31 january 2008 the ankara assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to 15 years’ imprisonment. the court ordered the continuation of his detention. on 6 may 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment. the case was accordingly remitted to the ankara assize court for further examination. on 10 november 2009 the 11th chamber of the ankara assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 10 december 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 10 november 2009. on 21 december 2009 the 12th chamber of the ankara assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 28 august 2012 the ankara assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 8 july 2013 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1957 and 1947 respectively. the first and third applicants live in ankara. the second applicant left turkey subsequent to his criminal conviction giving rise to the present application. on 21 august 2006 the applicants took part in a religious ceremony (mevlüt)[1] on the premises of the altındağ district branch of the party for a democratic society (demokratik toplum partisi – “the dtp”) in ankara, at which they paid tribute to three members of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, who had been killed by the security forces. one of the deceased was the first applicant’s nephew. the second applicant was the head of the ankara branch of the dtp at the relevant time. the third applicant was a member of the dtp and a friend of the first applicant. on 23 november 2007 the ankara public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicants and a number of other persons with dissemination of propaganda in favour of the pkk, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713), on account of their participation in the ceremony of 21 august 2006. according to the indictment, during the ceremony photographs of the deceased and the pkk’s flag were displayed at the venue and a film about the lives of the deceased was shown. in addition, the second applicant, the head of the ankara branch of the dtp, made the following statement:
“our fears and worries continue. in such a context, we would like this mevlüt to be a moment of peace and fraternity.” on 24 september 2008 the ankara assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each. in its judgment, the assize court observed, firstly, that the persons in whose memory the ceremony had been held were members of a terrorist organisation and that they had been killed by the security forces during an operation against that organisation. it also took the view that the choice of venue for the ceremony – the premises of a political party – and the fact that the pkk flag had been spread over the tables and photographs of members of the organisation had been displayed, contributed to raising serious doubts as to the applicants’ submissions that they had taken part in the ceremony in observance of their religious duties. the court considered that the applicants had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda given that they had shared the feelings of mourning and sorrow for the deceased who had been involved in terrorism. it further considered that the venue where the ceremony had been held had turned into a propaganda venue in favour of the pkk. following an appeal lodged by the applicants, their conviction was upheld by a final decision of the court of cassation on 8 march 2010. the first and third applicants served their prison sentences.
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in pravieniškės correctional facility. on 23 february 2010 the applicant was arrested and officially notified that he was suspected of participating in a criminal organisation armed with firearms. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 22 april 2010 the vilnius region district court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. however, the court held that there was no indication that the applicant might try to interfere with the criminal investigation, so it decided to strike it out from the list of grounds on which the applicant had been detained. on 23 february 2011 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand for a further three months. it relied on the same grounds as those given in its previous decisions (see paragraphs 10 and 13 above). on 31 march 2011 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the vilnius regional court of 23 february 2011. moreover, the offences committed by the applicant had not been incidental; rather, they had been committed over a long period of time. on 19 may 2011 the applicant was officially notified that he was suspected of participating in a criminal organisation armed with firearms and of possession of a very large amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances with the intention to distribute them. the applicant appealed against that decision and asked that it be quashed. it added that there were thirty-three co-accused in the criminal case against the applicant and that the case was complex. in addition, it stated that the case file comprised ninety-six volumes of material; the standpoints of the co-accused were not clear because all of the co-accused had stated that they would give their testimony at the end of the proceedings; and the hearings were planned in advance and their schedule was extremely intense. the applicant appealed against that decision and asked for it to be quashed. it relied on the same grounds as those given in its previous decision (see paragraph 28 above). on 21 december 2012 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings that the applicant might abscond, that the criminal case was complex (it had 106 volumes and thirty‑three co-accused), and that it was not possible to achieve the purpose of article 119 of the code of criminal procedure. on 15 february 2013 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand for a further three months. in addition, the court noted that the case filed contained 114 volumes and thirty-two co-accused and that the hearings had been taking place in accordance with the schedule. on 5 september 2013 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings. 24652/04, § 58, 15 september 2011; pawlak v. poland [committee], no.
the applicants were born in 1969, 1977 and 1980, respectively, and are currently absconding from the moldovan authorities. at the time of the events, the applicants were police officers. after that, he was carried by the applicants and put into a car. several persons witnessed p.’s apprehension and beating. p. was never seen alive after that and several years later his body was found in a well. the applicants claimed that they believed p. to be a criminal and intended to take him to the police station for questioning. however, p. managed to escape from their car at a busy road crossing and ran away after having waded across a small river. on 7 february 2011 the applicants were arrested and charged with kidnapping, murder and abuse of their authority as police officers. the same day the centru district court issued a detention order for thirty days. on 9 february 2011 the applicants appealed and argued, inter alia, that the orders for detention lacked reasoning and that the court had relied only on suppositions. the risk of interference with the investigation was determined by the fact that the investigation had just started and the risk of absconding resulted from the fact that the applicants were police officers and thus knew how the investigating authorities operated. the court of appeal did not answer the applicants’ complaint about the alleged lack of access to the materials in the case-file, relied upon by the first instance court to order their detention. on 14 march 2011 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the decision of the centru district court of 5 march 2011 for the same reasons as it had done earlier. on 29 march 2011 the case was committed for trial. the prosecutor cited the same reasons as before: risk of absconding, of interfering with the investigation and of re‑offending. the court also cited the risk of absconding. on 25 may 2011 judge v. had withdrawn from the case because he had previously worked together with the third applicant. on 5 july 2011 judge m. from the rîșcani district court extended the applicants’ detention by ninety days for the same reasons as had been done earlier. on 30 september 2011 the rîșcani district court acquitted the applicants of all charges and released them in the court room. on 12 november 2013 the supreme court of justice upheld that judgment in absentia.
on 6 march 2006 the applicants were taken into police custody on suspicion of aiding and abetting the mlkp (marxist-leninist communist party), an illegal armed organisation. they also claimed that the material found in their homes had not been illegal. on 22 march 2006 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara assize court against the applicants. the applicants were charged with membership of an illegal organisation under article 220 § 7 and article 314 of the criminal code. on 18 may 2006 the ankara assize court held the first hearing in the case. between 18 may 2006 and 17 january 2007 the ankara assize court held nine hearings. metin kürekçi, necla çomak and alihan alhan were sentenced to six years and three months’ imprisonment. 3713) and sentenced to one year and eight months’ imprisonment each. the court found it established, on the basis of the conduct of members of the esp and the sgd and having regard to the documents found in the accused’s homes, that esp and sgd members were carrying out activities in line with the strategies of the mlkp and had been holding legally authorised demonstrations in favour of that organisation on the pretext of exercising their democratic rights. as regards selçuk mart, the court observed that he had attended the demonstration of 19 february 2006. lastly, the court noted that selçuk mart had chanted the slogan “dısa dısa serhildan mlkp kürdistan” (“rise up again and again, mlkp kurdistan”) during the demonstration of 19 february 2006. the assize court also noted that metin kürekçi, alihan alhan and deniz bakır had been taken into police custody in the past on account of their participation in various public meetings. there were also several police records in respect of necla çomak. alihan alhan and deniz bakır had also previously been remanded in custody. metin kürekçi had also had written material regarding the esp and sgd. the court considered that those applicants’ acts represented continuity and diversity, and that they had an organic relationship with the mlkp. it convicted them under articles 220 § 7 and 314 §§ 2 and 3 of the criminal code. they were therefore convicted pursuant to section 7(2) of law no. on various dates between 10 march 2009 and 12 july 2012 all the applicants except necla çomak served the prison sentences imposed on them. 3713, in accordance with provisional section 1 of law no.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is currently in the netherlands. on 20 april 2015 a supplementary request was sent to the moroccan authorities. in support of his claim, the applicant referred to various press articles about the criminal proceedings against him in the netherlands, as well as to several internet news articles written in dutch, moroccan and english about a terrorist cell in salouin ‒ the town where he had been living before going to the netherlands ‒ which had been dismantled by the moroccan authorities in april 2015. had been arrested by the moroccan security service in march or april 2014. 2c)  is it known whether [the applicant] and the persons mentioned under 2b) know each other? the relevant part of the report stated as follows:
“question 1:
the address ... in salouin, region of nador, is [the applicant’s] last known address in morocco. question 4:
[the applicant] is not mentioned by name in the media reports. it was mentioned in the media reports that a moroccan national residing in the netherlands had been arrested in cooperation with the local authorities. was the person behind the radicalisation of his neighbour (the applicant), who was being detained in the netherlands in connection with terrorism. on 14 february 2017 the regional court of the hague, sitting in rotterdam, dismissed the appeal and upheld the impugned decision. in so far as it appears from the documents submitted by [the appellant] that he is known as a terror suspect or has been convicted of facts relating to terrorism, the court considers that this has already been found credible by [the deputy minister]. reference is only made to a case of another person convicted in france, but no documents have been submitted showing that this person has been convicted of the same facts in morocco. on 8 december 2015 the deputy minister carried out a rek-check, which entails [the deputy minister] assuring himself that the person-specific official report has been drawn up with due care and is comprehensible. the deputy minister] has indicated that the use of a trusted local advisor is to ensure that the authorities of the country of origin are not informed of the alien’s stay in the netherlands and of his asylum application, whereas in this case it can be assumed that the moroccan authorities, due to reports in the media there, are already aware [of this circumstance]. in the first place, this mere remark does not comprise a concrete argument as mentioned above. incidentally, [the appellant] has not argued that the state of affairs would be different at a different (later) point in time. according to [the deputy minister], no signals to be taken seriously have been received from them that, upon their return, they had encountered problems, relevant from an asylum-law perspective, from the side of the moroccan authorities. the court concludes that it follows from the person-specific official report of the ministry of foreign affairs that [the appellant] is not being searched for by the moroccan authorities in connection with the criminal investigation concerning the dismantled terror cell or other facts and that [the appellant] has not put forward any concrete arguments for [the court] to doubt the correctness of this information. he also requested a provisional measure (voorlopige voorziening), namely to stay his removal pending the outcome of the further appeal. on 2 march 2017 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the applicant’s removal to morocco had been scheduled for 4 march 2017.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in batman. the applicant responded that he had become aware of that event when demonstrators had started to march to the cemetery where the deceased were buried. when questioned on 6 december 2005, the applicant stated that on 17 august 2005 he had been the head of the dehap branch in batman and that he had not praised the leader of the pkk in his speech. the applicant’s intention had been to express that social fact and he was against any kind of violence. when the public prosecutor reminded him of the violent acts of the pkk, the applicant once again stated that he was against violence regardless of whom it emanated from. he stated that he had not intended to disseminate propaganda in favour of the pkk or to praise a criminal. he also stated that the petition campaign entitled “i accept abdullah öcalan as a political actor” had not been started upon the instructions of the pkk. the applicant contended that he had attended the demonstrations and meetings in question in order to control the crowds and to prevent any possible disturbances. lastly, he claimed that his aim was to contribute to peace and democracy. he submitted that he had attended the demonstration with a view to preventing violence, since he was the head of the dtp at the material time. although he had participated in the public meetings indicated in the indictment, he had not chanted any slogans or carried banners containing illegal expressions. during the second hearing held on 18 july 2006 the public prosecutor submitted his observations on the merits of the case. the public prosecutor contended that the applicant had attended various illegal public meetings between 19 february 2005 and 16 february 2006 and that he had made speeches in which he had praised the pkk and its leader. attendance at the demonstration held on 16 november 2005 during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and abdullah öcalan and carried banners, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 7. attendance at the demonstration held on 30 november 2005 protesting against the attempts to close down roj tv, the alleged solitary confinement of abdullah öcalan and the statement by deniz baykal, the leader of the chp (people’s republican party) regarding the events that had occurred in yüksekova during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of abdullah öcalan, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 8. it is established that the accused attended the public meetings in question and organised them. he attended ten marches and demonstrations held between 19 february 2005 and 16 february 2006, organised by the above-mentioned political parties. in some of those meetings, abdulcelil i̇mret read press statements containing expressions praising abdullah öcalan. he added that he was currently serving his prison sentence. on 16 august 2012 the diyarbakır assize court decided to reduce the applicant’s sentence to five years, two months and fifteen days’ imprisonment.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. the applicants complained that they had been unfairly convicted of drug offences following entrapment by state agents. 48523/15, the applicant also raised other complaints under the provisions of the convention. the applicant was sentenced to ten years and a month of imprisonment. the conviction and sentence were upheld on appeal by the stavropol regional court on 23 january 2014. the deputy prosecutor argued, in particular, that the “operative experiment” in the course of which the applicant had sold drugs on 10 may 2013 had been properly authorised by the acting head of the district police department and had been recorded, and thus there was no need to perform subsequent “operative experiments” in the form of the test purchase on 17 may and 19 june 2013. on 30 june 2015 the presidium of the stavropol regional court accepted the deputy prosecutor’s request for the revision of the final conviction by virtue of article 401 of the russian criminal code, annulled the conviction in respect of the two episodes of drug sale on 17 may and 19 june 2013, declared the applicant guilty of an attempted drug sale on 10 may 2013 and sentenced him to eight years and one month of imprisonment. however, the police officers had not prevented the applicant’s subsequent criminal activities and “had again, on 17 may and 19 june 2013 performed similar operative measures”. the presidium concluded that there was no indication of the police entrapment on 10 may 2013. 433-fz, which entered into force on 1 january 2013, amended the code by introducing a new chapter 47.1 (“cassation procedure”) (“производство в суде кассационной инстанции”). article 401.2 (“right to lodge a cassation appeal”) of the code prescribed a list of persons who were entitled to lodge a cassation appeal against any judicial act. first, such revision was possible only within one year after these judgments or decisions had become final. on 19 december 2014 the state duma adopted federal law no. 518-fz, approved by the council of the federation on 25 december 2014, and signed by the president on 31 december 2014. the provisions of article 401.6 remained in force. the ccrp provides for a possibility to reopen proceedings in a criminal case when a violation of a convention right has been found by this court. the relevant provisions read as follows:
article 413. initiation of [revision] proceedings
 “5. having considered the [above] application, the presidium ... annuls or alters the judicial decisions in a criminal case in line with ... the judgment of the european court of human rights ...”
article 419. 22486/05 and 10 others, 9 february 2016).
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in i̇zmir. in march 2002, the applicant, who was a working as a civil servant, was dismissed due gross misconduct. he applied to the administrative courts to have the annulment of that decision. in the course of the proceedings, on 4 july 2006 law no. 5525, granting amnesty to civil servants who had been subjected to disciplinary proceedings, entered into force. accordingly, in the light of this new amnesty law, on 10 april 2009 the supreme administrative court decided that there was no need to examine the merits of the case. in the meantime, on 30 september 2005 the criminal proceedings initiated against the applicant had ended with the decision of the criminal court, convicting him of abuse of office. following the entry into force of the amnesty law, the applicant applied to the administration and asked to be reinstated. his request was refused on 19 december 2006. the applicant initiated proceedings to have the annulment of that decision. by a decision dated 8 january 2008, the ankara administrative court found in line with the applicant’s claims and decided to annul the decision of the authorities by which they had refused to reinstate the applicant. following appeal, the case was transferred before the supreme administrative court. in the course of the proceedings, the chief public prosecutor at the supreme administrative court filed his written opinion. this opinion included substantial grounds on the merits of the case with a proposal to quash the decision of the first instance court. on 25 may 2009, relying also on the opinion of the chief public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court quashed the decision of 8 january 2008. in particular, the appeal court referred to its previous leading case which had been delivered on 17 october 2008 on a similar case and held that the amnesty law did not put an obligation on the administration to reinstate the applicant. the case was accordingly remitted before the ankara administrative court. on 9 october 2009 the first instance court adhered to the judgment of the appeal court and dismissed the applicant’s case. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 november 2009.
the applicants were born in 1990, 1988 and 1957, respectively and live in chișinău. the first and the second applicants were arrested on 8 and 9 april 2009, as a result of the mass protest which took place in chișinău after the elections of 5 april 2009. they were placed in detention for ten and seven days respectively. later the charges against them were dropped. the third applicant was accused of fraud and placed in detention pending trial between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005, i.e. for nine days. later the charges against him were dropped. the government disputed the fact that the third applicant was detained between 28 july and 3 august 2005. on different dates the applicants brought civil actions under law no. 1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking 115,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 6,765 euros (eur)), mdl 600,000 (the equivalent of eur 36,700) and mdl 80,000 (the equivalent of eur 4800), respectively, in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage. on 11 december 2013, 3 july 2013 and 28 may 2014 respectively, the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicants’ detentions had been unlawful and in breach of article 5 of the convention and awarded them mdl 15,000 (the equivalent of eur 835), mdl 7,000 (the equivalent to eur 428) and mdl 6,000 (the equivalent of eur 317) respectively as compensation for the damage caused. the domestic courts found inter alia that the third applicant had been detained between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005. in addition, the first and the second applicants were part of a group of persons considered to be victims of the events of april 2009 and were awarded by two government decisions mdl 10,000 (the equivalent of eur 625) and mdl 7000 (the equivalent of eur 444), respectively.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kayseri. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant, who was a sergeant in the army had a traffic accident in 2007 and was declared “disabled” (adi malül”). on unspecified date, the applicant requested the general directorate of pension fund (the fund) (“emekli-sandığı”) to modify his retirement statute as service-disabled (“vazife malülü”), but the fund rejected that request. on 9 august 2007 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court seeking the annulment of the fund’s decision. on 22 may 2008 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request. on 11 september 2008 the applicant’s rectification request was rejected. during the proceedings, namely on 12 may 2008 and 29 july 2008 the public prosecutor at the supreme military administrative court filed lengthy written opinions on the case. however these opinions were not communicated to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in diyarbakır. at the time of the events he was a lawyer practising in that city. he did not benefit from the assistance of a lawyer during questioning. on the same day the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal organisation. on an unspecified date the applicant’s lawyers lodged a petition with the trial court. they argued that there was no evidence against the applicant in that all of the witnesses relied on by the prosecution had denied their statements later on. on 3 september 2001, following statements made by a certain m.s.b., the allegations put forward by this latter indictment were joined with the case which was already pending before the state security court. had denied those statements at a later point. on an unspecified date the public prosecutor submitted his written observations to the court. he mentioned, in particular, the names of n.s. who had given statements against the applicant. had not repeated his police statements against the applicant at a later point as alleged by the public prosecutor in his written opinion. had reiterated his submissions in so far as they concerned himself before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, he had not mentioned the applicant after his questioning by the police. the applicant’s lawyers maintained that they did not accept the statements against the applicant. on 18 april 2006 the diyarbakır assize court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. the court relied on certain information obtained from the computer disk, namely the background report on the applicant and reports concerning other members, as well as the statements of n.s. it also refused the applicant’s application to benefit from law no. the applicant appealed against the judgment. despite his requests to that effect and that he had been deprived of the possibility to put his questions to them.
mr vasilevskiy was born in 1973 and lives in blagoveshchensk. mr vasilevskiy stayed in detention for longer that he should have because the sentencing courts did not count the time he had spent in pre-trial detention towards the overall duration of his sentence, in breach of the applicable domestic provisions. in response to mr vasilevskiy’s repeated complaints, on 7 may 2007 the belogorskiy district court in the amur region corrected the error and acknowledged that his sentence had expired on 26 february 2006. mr vasilevskiy was released on 13 june 2007. he sought compensation for 472 days during which he had been wrongfully detained. on 13 december 2013 the blagoveshchensk town court in the amur region awarded him 150,000 russian roubles (rub – 3,320 euros (eur) at the then-applicable exchange rate) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. mr vasilevskiy lodged an appeal, submitting in particular that that sum was substantially lower than that which the court would have awarded in a similar case. on 28 february 2014 the amur regional court dismissed his appeal. as regards the level of compensation, it held that the town court had “had regard to the case-law of the european court but had correctly determined the amount of compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage in the light of the requirements of russian law”. mr bogdanov was born in 1981 and lives in the novgorod region. on 30 march 2007 mr bogdanov was convicted of supplying drugs on four separate occasions in 2006 and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment. on 20 march 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation acknowledged, referring to the court’s case-law under article 6 of the convention, that the police had incited mr bogdanov to commit the last three of the four offences. it declared that part of evidence inadmissible, voided his conviction in that part, reduced his sentence to six years’ imprisonment and ordered his immediate release. by that time, mr bogdanov had spent 119 days in custody over and above the adjusted six-year sentence. he sought to recover damages in respect of his wrongful imprisonment. on 13 march 2014 the valdayskiy district court in the novgorod region awarded him rub 80,000 (eur 1,576). however, on 9 july 2014 the novgorod regional court reduced the award to rub 15,000 (eur 324), referring to the “circumstances in which the criminal proceedings had been instituted” and the “category of offence that mr bogdanov had been charged with”. on 30 september 2014 the regional court rejected a cassation appeal lodged by mr bogdanov.
the applicants were born in 1982 and 1983 respectively and are currently serving sentences in penal facilities in the republic of komi and the murmansk region respectively. throughout this time the applicants remained without legal assistance. their families were unaware of their whereabouts. were both present during their interviews. s. lifted up his shirt and saw marks of beatings on his back (bruises, marks from electric wires and swellings). however, the institution of criminal proceedings was refused. on 25 november 2003, during the course of the trial, the applicants complained to the court that during their unrecorded detention (between 25 and 30 september in respect of the first applicant and between 19 and 24 september in respect of the second applicant) they had been subjected to torture involving electric shocks, gas masks, beatings and threats by officers of orb-2 and forced into making a confession. on the same day the rostov regional court (“the regional court”) requested the prosecutor’s office of the chechen republic to conduct an inquiry into the applicants’ allegations. the decision, in so far as it concerns the applicants, reads as follows:
“[s.] submitted that he had been in charge of the pre-trial investigation of the criminal case [against the applicants] and that operational assistance had been provided by officers of [orb-2], including the chief operational officer, yakh. they were sentenced to twenty‑five years’ imprisonment. the court also relied on statements by prosecution witnesses, including ts., l. and k., and victims, although these did not link the applicants to the crimes they had been charged with. the defence witnesses were all heard during the trial and provided alibis for the applicants. the court, however, excluded their testimony, as they were all either their relatives or friends. on 18 august 2004 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment on appeal and reduced the applicants’ sentences to twenty-three and twenty‑four years’ imprisonment respectively. the case file contains no further information about the outcome of the additional pre-investigation inquiry. it was likely that over time they would be unable to travel and would have no opportunity to visit their son. in may 2006 the fsin refused the second applicant’s request on the grounds that there were no strict-regime penal facilities in the chechen republic and no exceptional circumstances preventing him serving his sentence in the omsk region. on 4 december 2006 the second applicant asked the prosecutor general of russia to transfer him to a penal facility in the chechen republic or a nearby region. on 15 march 2007 the fsin again rejected the second applicant’s request.
the applicants, mr i̇rfan dündar and mr fırat aydınkaya, were born in 1972 and 1979 respectively and live in istanbul. at the material time, the applicants were the legal representatives of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation. on 29 and 30 april 2004 the newspaper ülkede özgür gündem published two interviews with the applicants. the interviews contained the applicants’ statements following meetings with their client, abdullah öcalan, in prison. the first interview was included in two articles in the issue of 29 april 2004 entitled “lawyers convey abdullah öcalan’s opinions concerning developments within the kongra-gel[1]” and “the pain of change”. on 30 april 2004 the public prosecutor at the now defunct istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713), charging the applicants with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel on account of the interview published on 29 april 2004. in the indictment, the applicants were accused of acting on öcalan’s instructions and conveying messages from him about the pkk’s strategy. subsequently, criminal proceedings were launched against the applicants before the istanbul assize court. on 7 may 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a second bill of indictment against the applicants, again charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 on account of the interview published in the 30 april 2004 issue of the newspaper. on 24 august 2004 the istanbul assize court decided to join the two sets of criminal proceedings against the applicants owing to the factual and legal similarities between them. during the proceedings the applicants maintained that they had made the statements with a view to providing information to the press, since the case against abdullah öcalan had attracted media interest, but that they had been misquoted to a certain extent in the newspaper. they stressed that they had not acted with the intention of disseminating propaganda in favour of any illegal organisation. on 18 february 2010 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra‑gel under section 7(2) of law no. it sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each, but decided to suspend pronouncement of their convictions on condition that they did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, in accordance with article 231 of the code of criminal procedure. in its judgment, the istanbul court held that the applicants had overstepped the limits of the lawyer-client relationship and made statements in a manner that induced and promoted the adoption, dissemination and enrootment of abdullah öcalan’s opinions in society. the court further considered that the right to freedom of expression carried with it duties and responsibilities and could be restricted for the purpose of protecting national security and territorial integrity in a democratic society. the istanbul assize court concluded that the reported interviews were aimed at disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel and found the applicants guilty. on 20 september 2010 the applicants’ objection to the assize court’s judgment was dismissed by the same court.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in split. the applicant, her husband and their two sons moved into that flat some time in 1973. he remained living there with his family until 1982, when he moved out. the applicant stated that in may 1982 she had moved out of the flat in šimićeva street and returned to the flat in gajeva street to live there with her elderly mother and to take care of her. the two administrative proceedings were subsequently joined. by a decision of 17 december 1982, the first-instance housing authority dismissed the applicant’s application for an exchange of flats, and ordered her to vacate the flat in gajeva street. by a decision of 1 february 1985 the second-instance administrative authority dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance decision of 10 october 1984. the applicant then brought an action for judicial review in the administrative court which, by a judgment of 6 june 1985, quashed the second-instance decision of 1 february 1985 for incomplete facts and remitted the case for fresh examination. it therefore, by a decision of 6 november 1987, again dismissed the applicant’s application for an exchange of flats and ordered her to vacate the flat in gajeva street. the court held that the issue of whether the flat in šimićeva street had fully satisfied the applicant’s and her family’s housing needs had to be determined by applying relevant military housing standards and not general housing standards, given that the flat in question had been awarded to her husband as a serviceman (see paragraph 7 above). in the resumed administrative proceedings, on 25 may 1992 the applicant withdrew her application for an exchange of flats, stating the passage of time and changed family circumstances as the reasons for her withdrawal. the applicant then, for the third time, brought an action for judicial review in the administrative court, which dismissed it by a judgment of 26 may 1993. in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 6 december 1999 the first-instance housing authority again ordered the applicant to vacate the flat in gajeva street, finding that at the time that she had moved into the flat in šimićeva street the latter flat had satisfied her and her family’s housing needs, having regard to the relevant military housing standards. that authority also reiterated that the subsequent changes in her family situation were irrelevant. the applicant then, on 3 april 2006, lodged a constitutional complaint alleging a violation of her constitutional right to fair procedure. by a decision of 13 july 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. on 16 may 2012 the applicant was evicted. on 9 january 1996 the applicant’s former husband m.m. beforehand, on 27 november 1995 the applicant and her husband concluded an agreement whereby they both agreed that he was the sole holder of the specially protected tenancy of that flat. and his two sons, a wife (that is to say the applicant) was also living in the flat as an unregistered member of the household.
the applicant was born in 1971 and at the time of introduction of the application to the court he was detained in diavata prison. the applicant is serving a life sentence for drug dealing. he was initially placed in diavata prison from 1 october 2014 until 24 november 2015. on that date he was transferred to malandrino prison, from where he was transferred back to diavata prison on 9 may 2016. on 7 august 2016 he had been placed in cell no. gr 2 on the ground floor, which had measured 24 sq. m. overcrowding had exposed him to infectious diseases and he had suffered from passive smoking. apart from the overcrowding, the applicant submitted that the conditions of his detention had been very poor. access to natural light and ventilation had been inadequate. in each ten-person cell there had been five bunk beds, five stools, a small table and five side tables but no lockable space for personal belongings. the mattresses had been old, mouldy and smelly, and sheets and towels had not been provided. in general, detainees had lacked access to cultural, recreational and sports activities. they had had to rely on visits from friends and family in order to obtain any newspapers or magazines, which had intensified their feeling of isolation. the hours that they had been allowed to spend in the corridors had been insufficient, taking into account that they had coincided with the meal times as well as with the times they had been allowed to receive visits or make phone calls. the yard had included a football field but no balls had been provided to the detainees and the yard had not offered any opportunities for spending time creatively. the applicant further complained of the quantity and the quality of the food, claiming that it had been repetitive and lacking any nutritional value. the government, referring to a document provided by the prison authorities, submitted that diavata prison had a capacity of 358 detainees on the basis of allocation of 4 sq. as regards the rest of the applicant’s complaints, the government argued that the prison had had a central heating system, in addition to the electric heating devices that had been provided to each cell. detainees had had access to hot water and had been provided regularly with personal hygiene products. the government submitted the applicant’s medical file in order to prove that the applicant had already suffered from cardiac conditions when his incarceration had started.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in montana. on 20 august 1997 the applicant’s daughter was killed in a traffic accident. several other people were killed or injured as well. criminal proceedings were opened against h.h. and in 1998 he was indicted and brought to court. and his employer jointly liable to pay damages to the civil parties. upon appeal, the regional court’s judgment was quashed on 19 april 2000 by the sofia court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”). on an unspecified date in 2000 or 2001 the prosecution prepared a new indictment against h.h. the regional court accepted for examination a civil claim against h.h. and his employer brought by the applicant, and recognised her as civil party to the proceedings. in a judgment of 18 september 2002 the regional court convicted h.h. of causing the deaths of several people and injuring others, and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment. on 12 march 2003 the court of appeal upheld h.h. that part of the judgment became final on 8 october 2003 when it was upheld by the supreme court of cassation. it reasoned that the regional court had committed serious procedural breaches by, among other things, not taking a decision on the applicant’s claim. the regional court examined the case for a third time, only in relation to the part concerning the civil claims, and on 6 april 2004 gave a judgment. it found that that claim was inadmissible, on the grounds that it had been submitted outside the time-limit provided for in article 61 § 4 of the 1974 code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 22 below). and his employer before the civil courts. the applicant had to bear the adverse consequences of having brought her claim in the context of the criminal proceedings in breach of the rules, and this was so notwithstanding the fact that the claim had been, erroneously, initially accepted for examination by the regional court. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in bielsk podlaski. the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in siedlce prison from 26 january to 19 april 2007 and from 15 july to 15 october 2009. the applicant submitted that, during his detention in siedlce prison, he had been held in cells where the amount of space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m². he also submitted that he had been held in cells with smokers. moreover, he raised the problems of humidity, lack of hygiene and warm water and limited access to make telephone calls. the domestic courts found that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell during his detention in siedlce prison from 15 july to 15 october 2009 (91 days), when he had been assigned to cell no. 616 (15.94 m²) with 5 other prisoners (2.65 m² per person). the courts further found that the toilet areas had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells in compliance with the relevant law. the toilet annex had only cold running water. it was further noted that the cells were adequately equipped. the applicant was held in cells in accordance with his declaration about his tobacco habits. on 13 july 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in an overcrowded cell in siedlce prison. he claimed 43,000 polish zlotys (pln) (10,750 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 30 may 2014 the siedlce district court (sąd rejonowy) dismissed the applicant’s action. it confirmed, however, that the applicant had been detained temporarily in an overcrowded cell, from 15 july to 15 october 2009. on 17 february 2015 the siedlce regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is detained in strzelce opolskie prison. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in mysłowice remand centre from 20 april 2010 to 12 january 2011 and in wojkowice prison from 12 january 2011 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days). the parties’ statements relating to the conditions of the applicant’s detention from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 are to a large extent contradictory. the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in mysłowice remand centre and wojkowice prison, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m². in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells only on 20 april, 18 and 19 may 2009. in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant (see paragraphs 14-16 below), the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days). regarding the conditions of detention in mysłowice remand centre, the domestic court established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate. the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. regarding the conditions of detention in wojkowice prison, as established by the domestic courts, the toilets were separated from the cell’s living area, every prisoner had his own bed, a stool and access to cold running water. the prisoners had basic hygiene products at their disposal. the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. on 24 february 2012 the applicant brought a civil action for the infringement of his personal rights on account of inadequate living conditions in wojkowice prison from november 2005 to july 2006 and from january to march 2007, in mysłowice remand centre from 20 april 2010 to 12 january 2011 and, subsequently, again in wojkowice prison from 12 january 2011 to 9 march 2012. the applicant argued that he had been detained in overcrowded cells, where the space per person had been below the statutory minimum of 3 m². he claimed 80,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 20,000 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 18 december 2012 the katowice regional court dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 the applicant had been detained in cells above the minimum statutory standard. as regards the remainder of the period, the claim was time-barred as lodged outside the three-year period of statutory limitation. on 27 june 2013 the katowice court of appeal overruled the lower court’s judgment and allowed the applicant’s action, finding that from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 he had been detained in overcrowded cells. the court relied in this respect on the applicant’s submissions, holding that the state treasury had in fact acknowledged these by its multiple refusals to provide the first and the second instance courts with an official register of cells in which the applicant had been detained. it also granted the applicant pln 1,000 (eur 250) in compensation, holding that the breach of the statutory minimum standard had not been significant.
the first applicant, ms mariya vladimirovna alekhina, was born in 1988. the third applicant, ms yekaterina stanislavovna samutsevich, was born in 1982. the applicants founded pussy riot in late 2011. a video of the performance was published on the internet. the band had invited journalists and media to the performance to gain publicity. printouts of photographs of the band’s performances and the full lyrics of punk prayer – virgin mary, drive putin away, downloaded from the group’s website, were attached to the complaint. the trial was closely followed by national and international media. the lawyers applied several times to the district court for permission to hold confidential meetings with the applicants. according to the applicants, they were transported in single-person compartments to their custody hearings and in common compartments later on. they were both times found fit for trial. while also taking into account the video-recording of the song punk prayer – virgin mary, drive putin away, the district court rejected the applicants’ arguments that their performance had been politically rather than religiously motivated. the district court based its findings on the testimony of a number of witnesses, including the cathedral employees and churchgoers present during the performance on 21 february 2012 and others who, while not witnesses to the actual performance, had watched the video of punk prayer – virgin mary, drive putin away on the internet or had been present at the applicants’ performance at the epiphany cathedral in yelokhovo (see paragraph 12 above). the witnesses provided a description of the events on 21 february 2012 or of the video and attested to having been insulted by the applicants’ actions. ...
it can be seen from the statements of the victims, witnesses, defendants and the material evidence that pussy riot’s performances are carried out by way of a sudden appearance by the group [in public places] with the band dressed in brightly coloured clothes and wearing balaclavas to cover [their] faces. although the members of pussy riot cite political motives for their actions, arguing that they have a positive attitude to the orthodox religion and that their performance was directed against the uniting of church and state, their words are refuted by their actions, lyrics and articles found [in the course of the investigation]. on 15 march 2013 judge b. of the moscow city court refused to institute supervisory review proceedings. on 10 december 2014 the supreme court instituted supervisory review proceedings upon the above applications. on 26 september 2012 a state duma member, mr s., asked the prosecutor general of the russian federation to study the video of the group’s performance, to stop its dissemination and to ban the websites which had published it. [the third applicant’s] argument that charges related to a criminal offence under article 282 § 2 (c) of the russian criminal code were severed from [the first] criminal case cannot, in the court’s opinion, show that [her] rights and obligations would be influenced by the court’s decision issued in respect of the prosecutor’s request because there is no evidence that [she] took any part in disseminating the materials published on the internet sites identified by the prosecutor [.] [ on the same date the moscow city court left the third applicant’s appeal against the decision of 29 november 2012 without examination.
the applicants, who are police officers, were born in 1967, 1978, 1976, 1979 and 1964 respectively. the first and second applicants live in chișinău and caușeni and the remaining applicants live in bender. during their arrest they managed to call the bender police station. the other two applicants (officers daţco and pohila) went to tiraspol to clarify the reasons for the arrest of their colleagues, but were also arrested upon their arrival. the applicants were placed in the tiraspol remand centre (ivs tiraspol). on 17 june 2006 officers pohila, daţco and vasiliev were released without charge and without any explanation for their arrest. on 18 june 2006 officer mangîr was allegedly beaten up and injected with an unknown substance, which rendered him unconscious for four days. after his release he was admitted for in-patient treatment in the hospital of the ministry of internal affairs of the republic of moldova, where he was diagnosedwith, inter alia, concussion. on 20 june 2006 the tiraspol city court issued a warrant for officer mangîr to be detained for thirty days. on 23 june 2006 the “mrt” authorities released officers mangîr and condrea. the applicants were accused in the “mrt” media of being members of “black squadrons” created for the purpose of kidnapping politicians and other persons causing nuisance to the moldovan authorities. officers pohila, daţco and vasiliev were allegedly beaten on the soles of their feet and threatened with the killing of members of their families, as well as with being transferred to cells occupied by common criminals, where they would be ill-treated or even killed. the applicants described as follows their conditions of detention at the tiraspol remand centre. the cells in which they had been held had been in the basement and had not had access to natural light. in the absence of ventilation and because of overcrowding it had been difficult to breathe. officer condrea submits that he was detained in the same cell as that in which mr ilie ilaşcu had been detained (for more details see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no. during their detention the applicants did not have any daily exercise and were not given access to a shower; they could not receive parcels containing food from their relatives, they did not have bed linen and they were not allowed to be seen by doctors. after the applicants’ release the moldovan authorities initiated two sets of criminal proceedings concerning their unlawful detention and their alleged ill-treatment while in detention. however, several years later the investigation was discontinued. the applicants were also subjected to medical check-ups, which found no traces of violence on their bodies.
the first applicant was born in 1976 and is serving a sentence of imprisonment in the sverdlovsk region. the second applicant was born in 1950 and lives in vladivostok. in july 2012 the first applicant’s employer, the prosecutor’s office of the primorskiy region, provided him with a flat and concluded a tenancy agreement with him. the second applicant was included in the agreement as a member of the first applicant’s family. on the same date he was arrested and on 10 october 2014 he was detained pending investigation. on an unspecified date in 2016 the first applicant was released and placed under house arrest. on 25 november 2014 the first applicant received notice to vacate the flat by 5 december 2014. on 26 november 2014 the first applicant’s brother received notice to vacate the flat (the notice was addressed by the prosecutor’s office to the second applicant). in december 2014 the prosecutor’s office brought eviction claims against the applicants on the grounds that the first applicant no longer worked for the prosecutor’s office and that therefore, he and his family had to vacate the flat. the first applicant contested those claims. in addition, his mother was a retired person and had a first-degree disability. the first applicant was represented by a lawyer, k. the second applicant was not present and was not represented in those proceedings. as at the date of the examination of the eviction claims the first applicant had not applied to the prosecutor general of the russian federation for title to the flat in question to be transferred to him; therefore, the district’s court conclusion as to the absence of any obstacles to the transfer of ownership of the flat in question to the first applicant was in conflict with the circumstances established in the case. the first applicant lodged a cassation appeal against that decision with the presidium of the regional court. on 22 september 2015 the second applicant was evicted from the flat. on 30 september 2015 a judge of the supreme court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination. in june 2015 the first applicant’s brother (mr d. pylayev) initiated court proceedings for the second applicant to be deprived of legal capacity and for him to be appointed as her guardian. in particular, the district court based its decision on an expert report dated 25 january 2016 which had established that she had been suffering from a mental handicap since 2010 and as a result had not been able to understand or control her actions. that judgment entered into force on 14 june 2016. on 29 june 2016 the local public health department appointed the first applicant’s brother as her guardian.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in orenburg. from 8 p.m. to midnight on 30 august 2009, and from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on 31 august 2009, police officers k. and m. subjected the applicant to physical and psychological violence in order to obtain a confession from him about a drug-related crime which they suspected him of having committed. the facts of the ill-treatment on 30 august 2009 were established as follows. officers k. and m. pushed the applicant to the floor and punched and kicked him numerous times in the head, face, chest, arms and legs. k. placed a plastic bag over his head, closing off his access to air, while m. held him down. as regards the ill-treatment on 31 august 2009, officers k. and m. punched the applicant numerous times in the head and threatened to detain him. at 8 p.m. on 31 august 2009 the applicant was formally arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs and placed in a temporary detention facility. on 2 september 2009 the applicant was released after giving an undertaking not to leave his place of residence. on the same day he sought medical help at a traumatology centre (tp no. according to his medical records, he had abrasions on his forearms, a bruise under his right eye, a bruise in the left lumbar region and abrasions on his legs. on 3 september 2009 the applicant made a complaint to the orenburg regional investigative committee regarding his ill‑treatment. on 4 september 2009 he underwent a forensic medical examination ordered by the investigation authority. the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries had resulted from being struck repeatedly with a hard, blunt object with a limited surface area on the day of the alleged incident, and had not caused any “health damage”. subsequent forensic medical expert reports of 4 december 2009 and 21 october 2010 came to similar conclusions. officers k. and m. were convicted under article 286 § 3 (a) of the criminal code and banned from exercising official duties for three years. they were also given a three-year suspended sentence with a three-year probation period, which required them to appear monthly before the service for the execution of sentences and disclose any change of place of work or residence. the following circumstances were taken into account in sentencing the police officers. the fact that officer k. had a child under 14 years old was considered a mitigating circumstance, while the fact that he and m. had committed the crime with a group of other officers was considered an aggravating circumstance. in 2012 the applicant brought a civil claim against the russian ministry of finance, seeking 2,655,936 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for his unlawful detention and ill‑treatment in police custody by k. and m. 16. on 28 june 2012 the leninskiy district court of orenburg allowed the applicant’s claim in part and awarded him rub 20,000.
the applicant was born in 1979 and before his conviction lived in izhevsk. no suspicions were raised against the applicant. 312 at izhevsk police station, a police officer, m., obtained from the applicant a confession to the crime, in accordance with article 142 of the code of criminal procedure of the russian federation. at an unspecified time after midnight he left s.’s flat. on his way home he entered a nearby house to urinate. there he saw a man who made a rude remark about the applicant’s behaviour. they began to fight, in the course of which the applicant hit the man several times on the head with a knife handle, and also punched and kicked him. he was formally assigned the status of a criminal suspect and was informed of all his rights, including the right to remain silent, the right to a lawyer and the right not to incriminate himself. the record contained the applicant’s handwritten note to the effect that he accepted his arrest, as he had committed a murder on 8 february 2005. later on the same day, 23 march 2005, the applicant was provided with a legal-aid lawyer and questioned as a suspect. he consistently repudiated his confession throughout the ensuing proceedings. on 29 march 2005 charges of murder were brought against the applicant. on 22 april 2005 the applicant lodged a complaint with the ustinovskiy district prosecutor’s office of izhevsk, alleging that he had been ill-treated. on 25 july 2005 the criminal case against the applicant was submitted to the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya for trial. on 22 august 2005 the trial against the applicant commenced. the applicant appealed against the conviction. in his statement of appeal he submitted, in particular, that his confession was inadmissible evidence, as it had been obtained under duress and in the absence of a lawyer. on 14 june 2006 the supreme court of russia dismissed the appeal. the supreme court held, in particular, that the law did not require the presence of a lawyer at the moment of giving a confession. on 19 august 2006 the applicant was transferred to the iz-16/2 remand centre of kazan with ankle-joint oedema, skin erosion and fever.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kópavogur. at the material time he was a well-known personality in iceland who for years had published articles, blogs and books and appeared in films, on television and other media, under pseudonyms. some of the applicant’s published views attracted some attention, as well as controversy. these included, inter alia, his views about women and their sexual freedom. in november 2011, an 18-year-old woman reported to the police that the applicant and his girlfriend had raped her. in january 2012 another woman reported to the police that the applicant had committed a sexual offence against her a few years earlier. upon the completion of the police investigation the public prosecutor, on 15 june and 15 november 2012, dismissed the cases in accordance with article 145 of the act on criminal procedures, because the evidence which had been gathered was not sufficient or likely to lead to a conviction. the applicant submitted a complaint to the police about false accusations made against him by the two women. he stated, inter alia, that it was not a priority for him for the girl’s name to be disclosed and that he was not seeking revenge against her. he hoped that the police would see that it was important to have a formal conclusion in the case and that the documents in the case were “screaming” conspiracy. extensive dialogue took place on the site that day. later that day, x posted a comment on the above‑mentioned facebook page which stated, inter alia: “this is also not an attack on a man for saying something wrong, but for raping a teenage girl ... it is permissible to criticise the fact that rapists appear on the cover of publications which are distributed all over town ...”. by letter the following day, x’s lawyer opposed the applicant’s claims and submitted that the impugned statements were not defamatory. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s claim for the imposition on x of a criminal punishment under the penal code, as well as rejecting the claim to have x carry the cost of publishing the main content and reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper. however, when assessing the damage suffered by [the applicant], it has to be taken into account how [the applicant] has built a certain reputation by his conduct in public. additionally, the comments were removed from the website when [the applicant] so requested. lastly, it should be considered that by declaring the comments null and void, as this judgment concludes, [the applicant] has received full judicial satisfaction. furthermore, [the applicant’s] claim to have [x] carry the cost of publishing the main content and the reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper will not be accepted. by judgment of 18 december 2014 the majority of the supreme court (two out of three judges) upheld the district court’s decision to declare the statements null and void. the dissenting judge agreed with the majority to declare the impugned statements null and void.
the applicants were born in 1956, 1952, 1975, and 1980 respectively. the first applicant lives in tivat and the second, third and fourth applicants live in kotor. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 2 march 2010 the real estate administration in tivat (uprava za nekretnine, područna jedinica tivat), acting upon the first applicant’s request, issued a decision allowing the division into two of an adjacent plot of land, a forest in the coastal zone, the registered owner of which at the time was the municipality. on 21 november 2011, after a remittal, the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor ruled against the first and second applicants and the third and fourth applicants’ father. they also submitted that: (a) section 30 of the coastal zone act had never been complied with even though it was indisputable that their predecessor had lawfully owned the land; and (b) the relevant legislation did not prohibit private ownership of land in the coastal zone, and referred to section 4 of the coastal zone act and section 20 of the property act 2009 (see paragraphs 21 and 19 below). they reiterated that the adjacent plot of land, also a forest in the coastal zone, was privately owned, by them, and submitted the decision of the real estate administration of 2 march 2010. it found that the land at issue was indisputably forest in the coastal zone, that it was state property pursuant to section 13 of the state property act and that the claimants therefore could not claim ownership. on 11 october 2012 the supreme court (vrhovni sud) upheld the previous judgments. the court made no explicit reference to the adjacent plot of land and the decision of 2 march 2010. it held as follows:
“as the real estate at issue is in the coastal zone regime – common resource (dobro od opšteg interesa), the lower courts correctly applied the substantive law when they ruled in the said way. that means that the land did not remain in the private property regime, but became state property by the law itself. exceptionally, the right to property over a coastal zone can be acquired only after it entered into force.” they invoked the right to a fair trial and the right to property, and reiterated the importance of legal certainty. on 23 july 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional appeal. 1 the court held that a claim which had been dismissed because the claimants did not meet statutory conditions was not considered a possession that could constitute property rights, and thus there could be no violation of such a right either. this decision was served on 13 october 2014 at the earliest. on 16 december 2014 the third and fourth applicants’ father died, leaving the third and fourth applicants as his heirs. it also found that the conditions under which the coastal zone can be privately owned are not provided for by law (nisu zakonom određeni), “which leaves open numerous questions on practical implementation”. it can also be concluded that the issue of lawfully acquired rights in respect of the coastal zone is not regulated in a precise and clear manner...”, but that it was a fact that there were lawfully acquired property rights over the coastal zone, as indicated by section 30 of the coastal zone act.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in the corradino correctional facility, paola, malta. the applicant is currently serving a term of imprisonment for drug-related offences. the applicant started to serve his prison sentence and on 10 december 2009 he had been placed in division 2 (cell no. 88) of the corradino correctional facility. in particular after 4 december 2011 the applicant had been staying in cell no. in the period during which he had been placed in cell no. in winter the cell was very humid and cold. when, on 26 december 2014, he moved to cell no. furthermore, he claimed to hardly ever having had access to running water. therefore, inmates had to flush their own personal toilet by means of a water bucket which was provided to them. access to water was limited in general, and water available was not potable. the applicant submitted that there were not enough showers, with one of the showers having a broken and cracked tray that could cause injury if one were not careful. he alleged that, for all the inmates in division 2, only one shower was available most of the time, with two showers being available during the summer months. the applicant claimed that the cost to make telephone calls was very high and had been increased on 3 december 2014. he complained that the prison allowance given to detainees was too little. it inevitably also impacted the inmates’ ability to buy bottled water and make telephone calls. the applicant claimed to have suffered health issues and had even been confined to his bed because of illness for some time. the emergency buzzer in the cell never worked and when he had been confined to his bed because of illness and tried to ring it, no one came, since the buzzer did not work. petitions were filed in regard to these conditions. furthermore, some of his fellow inmates had lodged constitutional cases concerning the situation.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in bezhetsk, tver region. then two police officers took him out of the cell and led him to a room. then they brought him back to the ivs cell. they retained a lawyer, r., who came to see the applicant on the same day. on the evening of 11 july 2005 the applicant’s mother saw the applicant appearing in a television programme, vremechko. on 12 july 2005 the applicant was brought before a judge of the ruza district court, who ordered that he be placed in pre-trial detention. after the hearing the escorting guards had taken the applicant to the first floor of the courthouse and subjected him to ill-treatment. on 12 and 13 july 2005 the applicant complained to the moscow regional prosecutor of his alleged ill-treatment by police officers during his apprehension, while in police custody and while in the courthouse. he specified that bruises could have been inflicted with a hard blunt object of an elongated shape, and that the applicant’s injuries were unlikely to have been caused by his falling from his own height. for lack of the elements of a crime in their actions, and against unidentified police officers for lack of evidence of a crime in their actions. when apprehending the applicant, who had resisted arrest. he relied on the statements of officers u., b. and v.p. ( in august 2005 the ruza town prosecutor made a submission (представление) to the head of the ruza district police department, requiring him to conduct an internal inquiry into the applicant’s ill-treatment by unidentified police officers in the ivs and to subject those responsible to disciplinary proceedings. on 30 june 2006 the prosecutor provided him with a copy of a decision issued by an investigator of the ruza town prosecutor’s office dated 23 august 2005 refusing to open criminal proceedings against the police officers. in august 2006 r. lodged an appeal against the decision of 23 august 2005 with the ruza town court. however, they failed to produce a copy of this decision. at the hearing of 14 march 2006, l., who represented the applicant during the trial, requested that the record of the applicant’s interview as a suspect be declared inadmissible and excluded from the body of evidence. the court also noted that the applicant had not objected to the participation of k., the state-appointed lawyer, in the proceedings and had made no remarks in the interview record to the effect that he had rejected his services. the moscow regional court sentenced him to eighteen years’ imprisonment. it stated that the trial court had duly assessed the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, noting that the applicant had never denied the use of force by the police to restrain him during his apprehension.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. these villages are under moldovan control. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8‑42, echr 2012 (extracts)). title to some of the land was subsequently transferred to others through gift or inheritance. are companies which rented land from owners during the relevant period of time. on 15 august 2007 the applicant company posedo-agro s.r.l. both of those companies are solely owned by mr serghei popa. 41569/04 and declared that it maintained that application before the court. the applicants’ main source of income is the working of the land owned or rented by them. as a consequence, all access to their land was blocked and the harvest was lost. some of the agricultural machines belonging to those who tried to work their land were also seized. no work was done on the land in the following two years, which made it difficult to bring it back to its former capacity. such a passage was refused because the authorities considered the land in question to be the property of the “mrt”. a similar protest took place on 11 may 2005. submitted a certificate from the mayor of molovata nouă village dated 11 october 2004, confirming that it rented 450 hectares of land from the villagers there, all of which were situated across the road, between dubăsari and rîbnița (the relevant area). rented land from 782 villagers during the period 2004-2006. a fine (approximately 1,450 united states dollars (“usd”)) equal to the market price of the barley was imposed and additional costs had to be covered, otherwise the truck carrying the barley, which had also been temporarily seized on 30 july 2004, would be confiscated. a similar decision was taken on 16 august 2004, by which the applicant company lost 6.1 tonnes of apples. according to a certificate dated 12 october 2004, the applicant company rented 1,377 hectares of land from 820 people in cocieri, of which 1,256 hectares were situated in the area concerned by the present application. on 4 august 2004 the applicant company complained to the moldovan government, the osce and the dubăsari prosecutor’s office (belonging to the “mrt”) about the fine and seizure, stating that it rented 1,256 hectares of villagers’ land situated in the relevant area and that despite having temporary registration with the “mrt customs office” it was not allowed to take the harvest to storage.
the first applicant is the mother of the second applicant and of ms anna politkovskaya, who was born in 1958 and died in 2006. at an early stage of the investigation investigators inspected the crime scene, collected footage from surveillance cameras located in the vicinity, and examined logs of telephone connections made in the area around the time of the killing. later, the third applicant received such status as well. they also questioned ms politkovskaya’s colleagues, friends and family as witnesses. on 29 august 2007 a press officer of the moscow city court (“the city court”) disclosed to the public a list of ten people detained in connection with anna politkovskaya’s assassination. later, the investigation established that fibres found in their car were identical to those left on the murder weapon. were formally charged with contract killing in conspiracy with others. in june 2008 the investigators prepared a case against s.kh., on 20 february 2009 the circuit court acquitted s.kh., on 3 september 2009 the supreme court granted the third and fourth applicants’ application, and the case was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for further investigation. on unspecified dates the charges against p.r. on 26 august 2011 the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”) ordered d.p. had expressed his intention to kill the journalist and had said that d.p. on 29 august 2012 the criminal case against d.p. was severed and a separate investigation was created; the applicants disagreed with that decision. was transferred to the city court for trial. on 9 june 2014 the city court delivered a judgment. regarded as the hitman – to life imprisonment. was sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment. on 26 june 2015, in the appeal proceedings, the supreme court of russia found that the guilty verdict was based on a thorough examination of the evidence.
the applicants were born in 1964 and 1973 respectively and are detained in corradino correctional facility, paola, malta. he is serving a ten‑year prison sentence following a judgment of 21 march 2012. since 10 january 2013 he has been detained in division 3, cell no. the latter is clogged with dirt and debris and his cell window is positioned too high up, meaning that he therefore has to climb onto the sink to open or close it. he stated that the cell does not have adequate ventilation and it is subject to high temperatures in the summer and low temperatures in the winter. he alleged that he had not been provided with a heater during the winter and that his requests to this effect had been turned down. the prison authorities had provided him only with one blanket, other blankets and clothes having been received from ngos. he also claimed that he has to use a bucket to flush his toilet. as the building housing the division is more than 150 years old, the ceiling releases dust, which is allegedly harmful to the first applicant’s lungs. the first applicant submitted that he does not have access to drinking water, since the tap water is rusty and filthy, and he therefore has to purchase drinking water. however, his job in prison pays only 0.60 euro (eur) cents per day and in the summer he drinks three six packs of water a week, at considerable cost. the government submitted that the first applicant received eur 34.77 every four weeks in so‑called “gratuity” remuneration and from the “work and pay” scheme, with which he had been involved since 2015. the second applicant, who is a national of the dominican republic, has been detained in corradino correctional facility since 24 november 2009. he is serving a nine-year prison sentence following a judgment of 15 october 2012. 155 (with the exception of one day ‑ 3 october 2015 ‑ spent in division 6). they noted that the second applicant had never asked for materials to paint his cell. the second applicant also submitted that because of the humidity in his cell and the fact that he does not have a heater, he frequently catches the flu during the winter months. the government submitted that the cell was humid because the second applicant had blocked his vent with a towel and did not undertake any maintenance of his cell. natural light came in through three skylights and artificial light was provided through bell lamps of 400w each. the second applicant also claimed that the spiral staircase is not appropriate in the case of an emergency, since a stretcher could not be carried down it and it would not be possible to evacuate people two at a time.
the applicants were born in 1937, 1934 and 1941 respectively. the first and third applicants live in sofia. the applicants’ fathers owned printing houses in sofia, which were nationalised by the communist authorities in 1949 and 1950. after that their assets were taken over by a state-owned printing house. the company is managed by the minister of education. among the tasks of the company is the printing of school textbooks. in march 1998 the first and second applicants and their mother applied under the compensation act to receive compensation for the nationalised printing house. in a decision of 14 june 1999 the minister of education allowed their request, stating that the exact number of shares to be awarded would be determined after a valuation of the assets of the former printing house. despite that, in another decision dated 3 july 2000 the minister rejected the request for compensation. after that an expert prepared a valuation of the nationalised property, which was confirmed by the minister of education on 5 june 2003. the domestic court held in particular that section 11 of the concluding provisions mentioned above could not justify such a modification. in a letter dated 7 april 2006 the council of ministers (government) informed them that the ministry of education was seeking “a lawful solution”, which “would not infringe upon the public interest and would not be in breach of the [privatisation act]”. their request was allowed by the minister of education in a decision of 22 december 1998. despite the above developments, in another decision dated 26 august 2003 the minister stated that the third applicant, her mother and her sister were to receive compensation bonds instead of shares. that decision was quashed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment of 31 march 2004, on the ground that it impermissibly modified the previous decisions concerning the compensation to be provided, which had become final. the third applicant’s mother and sister passed away in 2006 and 2004 respectively, leaving the third applicant her father’s only surviving heir. in 2007 the ministry of education requested the privatisation agency to authorise the transfer to private parties of shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead. the authorisation, related to the claims of all applicants, was given on 23 april 2008. the ministry took no further measures to complete the compensation procedures. in a judgment of 27 january 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed their application, noting that they were not shareholders in the company, since the compensation procedures had not been completed with the actual transfer of shares to them in accordance with the law.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in skopje. at the time of the events he was vice-president of the sdsm opposition party and a member of parliament. had paid taxes on his property, which had been assessed as being worth several million euros (eur). the applicant did not submit any comments in reply. and was provided with audio-and video-recordings of the programme on a1. submitted half a year ago, in which he specified that he possessed shares valued at eur 300,000. replied to the allegations by sdsm by saying that the money in question was linked to a lawful business which he had abroad’ and the tape continues with the plaintiff’s statement ...” 12. on 3 november 2009 the trial court, sitting as a single-judge (judge v.m.), the defence cannot rely on article 176 of the criminal code and (claim) that the (impugned) expression should have been examined in the context of the position he held, namely vice-president of an opposition political party. in that connection, it referred to article 172 of the criminal code, which punished the dissemination of untrue information that could affect the reputation and dignity of a third party. by a final judgment of 9 april 2014 the applicant was ordered to pay 550,000 macedonian denars (mkd) plus interest in respect of non-pecuniary damage and mkd 46,180 for the trial costs incurred by mr s.m. it was broadcast on local television news. as described in the trial court’s judgment (see below), the applicant stated that:
“the attractive location behind the ‘ramstor’ shopping mall planned for the construction of a hotel was granted to a company supported (зад која стои) by o. holding ... after the revelation of this megascandal, the biggest dilemma is whether the academy award for the most corrupt politician should be given to the prime minister or his cousins? he had also not signed the sale contract with the company that had been chosen. the trial court scheduled seventeen hearings. relying on the latter’s testimony, the court held that the applicant’s allegations had concerned mr s.m., the relevant parts of the trial court’s judgment read as follows:
“... the court considers ... that [the applicant’s] [statement described in paragraph 20 above] could have a considerable effect on the complainant’s reputation and dignity ... since he is the holder of a public office and (such) statements are disseminated quickly and aggressively in public. accordingly, [the applicant] was required to prove that his statement was true, which is not the case ... the contents of the statement, the time, place and way in which it was given imply that it was serious and that it could objectively create a perception in the minds of third parties about certain facts. who did not claim compensation for damage in respect of this criminal conviction for defamation. the freedom of political debate is not of an absolute nature ... the court notes that the impugned statement concerns the public sale of state-owned building land ... and should be considered in the context of a debate concerning an issue of public interest, which in particular was of prime political interest ...
the court considers that the veracity of the statement ... was of primary importance for the courts.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in riga. on 17 october 2000 the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu komisija) granted the applicant a disability status of category 3 (the least severe level of disability) on the grounds of a visual impairment. on 16 october 2001 following an examination the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work declined the applicant’s request to prolong her disability status. on 9 november 2001 this decision was upheld by the state medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu valsts komisija, hereinafter ‑ the commission) and on 5 december 2001 by an extended composition of that commission. the applicant challenged the decision of the commission before a court. on 22 april 2002 the riga city zemgale district court declined the claim. on 30 july 2004 the regional administrative court annulled the decision of 5 december 2001 due to lack of reasoning and ordered the commission to carry out a new examination. on 30 november 2004 this judgment was upheld by the administrative cases division of the supreme court. on 11 january 2005, following a new examination by an extended composition, the commission again refused to grant the applicant the status of a disabled person. on 9 january 2006 the applicant brought a claim to the administrative district court challenging the commission’s decision and requesting to be granted the status of a disabled person from 16 october 2001. on 29 september 2006 the administrative district court declined the applicant’s claim. this judgment was upheld by the regional administrative court. the administrative cases division of the supreme court two times quashed the judgments of the regional administrative court for its failure to follow the interpretation of the domestic law given by the supreme court. on 24 november 2010 the regional administrative court declined the applicant’s claim, and on 14 march 2011 the administrative cases division of the supreme court refused to institute cassation proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in batumi. fell off a crane while fixing electric cables. his injuries included a fractured skull and brain damage. on 5 march 2004 he was transferred to a general medical ward as there had been an improvement in his condition. had been admitted with traumatic injuries. as ... no autopsy was performed upon [g.b. he added however that this might not have made any difference to the fatal outcome. ’s death without an exhumation of his body. ’s treatment (მკურნალი ექიმი) and reprimanded two intensive care specialists and a surgeon. several witnesses were questioned, including the then director and deputy director of the hospital, who had considered the family’s resistance as grounds for not carrying out an autopsy upon g.b. on 21 september 2006 the investigator obtained a second exhumation order from the court in order to determine the exact cause of g.b. the applicant once again refused to allow implementation. they reached the following conclusions (“the second report”):
“the institution is carrying out medical practice without a licence in the following fields: cardiology, plastic and reconstructive surgery, proctology, urology, paediatrics, epidemiology, clinical transfusion and expert assessments of temporary incapacitation. out of the 29 doctors who took part in patient g.b. the doctor ... working as a transfusion specialist is a certified paediatrician ...
... [i]t is evident that the surgery, the sole purpose of which was to definitively determine the cause of bleeding and stop it, was carried out too late. the appellate court continued to note that:
“in addition to establishing that harm was caused to a person’s health as a result of the medical negligence of the [hospital] staff, it can also be established from the case files that [the hospital] was carrying out unlicensed activities in a number of medical fields and at the same time some of the medical staff did not have authorisation to practise medicine independently, in violation of the requirements of the [relevant legislation]...” 34. as regards who should be held responsible for the hospital and its doctors operating without the necessary licences, it was noted that:
“the ministry of health of the aar cannot be held responsible in the present case ... for [the hospital] operating in certain medical fields without the requisite licences considering that, in accordance with section 54 of the health care act, the issuance of such licences is [the exclusive competence] of the ministry of health of georgia. on 14 may 2008 the supreme court adopted a decision without holding an oral hearing. of the medical staff invited to treat ... mr g.b. ... those] appointed as junior doctors ... the neurosurgeon (currently dismissed) and ... the intensive care specialist were practising medicine independently.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in warsaw. on 29 november 2012 the warsaw-wola district court (sąd rejonowy) ordered the applicant’s detention on remand on suspicion of drug dealing, as well as facilitating and benefiting from prostitution, committed in an organised criminal group. it stressed that the sole fact that the applicant faced a severe penalty and had been suspected of committing offences in an organised criminal group justified a suspicion that, if released, the applicant would try to obstruct the proceedings by influencing witnesses or his accomplices. in these decisions, the court repeated the reasons originally relied on. in its decision of 21 february 2013, the warsaw regional court further noted that the case against the applicant was complex, and indicated a number of steps that still had to be taken in order to terminate the investigation. the applicant appealed against all these decisions, without success. on 21 november 2013 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) ordered a further extension of the applicant’s detention on remand. it relied on the same grounds as previously given for his detention. the bill of indictment against the applicant was lodged with the warsaw regional court on 30 december 2013. the bill of indictment concerned altogether seventeen accused, charged with 150 offences. later, the number of accused in the proceedings dropped to fourteen. the prosecutor requested that the court hear over 90 witnesses, including five “crown witnesses”. the domestic courts continued to rely on the same grounds for detention as in their previous decisions. the appeals by the applicant against decisions extending his detention and all his applications for release were unsuccessful. on 9 may 2016 the trial court ordered the applicant’s release on bail for 80,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 20,000 euros (eur)). on 25 may 2016 the warsaw court of appeal upheld the decision. on 30 may 2016 the warsaw regional court again ordered the applicant’s release on bail of pln 80,000. it also imposed a prohibition on leaving the country. the applicant paid the security required by the court and was released on 31 may 2016. the case against the applicant and his co-accused appears to be pending before the warsaw regional court (no.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in yerevan. in particular, they assaulted her, grabbed her hands, insulted her and forcibly took a document concerning her which she had taken in to them in order to write down her objections. the two of them had grabbed her hands, causing her serious pain, and forcibly taken away the papers. she had suffered injuries, health problems and serious distress. asking him to come to see him with the other employees. made a statement and similarly denied using violence against the applicant. conclusion: [the applicant’s] bodily injuries in the form of ecchymoses [around] the right and left upper arms and the left forearm have been inflicted with blunt, hard objects possibly in the period mentioned; [the injuries] taken separately as well as all together do not contain elements of [short-term] damage to health.” on 25 january 2012 the investigator took another additional statement from the applicant. i also wish to add that because of their actions i have had health problems and as a result have been on sick leave from 13 to 27 january ...” 18. he had never harassed her or grabbed her hands and had remained seated in his chair until she had left. and was calling for them to be prosecuted. for lack of corpus delicti in their actions. it further stated that the evidence collected had revealed that on 10 january 2012 first h.a. who had gone to the latter’s office, had tried to calm the applicant down, as she had been insulting h.a. ’s negligence; it had not been established that they had intentionally caused her injuries. on 13 march 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the prosecutor against the investigator’s decision. she argued, inter alia, that contrary to what was stated in the decision she had described in detail how she had been treated. she further complained that, as a result of deliberate violence on the part of h.a. if criminal proceedings were instituted, they would be questioned as witnesses and warned about criminal liability for making false statements. in these circumstances, her contradictory statements did not correspond to the evidence gathered but that did not create grounds for prosecuting her for false accusations.
the applicant organisation is a public notary professional association and has its main office in bucharest. they informed a receptionist that they were clients. the police officers also seized a number of documents, including the sale contract and original documents concerning the aforementioned private parties. moreover, the police officers seized the fees and taxes that had been paid by the private parties for the services rendered by the applicant organisation. furthermore, the police officers took statements from the applicant organisation’s employees. a large number of police officers had been mobilised for an operation aimed at catching the suspects red‑handed. the two police officers had entered the premises of the applicant organisation, disclosed their identity and the fact that they were police officers, and proceeded to seize the relevant documents and fees. consequently, the police officers had acted in their professional capacity in order to fulfil their professional duties and with the aim of investigating cases they had been working on. moreover, the elements of the offence of abuse of office against private interests had not been met. to turn over all the documents and sums of money connected to the sale. with regard to the lawfulness of the police officers’ presence on the applicant organisation’s premises, the court held that the said premises did not constitute a home, room, annex or closed area attached to a home or a room and that entering such premises had therefore not constituted the offence of unlawful home intrusion. they could have protected the victims’ property by taking property preservation measures only after establishing that an offence had been committed. the court furthermore held that the police officers who had asked the employees of the applicant organisation to give statements had not breached the relevant domestic rules concerning professional secrecy because the information provided by the said employees with regard to the commission of an offence had not amounted to them being formally heard as witnesses in the case. the court concluded that the applicant organisation was mainly unhappy with the fact that the sale contract and the public notaries’ professional fees seized by the police officers had been returned to the alleged victims of the offence and not to the organisation. by a final judgment of 25 january 2010 the high court of cassation and justice dismissed the applicant organisation’s appeal on points of fact and law and upheld the decisions of the prosecutor’s office and the judgment of the first-instance court. according to the relevant criminal procedure rules, police officers were entitled and had a duty to carry out operations seeking to identify and investigate unlawful acts and to gather and seize relevant evidence. on 8 july 2010 the bucharest prosecutor’s office informed the applicant organisation that the criminal case in question had been referred to the domestic courts which had the authority to examine its requests. moreover, the applicant organisation had not proved that it had suffered non-pecuniary damage. the applicant organisation appealed against the judgment. on 17 november 2011 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant organisation’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mykolayiv. on 21 march 2007 their daughter s. was born. on 15 april 2009 the leninsky district court of mykolayiv, in response to an application from o., pronounced the couple’s divorce. on 4 june 2009, in response to a claim brought by the applicant against o. concerning hindrance of access to the child, the leninsky district court of mykolayiv granted the applicant rights of access to his daughter. in the autumn of 2009 o. and s. moved to selydove in the donetsk region. the distance between mykolayiv and selydove is about 600 kilometres by road. on 27 january 2010, when o. and s. arrived for a short stay in mykolayiv, the applicant attempted to see his daughter, but o. refused to let him take the child overnight. on 28 march 2012 the applicant submitted to the selydove state bailiff’s service a writ of execution of judgment dated 4 june 2009. on 29 march 2012 the state bailiff opened the enforcement proceedings. the courts upheld the bailiffs’ decision, finding that it had been taken in accordance with the law. the final decision was taken by the hscu, which on 3 august 2012 dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. the courts dismissed the claim for lack of proof. the applicant challenged that decision in the court. however, on 8 december 2015 the donetsk regional court of appeal partly allowed the applicant’s claim. it found that o. had prevented the applicant from properly exercising his access rights and ruled that the applicant should be given the opportunity of spending one month with his daughter during the summer and one week during the winter school holidays every year until she attained the age of majority. on 26 may 2016 the selydove department of state bailiffs’ service opened enforcement proceedings in relation to the judgment of 8 december 2015. in spring 2014 illegal armed groups associated with two self‑proclaimed entities known as the “donetsk people’s republic” and the “luhansk people’s republic” started operating in the donetsk and luhansk regions, seizing control of certain parts of those regions by force. in august 2014 the applicant lodged a claim with the selydove court seeking a declaration that o. was unlawfully failing to cooperate in executing the judgment of 4 june 2009 granting the applicant access rights. he also asked the court to determine that the child’s place of residence should be his home in mykolayiv. it stated that the selydove town court had correctly established the relevant facts and had properly applied the law.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in naberezhnyye chelny. on 1 november 2004 he was arrested on suspicion of having extracted a bribe. on 10 november 2005 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic convicted the applicant and sentenced him to imprisonment. he stayed under the obligation not to leave his place of residence in naberezhnyye chelny until the conviction became final. he could leave his place of residence only upon the summons from the investigator or the court. several parties to the criminal proceedings, including the applicant, appealed against the conviction. the case was forwarded to the russian supreme court in moscow, 1,000 km away from naberezhnyye chelny. the applicant never received any summons to the appeal hearing due to the supreme court’s mistake in the postal code. neither did he receive copies of the statements of appeal filed by the prosecutor, by the co-accused, g., and the latter’s lawyer. on 28 february 2006 the conviction was upheld by the russian supreme court. the prosecutor and g.’s lawyer attended the appeal hearing. neither the applicant nor his lawyer was present. in 2011 the applicant lodged a compensation claim for non-pecuniary damages caused by poor conditions of detention. in the text of his claim the applicant explicitly asked the court to consider the claim in his absence. on 14 april 2011 the bugulminskiy town court of the tatarstan republic dismissed his claim. the applicant received the notification of the time and date of the hearing after the hearing had actually taken place. the first-instance judgment was upheld on 4 july 2011 by the supreme court of the tatarstan republic. the applicant had been notified of that hearing on 29 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained. was examined at the request of the public prosecutor’s office by the investigating judge, w., after the latter had decided, at the suggestion of the public prosecutor’s office, to exclude the applicant from the hearing under article 168c § 3 of the code of criminal procedure, since there was a risk, given the nature of the reported offences, that r.k. on 25 september 2009 the applicant was arrested and detained on remand. on 3 may 2010 the arnsberg regional court opened the main proceedings against the applicant. he then beat her on different parts of her body and kicked her. the following evening the applicant asked her again to write the letter and delivered blows with his fist, primarily to her head. he then beat her with a thin rope on her back, before forcing her to carry out sexual acts on herself. the latter telling her to go to the home of the m. family. he did not comment on the remainder of the charges against him. n., the women’s shelter’s counsellor, testified that she had received a copy of the police report and had discussed the report and the events with r.k. when she had been admitted to the shelter on 2 august 2009 in a severely traumatised state. that same evening, she had also showed her her injuries, in particular bleeding head wounds, burn marks on her left breast and neck, and several bruises and weals on her back. he had later learned that his mother had been at a neighbour’s home, where he had met her together with the police officers. he himself had then gone to the home of the sch. had included the letter in the case file. of 26 september 2009, addressed to the applicant, was read out before the regional court, in which she described examples of acts committed by him from 31 july 2009 onwards, reporting the assaults, humiliations and sexual acts to which she had submitted for fear of receiving even more blows. had given at her examination by the investigating judge. a conviction could thus only be based on untested evidence where it was corroborated by other significant factors independent of that evidence. having an argument and screaming (see paragraph 23 above). to the investigating judge had been corroborated by other significant factors independent of her evidence.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in tbilisi. on 10 september 2003 the applicant was dismissed from a printing company. he brought proceedings against his employer. the preparatory hearing was attended both by the applicant and his lawyer. he requested that the hearing be adjourned. the district court held the hearing on 28 january 2004 as planned. the applicant appeared and submitted that, as he was not a lawyer, he would be unable to argue his case in the absence of his representative. counsel for the opposing party objected to the request and asked the first-instance court to issue a default judgment against the applicant. the applicant, however, repeated that he would be unable to present his case without his lawyer. the decision stated in its operative part that an application to set aside the judgment could be made to the same court within ten days. when he had appeared before the court, the applicant had stated that he objected to the examination of the case without his lawyer present and had refused to take part in the hearing. the regional court considered that, as the applicant was not a lawyer, he could not have known that a decision in absentia would necessarily be to his detriment. therefore, as the caution provided for in articles 70 to 78 had not been issued in the present case, the regional court held that there were grounds, under articles 233 and 241 of the ccp, for setting aside the decision of 19 march 2004. the applicant’s appeal was thus remitted to the district court for re-examination. the applicant’s former employer lodged an appeal on points of law against the appeal judgment. the supreme court also found that, according to the record of the hearing of 28 january 2004, the judge had warned the applicant that “in the event of a refusal to take part in the hearing, a decision [would] be given in absentia”. the applicant had therefore been sufficiently informed of the consequences of his conduct. lastly, the supreme court pointed out that a court could give a decision in absentia if a lawyer or a party failed to appear at a hearing, on condition that the party had been summoned in accordance with the rules set out in articles 70 to 78 of the ccp. according to the regional court, this meant that any refusal to take part in the hearing was unjustified. it therefore upheld the decision of 19 march 2004.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in köthel. in early 2006, x became pregnant and disclosed this to the applicant. in october 2006, she gave birth to a girl. shortly after, the relationship with the applicant ended. x and her husband, the girl’s legal father, refused the applicant’s subsequent initiatives to have contact with the child. in addition, he made a sworn declaration that he had had sexual intercourse with x around the time of conception. on 9 may 2011 the family court dismissed the applicant’s request. 17080/07, 15 september 2011) and requested contact with the child at least once a month, initially under supervision. on 1 december 2011, the court of appeal orally heard the applicant and the child’s legal father. this moment had been a breakthrough for them as a couple and their relationship had improved subsequently. on 17 august 2012 the applicant requested the court of appeal to mandate an expert opinion on the question of whether contact would be detrimental to the child or would at least serve her best interest; to hold an oral hearing where the guardian ad litem should explain her written statement; to conduct a paternity test and to hear the child. the child’s guardian ad litem opposed this. (b)  the decision of the court of appeal 20. the child was living in a well-organised and emotionally stable family unit consisting of a father, a mother and other children. the court of appeal pointed out that it was convinced that this family union would be destroyed if the applicant’s paternity were established and contact rights ordered. according to the court of appeal it resulted from the hearing that the legal father trusted, in principle, his wife’s assertions but at the same time had doubts as to his paternity, although he had not explicitly expressed them. the court of appeal pointed out that it was aware that, in view of the importance of the child’s well-being, it could be a long time before the preliminary question of paternity could be clarified and years before contact rights could be granted. such claim cannot be based on article 1686, 1st sentence, of the civil code because the applicant is not, as required by this provision, the child’s legal father. it enquired of the applicant whether, under these circumstances, he would withdraw his constitutional complaint. on 13 august 2013 the applicant replied that he would maintain his complaint because, even under the new law, he would not have obtained a more favourable decision.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in cadiz. the applicant and the public prosecutor lodged appeals. thereafter, the applicant moved to spain to work as a chef in a hotel and communicated his new address to the court. this decision was served on the applicant in spain. it decided to serve the summons on the applicant via public notification because the applicant had moved abroad. on 12 may 2009 mr arif learned by telephone of the court of appeal’s decision of that same day to overturn the regional court’s decision in respect of his authorisation to act as counsel for the applicant and of the appeal hearing having been scheduled for the next morning. this proved impossible, as the lawyer’s fax machine had no receiving function. the lawyer was offered access to the file at the courthouse the following day at 8 a.m. (that is to say immediately before the hearing), which he declined, stating that he would be out of town. on 15 april 2010 the court of appeal upheld that decision. it considered that the applicant had been properly summoned to the appeal hearing because the requirements for service by public notification, as set out in article 40 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met. as regards his interest in having the district court’s judgment reviewed, it had been his responsibility to ensure that it was possible for the summons to appear at the appeal hearing to be served in germany. it had thus been acceptable for the summons to be served by public notification. there had been neither an obligation to undertake an attempt to serve the summons at the applicant’s new address abroad prior to serving it via public notification nor one to notify him at that address that the summons had been served by public notification. on 16 november 2010 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant, without providing reasons (no. the decision was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 10 december 2010. they produced a unilateral declaration, in which they acknowledged violations of article 6 §§ 1 and/or 3 (c), as well as article 6 § 3 (b) and (c) of the convention and offered to pay the applicant a sum to cover any pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage together with any costs and expenses. the government requested that the court strike out the application in accordance with article 37 § 1 of the convention. furthermore, the compensation offered was insufficient. this question was for the domestic courts to assess. they acknowledged that the provision had, in practice, been construed narrowly.
the applicant was born in lithuania in 1980 and lives in ljubljana, slovenia. it had involved four men, while three others had assisted in its organisation. interpreted for him from and into russian and that the applicant did not request a lawyer. when asked whether i am ready to give my personal data, i state that i was born in lithuania and that my name is danas. when asked what circumstances i live in, i say that it is very difficult in lithuania. described the robbery and the events leading up to it when questioned by the investigating judge. after running out of money, they had decided to rob the bank in question. on 8 april 2002 a new decision opening a judicial investigation against the seven accused was issued. it was later challenged unsuccessfully on appeal. the applicant gave a similar account of events, claiming that he had not been among those who had robbed the bank but had waited for their return in the woods. had given a detailed and incriminating description, while having legal assistance, that the applicant had been assisted by counsel who had been appointed for him and by an interpreter at his first appearance before the investigating judge, and that there was no indication that the applicant had not been informed when arrested of the reasons for his arrest in a language he had understood. he explained that he could not speak or understand russian very well, and in particular was not able to read decisions and other documents in russian owing to the different characters, and that he had thus been prevented from effectively defending himself. in the proceedings before the constitutional court, the kranj district court replied to the applicant’s allegations, submitting that he had at no time stated that he had trouble understanding russian. it annulled the kranj district court’s decision of 29 april 2003 (see paragraph 38 above) and remitted the applicant’s application for the protection of legality for fresh consideration. ...
in accordance with section 8 of the criminal procedure act, a court should inform a suspect or accused of the right to use his own language. in the reasoning of the judgment [the supreme court] noted that there was no indication in the record of the hearing that the applicant had mentioned that he had not understood russian or that he or his counsel had requested the use of the applicant’s native language at the hearing. took part in certain meetings between the applicant and his counsel. the lawyer also assisted the applicant during his court appearances. (2) persons referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be informed of their right to have oral statements and written documents and evidence translated for them; they may waive their rights to translation if they know the language in which the proceedings are being conducted. ...
(17) this directive should ensure that there is free and adequate linguistic assistance, allowing suspected or accused persons who do not speak or understand the language of the criminal proceedings fully to exercise their right of defence and safeguarding the fairness of the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vác. he was awarded a disability pension on 6 may 1995. the applicant’s pension was increased to huf 134,566 (approximately eur 449) per month with effect from 1 may 2004. despite the appeal, the decision was implemented with immediate effect and the applicant received huf 1,996,104 (approximately eur 6,650) in arrears. according to the government, the applicant withdrew his request for a preliminary ruling on that date, whereas the applicant alleged that he had only submitted that the reference to the cjeu was not necessarily inevitable, provided that his interpretation of eu case-law was followed. however, in his view, this did not amount to a withdrawal of the request for a reference for a preliminary ruling. the judgment became final on 19 march 2010. on 23 july 2010 the applicant appealed against the decision, claiming the arrears for the whole period following hungary’s eu accession. on 11 november 2010 the pension appeals board (nyugdíjbiztosítási jogorvoslati igazgatóság) amended the decision of 7 july 2010 (see paragraph 17 above), reduced the applicant’s monthly pension to huf 138,170 (approximately eur 460) with effect from 1 may 2004, but limited payment to the period following 19 march 2005. the applicant requested a court review of the pension authority’s decision of 7 july 2010, as amended by the decisions of 11 november 2010 and 5 november 2011. the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure (act no. (3)  no appeal lies against a court decision making a reference for a preliminary ruling or dismissing a request for a reference for a preliminary ruling.” bh 2015.7.203 the kúria held as follows:
“a petition for review does not meet the requirements [of the code of civil procedure] if, for the purposes of the specification of the infringement, it contains only a general reference to [certain] chapters ... of the code of civil procedure. bh 2016.12.342 the kúria held, in so far as relevant:
“a petition for review may only be examined on the merits if[, in addition to a pure reference to the allegedly violated legal provision,] the petitioning party also describes the substance of the infringement, explains his or her legal opinion thereon and sets out the reasons supporting his or her argument.” given] its special nature, references to previous submissions are not accepted.” the constitutional court is to examine whether the procedural laws prescribing the duty of giving reasons were or were not applied in conformity with the requirements set forth in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law ...
[34]  ...the constitutional requirement of giving reasons, being examined by the constitutional court, is inherent in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law and determines the limits of the courts’ margin of appreciation, notably by requiring courts to give reasons for their decisions, in conformity with the procedural laws. 21) ab) the constitutional court examined a complaint regarding a final judgment of the budapest high court concerning its failure to refer a question to the cjeu for a preliminary ruling and to provide reasons for its decision not to do so. in these circumstances, the constitutional court shared the budapest high court’s opinion that there had been no need for a reference for a preliminary ruling. it held that such a situation – that is to say, if the courts did not adopt a formal decision complete with reasons when they refused to refer a question to the cjeu for a preliminary ruling – violated parties’ rights to a fair trial. however, the constitutional court’s decision did not find the budapest high court’s particular judgment unconstitutional on account of the court’s failure to provide reasons for the non-referral – indeed, it did not contain any arguments related to the lack of reasons in that particular judgment.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in nova pazova. on 30 june 2005 the social care centre suspended the enforcement of the decision of 9 january 2001 at the applicant’s request, as he intended to assert his parental rights in judicial proceedings. on 27 december 2005 the stara pazova municipal court issued an interim contact order giving the applicant contact with the children every other weekend from 6 p.m. on friday to 6 p.m. on sunday and during the first half of the summer and winter school holidays. the enforcement order was upheld by the district court on 17 march 2006. stayed with the applicant for the weekend of 7 to 9 april 2006. in the presence of a child psychologist from the social care centre. the children stated that they did not want to have contact with their father because they were afraid of him. said that the applicant had yelled at her before and that once, when they had been in a coffee bar together, he had snatched her mobile phone from her hand. and taken him to a coffee bar, threatening not to return him. in its opinion of 30 march 2009 the social care centre reported that the relationship difficulties between the applicant and m.k. she claimed that she had not forbidden the children from having contact with him, but was unable to influence her daughter’s opinion. on 25 february 2011 the sremska mitrovica basic court (see paragraph 14 above) held a hearing at which m.k., who had been displaying signs of an anxiety attack. stated that they did not want to have contact with their father and that he was violent towards them. the social worker stated that at the court’s request the social care centre would submit a proposal on the possibility of maintaining contact between the applicant and m.g., ’s physical and mental health and development. he was very close to his mother and sister, and felt loved and accepted by them. from seeing his father, but feared for his health. informed the social care centre that m.g. the meeting lasted one hour and passed pleasantly.
the applicants are:
(1) mr ibragim alikhanov, who was born in 1930,
(2) ms muslimat alikhanova, who was born in 1936 and
(3) ms tamara alikhanova, who was born in 1976. then they had grabbed him and forced into one of their vehicles. then on 28 december 2004 the same person had called him again from the telephone number 8-906-447-6785 and had told him that the amount of the demanded ransom had gone up by ten times because mr a. had complained to the police about the abduction. who had been on duty at the traffic police checkpoint, had told him that the abductors had introduced themselves as officers from the organised crime unit and that two traffic police officers from makhachkala had been with them. on an unspecified date in january or february 2005 the investigators questioned mr dzh.g., on 1 february 2005 the investigators questioned the neighbourhood police officer, mr r.sh., this information had been broadcast during the news programme of one of the federal television channels. on the same date he and his relative, mr a.g., had gone to that village, where in a shed next to the cemetery they had found various pieces of clothing. then a local resident had shown to them the three graves where the six bodies had been buried. on 5 april 2005 the investigators again questioned mr a., who, inter alia, again described the circumstances of the discovery of the clothes of his abducted brother in zamay-yurt and stated that according to the local residents, a special operation had been conducted there at the end of january 2005 during which six people had been killed and then buried by federal servicemen. one of the local residents, whose identity mr a. would not provide out of fear for this person’s safety, had told them that at the end of december 2004, two of his relatives had been abducted by servicemen next to the local mosque and that both bodies had subsequently been found among the six corpses at the cemetery. on an unspecified date in april 2005 the investigators again questioned mr a., whose statement was similar to the ones he had given before. on 18 may 2005 the investigators questioned a.a., who had told him about the abduction and had asked him – in return for money – to assist them in their search for their relative, mr alikhanov. on 30 december 2004 the investigators examined the crime scene at the checkpoint. therefore, there are sufficient grounds to believe that both crimes were committed by the same group of persons ... .” on 31 august 2005 the investigators ordered a forensic expert examination of the comparison of the clothes found in zamay-yurt with the description thereof contained in amirkhan alikhanov’s medical record kept in the local hospital. on 28 december 2005 the chechnya prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that on 17 july 2005 the criminal case file concerning the discovery of amirkhan alikhanov’s body had been transferred to the military prosecutor’s office of the united group alignment (the uga). on 8 june 2009 the investigation of the criminal case was resumed.
the applicants were born in 1969 and 1964 respectively and live in sandnes, norway. the applicants lived in the city of linköping until may 2007 when the first applicant travelled to iran with the children. instead, they agreed to have a team from the social council visit their home on a number of occasions. however, the decision was never enforced since it turned out that the first applicant and the children were in iran. subsequently, the second applicant telephoned, from a swedish telephone number, the norwegian social council, which in turn contacted the swedish authorities as it suspected that the family might be in sweden. a was hyperactive and had difficulties following rules and functioning in social situations. it had been noted that she felt great affection for her children. the parents’ lack of ability to understand their children’s needs, as well as the information about abuse, meant that it was necessary to take the children into public care to ensure that they received proper care. moreover, the representative found it questionable whether the applicants would agree to voluntary care, since they had refused to cooperate with the social council on previous occasions. lastly, the court noted that both of the applicants had declared that they were willing to receive help from the social council while, at the same time, they had refuted the accuracy of the investigation and claimed that the information was fabricated or much exaggerated. accordingly, there were valid grounds to take the children into public care. the applicants appealed against the decision to the administrative court. moreover, they were actively involved in an adhd association and were attending courses to understand the condition better and be able to help a. with assistance from the norwegian authorities and the school, they could take care of a and meet all of his needs. the applicants further questioned whether the social council really had a clear plan for how, in due time, to reunite them with their children and contested the council’s view that they opposed the plan for visits with the children. in fact, the first applicant’s visit with the children had gone very well and the children had also reacted positively to photographs and letters from their parents. on 10 december 2009, after holding an oral hearing, the administrative court upheld the social council’s decision. all three children had said that they missed their parents, in particular their mother, for which reason a supervised visit of the first applicant with her children should be authorised. moreover, telephone contact was allowed twice a year, for no more than 20 minutes, in a controlled setting. in this respect, he underlined that he had never been aggressive or violent toward his children. most of these decisions have not been submitted to the court, but it appears from the parties’ submissions that, on 27 march 2013, the social council decided to keep the children in public care and rejected a request by the applicants to extend their contact rights.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in steiermark in austria. the police searched the office, stated that the software installed on the computers was counterfeit, and seized the hard disks. the press release mentioned, in particular, that the newspaper in question had published a large amount of material in the context of the election campaign, and that it was in opposition to the current authorities of the komi republic, as it actively supported a well-known local politician who had a long-standing conflict with those authorities. on the same day, the president of memorial, mr i.s., published the text of that press release on his blog at livejournal.com. three comments were left under that publication on that day. it feels like they are an instrument of punishment of the recalcitrant rather than being a service to society. what can be done to carry out a rotation of meanings (ротация смыслов) in the law-enforcement agencies?” the applicant read the text of the press release and the comments, including the one left by mr t. in the applicant’s words, this latter comment made a particularly strong impression on him. only lowbrows and hoodlums – the dumbest and least educated representatives of the animal world. on the same day the applicant, who had found out the reasons for the criminal case against him, removed his comment. in his comment the applicant had expressed his disagreement with mr t., who, in the applicant’s view, had confused those two notions. with whom he had shared his thoughts regarding the police operation of 14 february 2007, and that he had had no intention of making it public, let alone calling for any actions against the police. the applicant further conceded that his comment had been quite provocative, but insisted that he had used exaggeration, in particular, referred to “an oven, like at auschwitz”, only to express an idea that “infidel” police officers should be severely punished. the town court called and examined a large number of witnesses. pointed out that “the bloggers’ community”, including his own acquaintances, had been indignant at the applicant’s comment which they had considered to be too strongly-worded; however, in that witness’s view, the applicant had merely expressed his opinion and had started a public discussion on an important issue. at the request of the parties, the first-instance court ordered that a comprehensive socio-humanities forensic expert examination of the impugned text be carried out by a commission of experts. in the court’s view, the applicant “negatively [influenced] public opinion with the aim of inciting social hatred and enmity, escalating social conflict and controversy in society and awakening base instincts in people” and “[set] the community against police officers in calling for [their] physical extermination by ordinary people”. the applicant appealed against the conviction. on 19 august 2008 the supreme court of the komi republic rejected the applicant’s appeal and endorsed the town court’s conclusions.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in rotterdam. the applicant was charged with having, with an accomplice called v., robbed three supermarkets and with having, with two accomplices, mugged someone in the street outside a discotheque. v. made statements to the police admitting his own participation in the supermarket robberies and implicating the applicant in all four crimes. the applicant was tried before the rotterdam regional court (rechtbank). not being suspected of having taken part in the street mugging, v. could not refuse to give evidence about it; he made a statement to the effect that he had not personally witnessed the robbery but had heard from bystanders that it had been committed by a group that did not include the applicant. v.’s statement disculpating the applicant was not believed by the public prosecutor (officier van justitie) and the court. v. was subsequently charged with perjury (meineed). on 30 august 2006 the regional court gave judgment convicting the applicant of all four crimes. it sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment and ordered the execution of a suspended two-week sentence of juvenile detention (jeugddetentie) imposed on a previous occasion when the applicant was still a minor. the applicant lodged an appeal (hoger beroep) with the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague. v. was again summoned as a witness by the defence. as relevant to the case before the court, he kept silence on all four charges, including the street mugging in relation to which he was by this time being prosecuted for perjury. the court of appeal gave judgment on 4 march 2008 convicting the applicant of all four charges. it sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment and, as the regional court had done, ordered the execution of the two-week suspended sentence of juvenile detention. the evidence on which the conviction of the fourth charge was based may be summarised as follows:
(a) the supermarket manager’s report to the police that his supermarket had been robbed;
(b) a statement made to the police by a cashier who had been forced at gunpoint to open her cash register, from which one of the robbers had snatched money and other goods;
(c) v.’s confession to the police, in which the applicant was named as co-perpetrator. as relevant to the case before the court, he complained under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention of the use made by the court of appeal of v.’s statements to the police to ground his convictions even though v. had refused to answer the questions of the defence under cross-examination. the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) submitted an advisory opinion (conclusie) analysing the case-law of the court, in particular the chamber judgment al-khawaja and tahery v. the united kingdom, nos. on 5 january 2010 the supreme court gave judgment dismissing the applicant’s appeal on points of law. referring to its own case-law (its judgment of 6 june 2006, ecli:nl:hr:2006:av1633, netherlands law reports (nederlandse jurisprudentie, “nj”) 2006, no. 332, its judgment in the vidgen case; see vidgen v. the netherlands, no.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in liski, voronezh region. in 2009 the applicant started to run a business as an “individual entrepreneur” (индивидуальный предприниматель). the applicant’s business was subject to an inspection in july 2014. it appears that the applicant was aware that this inspection took place. the offence record states that the applicant came to the liski unit on 6 august 2014 but then left the building before any offence record could be compiled, having stated that he had not been properly informed of the actual purpose of the meeting. thus, the applicant was not present during the compiling of the record. on 12 august 2014 the court adopted a decision to initiate a case and to examine it by way of a summary procedure. the dispatch card listed reasons for re‑dispatch, with “expiry of the retention period” being checked. the government has also submitted a dispatch card showing that the notification was delivered to the liski unit on 19 november 2014. on 10 december 2014 the court heard the case and acquitted the applicant. neither the applicant nor his representative was present, and they lodged no submissions. the liski unit appealed to the 19th commercial court of appeal. the court has not been provided with any relevant dispatch card or postal slip. according to the government, the correspondence enclosing this decision was dispatched to the applicant by registered mail but was then returned to the court as not claimed within the retention period. by a decision of the same date the appeal court then quashed that judgment, found the applicant guilty, and imposed a fine of 20,000 russian roubles (rub – equivalent to 298 euros (eur) at the time). this decision became final and enforceable on the same date. the appeal court could have required the representative to hand over a notification to the applicant in person. it is noted, however, that the statement of cassation appeal in respect of the appeal decision of 12 march 2015 was dispatched to the first-instance court on 8 july 2015 – that is to say after the expiry of the relevant period ...
the case file contains no indisputable proof that the impugned court decision was in a timely manner dispatched to and received by [the applicant]. the cassation court then upheld the appeal decision. in particular as regards the matter of notification, it considered that the decision to start proceedings had been dispatched to the applicant but that he had avoided being served with judicial notifications; however, he had been able to continue to keep himself informed, via the court’s website, of the appeal proceedings after the first-instance judgment against him (see the “relevant domestic law and practice” section below).
the first applicant is one of the founders and the chief executive officer of the second applicant, a non-profit organisation. the texts led the reader to form a negative opinion about adherents of other faiths and thus encouraged hatred and enmity towards them. muslims guilty of apostasy from islam were even denied the right to life. counsel for the second applicant submitted the following documents to the koptevskiy district court:
-  a letter from the president of the central spiritual board of muslims of russia, stating that said nursi’s texts could not be qualified as extremist or fanatical. they did not contain any calls for violence, ethnic or religious hatred or for overthrowing governments. on 9 november 2006 the koptevskiy district court ordered an expert opinion and appointed a panel of experts consisting of a philologist, a linguist psychologist, a social psychologist and a psychologist from the linguistics and psychology departments of the russian academy of science. he asked the court to appoint persons with expertise in religious issues. the printed texts submitted for expert review contain propaganda about the superiority or inferiority of citizens based on their attitude to religion (believers or non-believers) and contain statements substantiating and justifying the necessity of disseminating such ideas and world-views. they do not advocate ideas concerning people’s superiority or inferiority based on their ethnic origin.” on 28 april 2007 the koptevskiy district court ordered an additional expert opinion by the same experts. they said that the texts had been analysed from the perspective of social psychology. two of the court-appointed experts were also questioned and confirmed their findings. they also contain statements substantiating and justifying the necessity of disseminating such ideas and world-views. having received god’s order: ‘prepare your weapons and equipment for the defence!’, on 28 april 2010 the court-appointed experts delivered their joint report, finding as follows:
“the book ‘the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter’ from the risale-i nur collection by bediüzzaman said nursi, 2005 edition, is a popular exposition of the qur’an. the author’s objective is to ‘show that the truths of islam are reasonable, solid and interrelated’, which is a typical objective of any theologian ...
the verbal means used in the book do not go beyond value judgments used in any religious literature ...
under a normal perception of the text the book does not contain anything that could have a possible incentive influence on the human consciousness, will, socio‑psychological characteristics or conduct. the structure of the book is such that in the subsequent text the idea of the necessity to fight, of being ready for a fight, is, on the one hand, attenuated as it is not expressed directly; on the other hand, having been already stated earlier, it may be reinforced in the readers’ minds because the text inspires the idea that non-believers commit a crime consisting in the very fact of not believing and which, according to the text under review, does not merit forgiveness. on the one hand, the text is addressed to non-believers who do not have a developed ability to think critically. in addition, the reader is encouraged to take responsibility for his parents; to save them he must accept the advocated islamic religious creed. it proved impossible to seize the other copies as they had already been distributed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in bílovice nad svitavou (the czech republic). the date on which the applicant subsequently became a party to the proceedings is not specified. by a decision of the land office of 17 may 1999, the proceedings in respect of another part of the property ended. however, on 23 may 2003 the relevant part of the proceedings was reopened. on 12 july 2013 the land office stayed the restitution proceedings on the grounds that the parties had failed to furnish it with their consent to process, in the course of the proceedings, their personal data. on 11 september 2015 the land office dismissed part of what was left of the applicant’s claim. on 19 october 2015 the land office stayed the examination of the remainder of the claim, inviting a number of institutions to submit relevant documentation, which they did by the end of 2015. the remainder of the applicant’s claim is still pending. it also noted that the land office had maintained active correspondence with the applicant and had therefore not caused any undue delays. this led to re-examination of the case by the regional court, which decided on 11 april 2013 to allow the action and to order the land office to decide on the applicant’s claim within sixty days. on 12 november 2013, in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant, the bratislava ii district office of the public prosecution service (“the pps”) informed him that the pps had reprimanded the land office for unjustified delays in the restitution proceedings. on 21 august 2014 the applicant lodged a fresh action with the regional court under article 250t § 1 of the ccp, arguing that the land office had failed to abide by the order of 11 april 2013. at the same time, it fined it 1,000 euros (eur) payable to the account of the regional court. on 4 july 2012 the applicant lodged two constitutional complaints. on 23 august 2012 the constitutional court rejected that complaint for lack of jurisdiction to examine it. accordingly, as the administrative proceedings were still pending, the applicant should have lodged a fresh complaint about the alleged inactivity of the land office with the regional court. even though the applicant had already been unsuccessful in using such a remedy, the regional court continued to have jurisdiction over actions of that type. the second complaint was directed against the regional court. the applicant contested, inter alia, the fairness of the proceedings leading to its decision of 19 april 2012 (see paragraph 15 above). accordingly, it quashed the regional court’s decision of 19 april 2012 and remitted the applicant’s action of 20 december 2011 to the regional court for fresh examination.
on 23 december 2004 the applicants and 126 others lodged a claim with the komárno land office, an authority that is now part of the komárno district office (“the land office”), for restitution of land under the restoration of land ownership act (law no. on 27 may 2010 the land office dismissed the claim on the grounds that all the claimants lacked standing to bring it. on 21 november 2011 the nitra regional court upheld that decision following an administrative-law appeal by the claimants, lodged on their behalf by four individuals. however, following an appeal lodged by the claimants with the supreme court, on 29 january 2014 that court quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case to it on the grounds that the latter had failed to establish the representatives’ authority to act on behalf of all the claimants. the proceedings before the regional court had been conducted merely in the presence of the designated representatives and the court had failed to summon the claimants in person and to have its judgment served on them. it had thereby breached the claimants’ right of access to a court. accordingly, it became incumbent on the regional court to determine anew the claimants’ administrative-law appeal against the decision of the land office of 27 may 2010. in those proceedings, the court invited the claimants to clarify issues concerning their legal representation with a view to ensuring that they would be represented by a common representative. in a decision of 4 december 2014 the regional court issued several rulings. in so far as relevant for the present application, it ruled that the claimants would all be jointly represented by a lawyer who had up until then represented only some of them. on 25 may 2016 the supreme court upheld the decision of 4 december 2014 following an appeal lodged by the claimants. the proceedings are still pending before the regional court. having split the complaint into those two segments, the constitutional court rejected the complaint concerning the administrative proceedings on the grounds of non-exhaustion of ordinary remedies. in particular, it noted that the applicants had failed to challenge the alleged inactivity of the land office under article 250t § 1 of the code of civil procedure (ccp) (see paragraphs 19 et seq. in “relevant domestic law and practice” below). as regards the judicial-review proceedings, the constitutional court dismissed the complaint as manifestly ill-founded. it noted that those proceedings as a whole had lasted some four and a half years. however, the case had been pending on appeal before the supreme court for about two years of that period. in addition, the constitutional court observed that the proceedings had been procedurally complex on account of the number of claimants. in sum, despite the fact that its judgment had been quashed as flawed, the length of the proceedings before the regional court had not been excessive.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in ploiești. at the relevant time, he was married to i.m.u. and they had a son together, born in 2006. filed for divorce and custody of the child. on 19 october 2012 she left the family home and took the child with her. they moved in with her parents and grandmother. on 2 november 2012 the applicant lodged an application for an interim injunction (ordonanţă preşedenţială), seeking to be granted sole or shared custody of the child during the divorce proceedings, or alternatively the right to visit the child during those proceedings according to a detailed schedule that he submitted to the court. the ploiești district court gave its ruling on 8 january 2013. it also observed that the applicant had not been prevented from visiting his child in the mother’s new home, as he himself had confirmed in his statements before the court. the court noted that in any case the law did not provide for the possibility to have visiting rights established during divorce proceedings. it relied on article 6132 of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 18 below). the court also ordered the applicant to pay 1,000 romanian lei (ron – approximately 230 euros (eur)) to i.m.u., the court delivered the final decision in the case on 27 may 2013. according to the applicant, after the final decision of 27 may 2013 (see paragraph 9 above), i.m.u. and her family denied him any further contact with his son. after several postponements that were due mainly to the parties’ requests to be allowed to submit additional evidence, on 22 january 2014 the ploieşti district court gave its judgment on the divorce proceedings, ruling that the child’s sole residence would be with his mother. on 21 february 2014 the applicant asked the district court to finish the drafting of its written judgment faster, and reiterated that he had been unable to see his child for the past ten months. on 4 march 2014 the judgment was served on the applicant at his address; on 28 march 2014 he lodged an appeal. also lodged an appeal against the district court’s judgment. it upheld the previous decision adopted by the district court.
the applicant was born in 1967 and was detained at the tekirdağ f‑type prison when the application was lodged. on 9 april 2003 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation. on 13 april 2003 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul state security court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, and the state of evidence. on 23 july 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation, and attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the republic of turkey by force. the criminal proceedings against the applicant commenced. on 10 november 2008 the court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 10 november 2008 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against this decision. on 27 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 4 may 2011 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 25 september 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
are companies specialising in air transportation. on 1 june 2007 the casa issued an order banning all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007. between 4 and 8 june 2007, all moldovan aviation companies were subjected to a check by the european union safety committee. one of the conclusions set down in the visit report drawn up by the european union safety committee was that the casa failed to demonstrate the ability adequately to enforce and implement the relevant safety standards. according to the report, the casa had undertaken to remedy the situation within three months. in a letter addressed to the casa by the european commission on 8 june 2007, the former was asked to require all the companies concerned to present their response to the findings in the report by 22 june 2007 at the latest. on 14 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant companies the eu safety committee’s report and informed them that they had until 22 june 2007 to present their comments. the corresponding plan was sent by the applicant companies to the casa on 21 june 2007. also on 18 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant companies aviation instruction no. 2585 requesting them to undertake measures with a view to remedying some of the irregularities before 20 july 2007 and other irregularities before 20 september 2007. on 21 june 2007 the casa issued order no. 102/gen withdrawing the applicant companies’ aocs, and thereby terminating their activity. the casa did not specify which irregularities it referred to. as to the second and third companies, the casa relied on the fact that they flew to destinations such as iraq, afghanistan, congo, sudan, sierra leone, kosovo, new zealand and united arab emirates. the casa argued that those destinations involved security risks and that it had no resources to ensure flight security in those territories. since the casa had not observed those legal provisions, its actions were unlawful. on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant companies’ action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw the applicant companies’ aocs because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found in respect of the first applicant company and three other companies, which are not applicants in the present case, and because those companies had failed to remedy those irregularities. the court of appeal did not indicate the irregularities to which it referred. the court did not give an answer to the applicants’ argument concerning the casa’s failure to observe the provisions of section 23 the law on civil aviation and those of the regulations in the field of civil aviation. the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice, reiterating inter alia their position concerning the unlawfulness of the challenged decision.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in aydın. at the material time, the applicant was the manager of a hotel in kuşadası. on 10 july 2002 at 4.50 a.m. the applicant was arrested by police officers from the counter-terrorism unit of the i̇zmir security directorate in connection with an operation conducted against an illegal organisation, namely the bolşevik parti – kuzey kürdistan / turkiye (bolshevik party –north kurdistan/turkey). the applicant identified another co-accused, a certain m.b., this periodical, which was sold legally, was supportive of leftist ideas. however, he denied any affiliation with the illegal organisation. following his questioning, the applicant was released. on 24 october 2002, at the first hearing in the case, the applicant, who was represented by a lawyer, denied the charges against him. he maintained that he had not been involved in any illegal activity. the applicant also stated that he had lent his car to mehmet desde and m.b. when they had told him that they wanted to drive to another coastal town. he reiterated his previous defence submissions. 3713 as then in force and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine. having regard, inter alia, to the statements of the applicant as well as of the other co-accused, the “written evidence” and the content of the case file as a whole, the trial court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation by allowing the other co-accused, namely mehmet desde, e.y. to stay in his hotel without registering them in his hotel’s guestbook and by lending his car to those people. on 13 december 2004 the applicant appealed. by a decision dated 10 november 2005, the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation sent the case file back to the first‑instance court and requested that the latter reconsider the case in the light of the amendments made to the code of criminal procedure. consequently, he considered that the applicant’s acts could not be characterised as aiding and abetting an illegal organisation under section 7 (2) of the same law. again, it listed the periodicals found in the applicant’s possession as evidence in the “written evidence” part of its judgment. on 5 october 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation lodged a written opinion with the ninth division of the court of cassation in which he submitted, inter alia, that the objections of the lawyers concerning the use of police statements to convict the co-defendants should be rejected as irrelevant and unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in chișinău. on 24 august 2011 the applicant was taken into police custody on charges of murder and unauthorized possession of a firearm. he was remanded in custody by the centru district court on 28 august 2011 and his detention was subsequently extended every thirty days until 21 january 2012 on the grounds that given the seriousness of the charges against him, he might abscond, re-offend and interfere with the investigation. the applicant did not appeal against those decisions. on 17 january 2012 the applicant’s case was committed for trial and his detention was extended by the court every three months, finding that the grounds which justified his initial detention had remained valid. in his appeals against the decisions of 12 april, 10 june and 10 july 2013 the applicant complained, inter alia, about the length of his detention which, in his view, was no longer justified. by decisions of 23 april, 20 june and 25 july 2013 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the appeals. by a final judgment of the supreme court of justice of 17 september 2014 the applicant was found guilty on all charges and sentenced to twenty‑three years of imprisonment. on 28 september 2011 the applicant was transferred to prison no. 13 in chișinău where he was detained until 4 december 2014. according to the applicant, he was detained in cells with poor lighting, damp walls, and accommodating six inmates in an area of 6 square metres. due to overcrowding, the applicant had to share a bed with another inmate with whom he took turns to sleep. during his detention the applicant did not receive any bedding or clothing. certain inmates were diagnosed with tuberculosis or hiv and had bleeding wounds. he was allowed to walk outside the cell only one hour per day. without a functional ventilation system, in summer the air indoors was hot, humid and smelly which made it difficult to breathe. in cold weather the heating was not turned on and the temperature in the cells was extremely low. the squat toilet was not separated from the rest of the cell. the prison laundry was not operational and the applicant was unable to wash his clothes. on 18 april 2014 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the prosecutor general’s office about the applicant’s detention conditions in prison no.
the applicant was born in 1983 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in bolu f-type prison. on 10 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to a member of parliament, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using “kürt halk önderi”, meaning the leader of kurdish people. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the kocaeli f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”) and on 24 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 13 days’ solitary confinement, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 17 january 2008 the kocaeli enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 14 february 2008 the kocaeli assize court upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in glodeni. at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was a pensioner who received an amount equivalent to some fifty-eight euros (eur) per month. on 5 may 2014 the minister of social protection organised a meeting with the inhabitants of the applicant’s town. he contended that the coefficient employed for the calculation had been wrong and that his pension was too small. the minister replied that his pension was high enough and questioned in an ironic manner whether the applicant even understood the meaning of the words used in his question. the answer infuriated the applicant and he cursed and slapped the minister in the face. on the same day, following the minister’s complaint, criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant on charges of hooliganism. on 12 may 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered the applicant’s psychiatric examination in order to determine whether he was fit to plead in the criminal proceedings. on 29 may 2014 a commission of psychiatrists speculated that the applicant might suffer from either dementia or amnesia. however, they did not reach a final conclusion and recommended the conduct of an in-patient psychiatric examination. the applicant challenged the above decision but without success. his appeal and appeal on points of law were rejected by the bălți court of appeal and the supreme court of justice on 28 august and 15 october 2014, respectively. on 18 september 2014 the applicant was arrested by a group of five police officers and taken to the chișinău psychiatric hospital. upon arrival, the applicant was asked to sign several pre-printed documents, the meaning of which was that he was giving his formal consent to hospitalisation and treatment. he signed them, but wrote on one of them that he did not consent to being subjected to a psychiatric examination (nu sunt de acord cu expertiza). on 20 september 2014 the applicant was visited by his son in hospital. after the visit the son employed a lawyer who started to take measures in order to have the applicant released. on 24 september 2014, at the lawyer’s advice, the applicant wrote to the hospital administration a letter stating that he had been hospitalised against his will on 18 september 2014 and that if he had signed anything, he wished to withdraw his signature. it appears from a video submitted by the applicant’s representative, that the door of the hospital ward where the applicant was detained was locked and that one could enter or exit only with the approval of the medical staff. on 4 november 2014 the glodeni district court rejected the prosecutor’s request and found that the applicant had been subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment as a result of his forceful hospitalisation.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in karlovac. who tried to throw away a plastic bag containing heroin. the report stated that at about 5.50 p.m. that day several officers from the drug crimes division of the zadar police had followed a lead that the applicant had been procuring large amounts of heroin from an unknown person in šibenik and selling it on in zadar and biograd na moru with another person, v.p. the officers had arrived in a van in the car park of a supermarket in biograd na moru. had grabbed him by his hands but he had continued to resist them. on 5 november 2012 the chief of the zadar criminal police sent a report on the use of force against the applicant to the chief of the zadar police, describing the events at issue in the same manner as officers b.r. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a complaint with the ministry of interior about the force used against him by the police officers. was one of the officers who had stayed in the van when the two other officers had attempted to carry out identity check on the applicant and v.p. 4374 but it turned out that none of the officers had had that particular badge number. had been brought into the facility by police officers on suspicion of substance abuse. see paragraph 16 above) wrote a report on the force used against the applicant. she stated that the state attorney’s office had forwarded the applicant’s complaint to the general crime department of the zadar police, against officers s.k. since there had been some customers in the supermarket the officers had not resorted to handcuffing the applicant but had instead taken the applicant by the arm and escorted him towards the exit. the applicant had verbally expressed his discontent but when inside the supermarket had not physically resisted the officers. had caught up with him and applied a leg sweep technique. admitted that in responding to the applicant’s fierce resistance he might have hit him once or twice in order to prevent him from fleeing. the officers had been cautious since they had known the applicant as a drug dealer and had had to ensure that he did not flee and destroy the evidence. admitted that in the commotion he or officer b.m. he argued that the relevant facts surrounding his arrest had not been assessed, that no evidence had been collected and that it was for the state authorities to prove that the injuries he had sustained during his arrest had not been caused by the police. on charges of causing serious bodily injury.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in yerevan. were arrested by the georgian law-enforcement authorities in tbilisi when they tried to sell 15 g of enriched uranium which they had transported from armenia by train on the same day. had received the radioactive substance from the applicant. on 22 april 2010 the national security service instituted criminal proceedings in relation to the matter. had smuggled the radioactive substance to tbilisi, where they had been arrested. whom he had known for about ten years, had owed him money for a long time. as the person who owed him money) to send him some money for his journey. was questioned as a witness at the ministry of internal affairs of georgia. he stated that, inter alia, the applicant had given him 1 g of a radioactive substance in either 2002 or 2003. the applicant had arrived in armenia several days later and given the radioactive substance to h.o. he had then gone to armenia and asked h.o. to find the applicant so that he could provide them with uranium. thereafter they had sent travel money to the applicant by bank transfer. by a letter of 29 april 2011, the ministry of justice of georgia, refused to grant the request by referring to article 11 § 1(b) of the strasbourg convention, which states that a request for assistance may be refused if “his or her presence is necessary at criminal proceedings pending in the territory of the requested party”. on 6 may 2011 the applicant’s representative allowed the regional court to continue with the examination of the case even if s.t. could not be transferred to armenia, since the applicant was ill. the trial court rejected that application, considering it unfounded. made during the questioning in georgia; the statements of the witnesses v.d. and the existence of exit and entry stamps in the applicant’s passport proving that he had arrived in yerevan from moscow on 10 march 2010. could not be examined and the refusal to examine witness s.g.
a was born in 2011 and is the daughter of the applicant and y. both the mother and father had just turned 19 when the child was born. the background to this move was that the emergency foster mother had discovered a car following her after a contact session at the child welfare centre two days before, on 24 september. referring to case documents and testimony, it assessed a as insecure in her attachment to care persons. the child had already been a victim of neglect when living with the applicant and the applicant’s parents and there were reasons to fear that she would again be subject to neglect if someone in the applicant’s extended family (storfamilie) kidnapped her. the high court noted, in addition, that another psychologist, a.g.h., who had been appointed as expert in the proceedings between the parents concerning custody and parental authority (see paragraph 13 above) had already in 2012 recommended that none of the parents should have contact with a, primarily because of the abduction risk. this included a’s maternal grandfather having started serving a four and a half year sentence (see paragraphs 7 and 31 above); two years had passed since the incident in which the emergency foster mother had been followed (see paragraph 12 above) and nothing had happened since to indicate that the applicant’s family was trying to locate a or planning to abduct her; the applicant had grown older and was anew pregnant, now with a father to-be from a different environment; the applicant had gone to school and undergone a work placement. the applicant and y attended with their counsel and gave statements. in addition, it followed from articles 5(1), 10(1) and 14(1) of the council of europe’s framework convention for the protection of national minorities of 1 february 1995 (see paragraph 72 below) that the state had a duty to promote the conditions necessary for persons belonging to national minorities to maintain and develop their culture, allow the minority to learn their minority language and use it freely and without interference. in may 2013 the applicant had been evicted from her flat after several complaints from neighbours of domestic disputes. the applicant’s father had been serving a prison sentence during this entire period, and the foster parents’ identity and address were not known to the applicant’s family. one of the official complaints concerned the applicant’s brother and cousin, who he had reported for threatening to shoot him. the second concerned threats from the applicant’s father and uncle. he had raised concerns before the board that the child might be kidnapped. she was still a vulnerable child with attachment problems. she would probably be subjected to more neglect if she were abducted. according to the foster parents, the contact sessions had caused her sleep and digestive problems. the episode had not been investigated, and not much was known for certain about it. both parents appealed to the supreme court. as to the appellants’ attack on the substance of the high court’s judgment, the committee found that neither the decision’s significance beyond the scope of the current case nor any other circumstances indicated that the case should be heard by the supreme court.
the applicants, ms bozhana boyanova uzunova and mr ferad ismail seid, were born in 1978 and 1955 respectively, and live in kardzhali. the applicants co-owned a plot of land of 15,276 square metres near the town of kapitan andreevo. the decision allowed preliminary enforcement of the expropriation and stated that the owners were to be given bgn 13,023 (the equivalent of approximately eur 6,657) in compensation. the decision recorded as owner of the expropriated plot the person from whom the applicants had bought the property. the applicants brought judicial review proceedings in respect of the expropriation decision before the supreme administrative court. in a final judgment of 3 april 2009 that court declared the decision null and void as it had failed to specify the actual owners of the plot to whom compensation was due, and referred the case back to the administrative authorities. the road infrastructure agency requested re-opening of the judicial review proceedings on the ground that it had not been able to take part in them as an interested third party even though its participation was mandatory under the state property act 1996 as investor in the construction of the motorway. in a final judgment of 28 december 2010 the supreme administrative court found that compensation was due to the applicants as owners of the plot at issue and that it had to be increased to bgn 59,817 (the equivalent of eur 30,577), in accordance with the conclusions of an expert report obtained in the course of the proceedings. on 13 january 2011 the applicants invited the road infrastructure agency to pay the compensation due to them. on 5 july 2011 the council of ministers issued a new decision for expropriation, in accordance with which 5,215 square metres of the applicants’ plot were to be expropriated against compensation in the amount of bgn 1,794 (the equivalent of eur 917). the applicants brought judicial review proceedings in respect of this decision. in a judgment of 26 june 2012, the supreme administrative court declared the decision of 5 july 2011 null and void as it had failed to take account of the binding character of the judgment of 28 december 2010, the latter having determined the dispute between the parties with final effect. they subsequently wrote to the agency again on 15 october 2012, to the council of ministers on 14 october 2013 submitting also a writ of enforcement in respect of the sum due, and to the regional governor on 21 february 2014. on 10 december 2014, 20 january 2015 and 23 march 2015 respectively, the applicants wrote to various authorities, without success, seeking the payment of interest on the above amount for the period of over three years when it had remained unenforced. in the meantime, on 22 november 2013 the applicants brought proceedings before the sofia administrative court in relation to the lack of enforcement of the final judicial decision of 28 december 2010. in particular, they claimed they had incurred pecuniary damage as a result of the lack of enforcement; they also claimed interest on the amount determined in the said judgment for the period of its non-enforcement. on 18 december 2013 the court dismissed their claim as inadmissible. it found, on the one hand, that the applicants had not indicated an individual administrative act as the subject of their judicial review proceedings. the applicants appealed before the supreme administrative court, alleging a breach of article 203 of the 2006 code and a breach of section 1(1) of the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (the “smrda”), and challenging the lower court’s decision as being unreasoned. in a final decision of 13 february 2014, the supreme administrative court confirmed the lower court’s decision.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in sofia. on an unspecified date towards the end of the 1980s or the beginning of the 1990s the state took a decision to create an opencast coalmine near the village. in the years which followed the mine approached the house, due to its gradual enlargement. coal was extracted from it by means of detonations, which, according to the applicant, shook the house on a daily basis. towards the beginning of 1997 the applicant’s family moved out of the house, judging it too dangerous to stay. at the time, the mine was managed by a company which was wholly state-owned. in 2001 the applicant brought a tort action against the company operating the mine, seeking compensation for the damage caused to his property. he thought that the house had been well constructed, and explained that after the initial damage the applicant had attempted to repair it. the regional court appointed an expert, who established that the house had been constructed between 1948 and 1950, when there had been no requirements as to seismic resistance. at the time of drawing up the expert report the house was uninhabitable, as its walls were bent and cracked, with the cracks sometimes reaching 20-35 cm in width. in a judgment of 27 june 2003 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s action. it considered it established that the applicant’s property had been seriously damaged and that the damage had coincided in time with the beginning of detonation works in the mine. before the sofia court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) he called an additional witness, who stated during a hearing on 2 february 2004 that many houses in the area had already collapsed, and that all the other houses in the applicant’s neighbourhood had cracks. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. it was of the view that the lower courts had not duly accounted for the fact that the mine operated in a prohibited area close to the applicant’s house, the house being situated within both the “sanitation zone” and the “security zone” around the mine. after the case was remitted, the court of appeal commissioned a new expert report. nevertheless, it was clear that the house had been well inside the “sanitation zone” around the mine. the expert additionally noted that the detonations had been carried out by qualified workers, in accordance with the mine’s internal rules. in a judgment of 2 april 2007 the court of appeal once again upheld the regional court’s judgment of 27 june 2003, dismissing the applicant’s claim. it has not been shown in the case that the claimant’s building, constructed in the 1950s, has been damaged precisely because of the detonation works at the mine.
the first and third applicants were born in 1941, the second applicant was born in 1974, and the fourth applicant was born in 1967. the first, second and third applicants live in kazanlak and the fourth applicant lives in sofia. ms maria kopankova and her grandson, the fourth applicant (son of the first applicant) co-owned a house with a garden in kazanlak. at the time ms maria kopankova lived in the house with her two sons, the first applicant and mr kancho kopankov, and their families, which included the remaining applicants (the second and third applicants are mr kancho kopankov’s wife and son). by a decision of the town mayor of 18 july 1988 the property was expropriated under the territorial and urban planning act with a view to constructing a residential building. construction work started on the plot of land and the foundations of a future building were laid. however, the site was soon after that abandoned. throughout the years that followed ms maria kopankova and the applicants petitioned on many occasions the municipal authorities to provide them with the compensation due, but to no avail. the mayor never took a decision specifying the exact future flats to be offered in compensation (see paragraph 20 below). the latter passed away in 2011 and was succeeded by the second and third applicants. on 16 february 2009 the applicants and mr kancho kopankov made a request to the mayor under section 9(2) of the transitional provisions of the territorial planning act of 2001 (hereinafter “section 9(2)”) for the revocation of the expropriation order of 18 july 1988. as no response followed, they applied for judicial review of the mayor’s tacit refusal. the stara zagora administrative court (hereinafter “the administrative court”) gave a judgment on 27 may 2010. it found, firstly, that the fourth applicant and ms maria kopankova, and subsequently her heirs, had not received the compensation due to them, namely two flats. thus, the preconditions for the revocation of the 1988 expropriation under section 9(2) had been fulfilled. the judgment above was not appealed against and became final. they claimed the value of the house and of other objects (such as trees, the pavement and outbuildings) which had stood on the plot of land and had been destroyed, but for which they had never received any compensation. the applicants also made claims in respect of non-pecuniary damage. in the context of the ensuing proceedings the administrative court, examining the case, appointed experts, who estimated the value of the house and the remaining objects at 37,868 new bulgarian levs (bgn – the equivalent of approximately 19,370 euros (eur)). these conclusions were upheld in a final decision of 20 april 2012 of the supreme administrative court, which added that since the expropriation of the applicants’ property had been quashed and the expropriation proceedings completed, the municipality could not be liable for any damage stemming from these proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in silistra. shortly after the printing company began operating, the applicant and his family started resenting the nuisance it was causing. between july 2006 and august 2007, the applicant turned to several state institutions, including regional branches of the hygiene and epidemiological inspectorate, the public health directorate at the ministry for health, the regional building inspectorate, the mayor of silistra and the prosecution service. he did so in a brief one-paragraph letter in reply to a complaint made by the applicant on 31 july 2006. two days later, on 17 august 2006, the applicant together with three of his neighbours complained in writing to the public health directorate at the ministry for health that the printing company was operating in contravention of relevant legal requirements. on 22 august 2006, the applicant and the same three neighbours wrote again to the same directorate expressing concern about and dissatisfaction with the manner in which the measurements in respect of noise and air pollution had been taken on 18 august 2006. in particular, two individuals who had not shown any credentials had turned up and measured the noise with a machine which had not reacted to sudden high-pitched noises but was set up to measure only background noise. furthermore, when the applicant had invited the inspectors to also measure the purity of the air, one of them had opened the window, sniffed the air and stated that it was not that bad and that, in all likelihood, it would turn out to be within the relevant norms when measured. on 30 august 2006, apparently in reply to the applicant’s letter of complaint of 31 july 2006, the head of the public health agency informed the applicant that: the chemical agents identified at the work stations at the printing company in question were within the limits listed in regulation no. 6 of 2006; and that instructions had been issued to the owner of the printing company to ensure that the noise levels produced by his business were brought within the legal limits. the letter then read that on 18 august 2006 officials had measured the reverberating noise and the chemical agents produced at the printing company. on 27 october 2006 the applicant and his three neighbours wrote to the ministry for health, expressing their dissatisfaction with the reply they had received on 5 october 2006. the applicant and his neighbours further pointed out that, according to regulation no. the authors of the letter then wondered whether they as well as the people living in the immediate vicinity of the printing house should also have been taking such antidotes. like the staff at the printing company, the applicant and his neighbours suffered frequently from headaches, their washing turned grey whenever it was hung to dry and the noise produced by the machines when operating was unbearable. on an unspecified date the owner of the printing company, v.v., brought defamation proceedings against the applicant under article 147 of the criminal code 1968. on 5 june 2007 the silistra district court found the applicant guilty of libel. while officials from the ministry of health had indeed established that the noise emitted by the printing business had been beyond the authorised limits, the authorities had instructed its owner to bring it within the relevant norms and had given him a deadline, with which he had complied. that amounted to defamation, which was in breach of the law and had to be sanctioned.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in zagreb. on 28 april 2008 the daily newspaper b. published an article under the headline “mob lawyer joins the supervisory board”, describing the applicant as an extortionist. on 27 may 2008 the applicant’s representative asked the publisher to publish a correction of that information. the publisher neither replied nor published a correction of the disputed information. on 9 july 2008, after the expiry of the deadline envisaged in the relevant provisions of the media act (zakon o medijima) to publish a correction, the applicant brought a civil action against the publisher in the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), claiming non-pecuniary damage. on 10 july 2009 the publisher replied stating in particular that the applicant had failed to submit a power of attorney with his request. at a hearing held on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court heard evidence from the applicant who said that he had authorised his representative to act on his behalf vis-à-vis the publisher. on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court, relying on sections 22(2) and 40(3) of the media act, declared the applicant’s claim inadmissible. the first-instance court held that the request for the publication of a correction of the disputed information had not been signed by a duly authorised person because the applicant had not proved that his representative had actually submitted a power of attorney with the request. and that it was not accompanied with a power of attorney, the [applicant] has not proved that he had properly requested the publication of a correction of the disputed information ... an action which is, pursuant to section 22(2) of the media act, a procedural requirement for bringing a civil action for non-pecuniary damage against the publisher ...” 11. on 19 november 2012 the šibenik county court (županijski sud u šibeniku) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance decision. on 14 march 2013 the constitutional court declared a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant inadmissible on the grounds that there was “no constitutional issue” to be examined.
the first applicant company, b. tagliaferro & sons limited, is a company registered in malta in 1966 and is situated in valletta. the second applicant company, coleiro brothers limited, is also a company registered in malta in 1966 and it is situated in marsa. 109 archbishop street, valletta (hereinafter “the properties”). 109 was valued at the equivalent of eur 93,000 in 1993 and eur 140,000 in 2012. another development application was submitted in 1996 and approved in the same year. thus, the construction permit in relation to the planned project issued in 1996 expired. in 2003 the applicant companies wrote to the col requesting him to pay compensation for the taking. 125 (no measurement provided); and eur 21,733 for property no. the two applications were heard and determined concurrently by the domestic courts. moreover, the property was still earmarked for the same purpose, which purpose had never been abandoned by the authorities. moreover, until 2009 the lab did not fulfil the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal given its composition according to the law as it stood before the 2009 amendments. the constitutional jurisdictions had already held (in previous domestic‑case law) that the lab did not fulfil the requirement of independence and impartiality because of the method of appointment of its technical members before the 2009 amendments. however, these violations persisted further, in so far as even after the declaration of 2009 and the col’s deposit in court of the offer made to the applicant companies, he had failed to notify the owners as required by law [article 9 (2) of the ordinance] with the consequence that proceedings had stagnated and no access to court by the applicant companies was possible as a result of his inaction. indeed, the authorities had slacked all throughout the process. similarly, the constitutional court confirmed that the applicant companies’ failure to bring judicial proceedings to oblige the col to act could only have a bearing on the award of compensation but not on the substance of the claim. thus, such a body did not fulfil the guarantees of independence and impartiality. in the specific circumstances, those failings could not be cured by the court of appeal, which was not in a position to interfere with the conclusions of the technical members of the board. in 2018 the applicant companies submitted that no use had yet been made of their property, the value of which was increasing in line with the value of property in general in malta. it was now being refurbished and modified for such purpose. however, the applicant companies’ property remained designated for public use.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in albania. he was a member of parliament from 2013 until 20 october 2015. having regard to his parliamentary immunity, on 26 march 2015 parliament authorised the applicant’s arrest. as a result, on the same day the gpo ordered his arrest, which was carried out with immediate effect. on 27 march 2015 the gpo asked the supreme court to validate the applicant’s arrest. the applicant had been charged with a number of offences. given his public office, his financial situation, the possibility that he could tamper with evidence, and information obtained from the belgian authorities about his alleged involvement in the commission of a crime in belgium, there was reasonable suspicion that he might flee. the supreme court thus considered that the applicant’s deprivation of liberty was lawful. as to the security measure to be imposed on the applicant, the supreme court ordered his placement under house arrest. it appears from the case file that, according to a red notice issued by interpol in respect of the applicant, he was wanted for prosecution purposes. on 1 april 2015, relying on a criminal report filed by the high inspectorate for the declaration and audit of assets and the prevention of conflicts of interest, the prosecutor’s office initiated criminal proceedings against the applicant for laundering the proceeds from a criminal offence or activity and refusing to state or falsely stating what his possessions were in breach of articles 287 and 257/a of the cc. the arrest warrant referred to a letter from the tirana police directorate stating “the enforcement of the security measure of house arrest cannot be entirely guaranteed, on account of the geographical position of the applicant’s house, the large surface area of the house, the existence of more than two entry and exit gates, and the existence of numerous buildings constructed adjacent to and around the house”. on 2 april 2015 the prosecutor asked the supreme court to validate the applicant’s detention. stated that a risk of flight should not rest on assumptions, hypotheses, suppositions or second guesses. the fact that the police could not secure the applicant’s house arrest should not have been held against him. the case file did not contain evidence of any risk of flight. on 26 may 2015 the applicant appealed to the constitutional court. on 15 july 2015 the albanian gpo decided that it did not have the authority to examine a request by the applicant to attend the hearing of 19 october 2015 in belgium. on 3 may 2016 the applicant challenged the tirana district court’s decision of 26 april 2016. the court has not been informed of any outcome in those proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in tbilisi. the persons concerned had the right to meet inmates in private and access any documentation except that which was classified as confidential. stated:
“i am impelled to specify surnames and specific facts... mariam jishkariani, the president of non-governmental organisation [empathy] and a member of the [public] monitoring council [for penal institutions] has been ... grossly exceeding her powers and writing medical conclusions concerning specific persons, bypassing the commission [set up for that purpose]. the minister further noted that the director of the medical department was “the one who... [relied on] jishkariani’s illegal notes ... not signed by the members of the [medical] commission... to transfer the inmates [to the prison hospital].” they noted that the accusations levelled by the minister had been groundless in view of the fact that the transfers of inmates to and from the prison hospital had been within the exclusive competency of the ministry. the programme also featured the applicant’s brief comment, as recorded by a journalist, that the minister wanted to have “a monitoring council that [would] not take a peek inside a prison]” and “the prisons [were] in the same conditions ... as those under saddam hussein’s regime.” that field is very tainted with respect to prisons. the confrontation started immediately after we uncovered materials where mariam jishkariani had signed documents on the transfer of inmates to the prison hospital. it was revealed that there had been healthy people amongst those inmates. ... journalist: are you saying that money taken from the inmates was circulating among those people? doctors at the medical department are responsible for the medical reports. the money they took should either have been brought to me or taken by them. naturally, jishkariani could not have committed it alone. the report mentioned the applicant, in brief, and only with respect to one transfer. see paragraph 10 above) was assessed by the medical commission of the ministry on 12 january 2005. he was diagnosed with organic personal disorder with periodic episodes of decline. on 22 june 2006 the tbilisi city court found against the applicant. the court concluded that the applicant was a public figure for the purposes of the act (see paragraph 30 below) in view of her activities in prison (see paragraph 7 above), and that the burden of proving the existence of the three cumulative conditions set out in section 14 of the act (see paragraph 30 below) to classify the minister’s statements as defamation had rested with her. accordingly, it is possible that he was in possession of preliminary information about the existence of irregularities. the tbilisi city court concluded that the statements in question had been made as part of an important public discussion surrounding the management of medical facilities in the penal system.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. the applicant subsequently redesigned his online presence. only the website credits had been deleted. the photo underneath showed a pile of corpses in an unspecified third reich concentration camp. the caption below read:
“abortion and euthanasia are crimes that no human law can presume to declare lawful” (abtreibung und euthanasie sind verbrechen, die für rechtmäßig zu erklären sich menschliches gesetz anmaßen kann)
furthermore, under a link “abortions” on the austrian website a caricature-like drawing of a wolf as an executioner guillotining embryos was shown. diese „sumpfblüten” haben denselben genetischen code)
accessible via the link “not for the fainthearted” were images purporting to show aborted foetuses and the words:
“sixty years post-auschwitz: after ‘termination’, it’s off to the incinerator or the rubbish heap!” ( however, we will stand firm in our conviction that the wilful ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being is aggravated murder. abtreibungsärzte sind von uns nicht als mörder bezeichnet worden und werden von uns nicht als mörder bezeichnet. aber: wir werden zu unserer meinung stehen: das vorsätzliche „zu tode bringen“ eines unschuldigen menschen ist mord. the list was accompanied by an invitation to pray for these doctors. dr f., the plaintiff in the main proceedings, was mentioned on the list. he was of jewish faith and his family had suffered from the atrocities carried out during the national socialist era. dr f. applied to the courts for an injunction against the applicant and m.h. to pay dr f. compensation of 10,000 euros (eur). the karlsruhe regional court gave the following grounds for its decision. it concluded that the website at issue contained the general statement that abortions, as performed by dr f., were acts of aggravated murder comparable with the utterly unjustifiable atrocities inflicted on jews in the third reich. by mentioning dr f.’s name and his practice address directly in this context, the applicant had reproached the doctor specifically for performing abortions and had created a “pillory effect”. even though the applicant had made his statements in the context of a public debate of fundamental importance and freedom of expression protected polemical and sharp criticism, the applicant’s comments on the german website and the austrian website had not been posted as broad criticism but specifically against the doctors mentioned on those sites. as regards damages the karlsruhe regional court reasoned that the violation of the right of personality and the associated stigmatising effect were particularly serious, given that dr f. himself was jewish and his family had suffered directly the nazi atrocities in the third reich. the applicant was provided with the opportunity to submit his position on the above reasoning, which he made use of to no avail.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. he is a campaigner against abortion and operates an anti-abortion website. wussten sie schon, dass dr s. ... abtreibungen durchführt, die nach der rechtsprechung des bundesverfassungsgerichts rechtswidrig sind?) die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.) by a letter of 23 december 2004 dr s. requested that the applicant sign a declaration to cease and desist. we ask ourselves: is dr s. unprincipled and characterless?” ( wir fragen uns: ist dr s. stand- und charakterlos?) in ihrer nähe: rechtswidrige abtreibungen ... und sie schweigen zum mord an unseren kindern?) [ diese vorgeburtlichen kindstötungen haben mittlerweile ausmaße angenommen, welche an einen „neuen holocaust“ erinnern!) [ on 4 november 2005 the karlsruhe regional court granted the requested injunction and ordered the applicant to desist from asserting publicly, both in writing and orally, on the internet as well as on leaflets, that the plaintiff performed unlawful abortions in his medical practice. however, when read in conjunction with the whole leaflet, the statements had a “pillory effect” and amounted to a serious interference with dr s.’s personality rights, which was not justified by the applicant’s freedom of expression. the applicant and dr s. appealed against the regional court’s decision. additionally dr s. expanded his action to include the second leaflet (see paragraph 9 above), which subsequently became the subject matter of the judgment of the karlsruhe court of appeal. it ordered the applicant to desist from asserting in public that dr s. performed unlawful abortions in his medical practice and asserting in direct connection to this that “aggravated murder is the intentional ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being”. at the outset, it emphasised that the applicant’s view that abortions should be subject to criminal liability and were not compatible with higher-ranking law fell within the applicant’s freedom of expression. in the court’s view the applicant had created an unacceptable “pillory effect” by singling out the plaintiff, who had not given the applicant any reason to do so. in regard to the second leaflet the court of appeal held that even though dr s. had not been mentioned by name, it had referred to him as it had been distributed in front of his medical practice and deposited in letterboxes in the vicinity. since the applicant had not clarified that he had only been criticising abortions, which were according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court (see paragraph 17 below) unlawful but not subject to criminal liability, he had exceeded the limits of justifiable criticism. as to the claim for damages the court of appeal upheld the first‑instance judgment. it also did not grant leave to appeal on points of law.
the first applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sopot. on 10 april 2010 an aircraft of the polish air force was carrying a polish state delegation from warsaw to smolensk, russia, to attend a ceremony marking the 70th anniversary of the katyń massacre. it concluded:
“the immediate cause of the accident was the descent below the minimum descent altitude at an excessive rate of descent in weather conditions which prevented visual contact with the ground, as well as the delayed execution of the go-around procedure. according to the applicants, the parliamentary group was not an official investigative authority. the first applicant attended that meeting. the second applicant did not attend the meeting. the victims’ remains had subsequently been repatriated to poland and buried. he further intended to resolve doubts concerning the alleged explosion on board. the applicants argued that the prosecutor had applied article 209 § 1 and article 210 of the ccp without any consideration for the relevant provisions of the constitution. the ombudsman considered that exhumation of human remains carried out following a prosecutor’s decision constituted an interference with the right to respect for the memory of a late relative, one of the personal rights protected by the civil code. in the light of that provision, everyone who considered that his or her private life had been violated by an act of the authorities had to have the opportunity to seek legal protection. the applicants also stated that the prosecutor had failed to respond to their arguments based on the constitution and the convention. viii kp 17/17) decided to refer a legal question to the constitutional court on the constitutionality of article 210 of the ccp in so far as that provision did not provide for the opportunity to lodge an interlocutory appeal against a prosecutor’s decision to exhume a body. the court considered that the prosecutor’s decision of 7 october 2016 had predetermined the issue of exhumation. the reasoning was limited to a brief reference to the ongoing investigation and the decision of 7 october 2016. the participants discussed the organisational aspects of the exhumation. the exhumation of the remains of mr arkadiusz rybicki, the husband of the second applicant, was carried out on 14 may 2018. according to reports in the media, a few hundred people protested peacefully against the exhumation at the cemetery in gdańsk. the exhumation, the examination of the corpses and a second burial would interfere with that right. on 5 december 2016 the warsaw court of appeal dismissed an interlocutory appeal lodged by the applicants and upheld the regional court’s findings.
the applicant was born in 1962 and at the time of the events lived in saray, absheron region. the[se] organisations have had grants allocated to them in non-transparent ways, directing them into various activities, including those against azerbaijan. in an interview published on 2 september 2014 y.m., he submitted in this connection that the actual reason for his arrest had been the fact that he had represented numerous applicants before the strasbourg court in cases relating to election irregularities and that he had publicly accused the government of human-rights abuses at a pace event in june 2014. on 23 october 2014 the applicant applied again to the nasimi district court, requesting the substitution of remand with either house arrest or release on bail. on 24 october 2014 the nasimi district court dismissed his application based on similar findings. on 7 august 2014 the prosecutor in charge applied to the nasimi district court to have a search of the office of the association (see paragraph 8 above) and “other places of storage” authorised. the applicant did not have his own bed and had to share beds with others. the temperature inside the cell was very high. however, the cell was not adequately ventilated and the temperature inside the cell was very high in august and september and very low in winter because the central-heating system was turned on only after 15 november. without specifying the relevant periods of the applicant’s detention, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained with three other detainees in the cell measuring 17.82 sq. m., which was designed to accommodate four persons. the cell had been adequately lit and ventilated. according to the results of the scan, there was no pathology in the brain or the vertebral column. on 28 october 2014 the applicant asked the head of the detention facility to inform him of the results of the medical examinations. it is not clear from the case-file whether the applicant was provided with those documents. by a letter of 2 december 2014, the medical department of the ministry of justice informed the applicant that he had undergone the relevant medical examinations and a conservative treatment had been prescribed for him. there was only one little window which had metal bars and was not open. m. the applicant shared this room with four detainees all day waiting for his hearing. on 25 february 2015 the baku court of appeal upheld the above decision.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in yerevan. he had unsuccessfully tried to calm them down and then had gone back into the restaurant. which was situated on the second floor of the building. the results of the talk, he had then left the office but had not wanted to leave levon gulyan alone, so he had taken him to officer s.m. he had run to the courtyard and seen levon gulyan lying on the ground. later he had learned from a.m. that the latter had moved levon gulyan to his (that is to say g.t. ’s office and had been aware that he had been summoned in connection with the murder. the window had been open so he had immediately understood that levon gulyan had escaped. on 14 may 2007 the applicant was recognised as a victim and informed of his rights. on 18 may 2007 a medical examination was performed, which found that it could not be ruled out that the lock of hair found at the scene had belonged to levon gulyan. on 19 may 2007 the prosecutor, following a request by the applicant, decided to order another medical examination of levon gulyan’s body to be performed by two foreign experts from germany and denmark. there were no lesions that could not be explained by a fall from a height. by letter of 12 july 2007 the prosecutor, in reply to an enquiry made by the yerevan prosecutor’s office, stated, inter alia, that the officers of the police station, having received an assignment to find and bring eyewitnesses, had brought levon gulyan to the prosecutor’s office for questioning, which had happened only once on 10 may 2007. for that purpose he had asked officer a.m. for some water. there had been no instruction from the investigator to carry out a face-to-face confrontation and, moreover, by taking levon gulyan to an alleged confrontation, the pdci officers had violated article 206 § 2 of the ccp, pursuant to which a witness had had to be questioned at the location where the investigation had been in train or, if necessary, where he or she had been located, whereas the pdci could not be considered to have been either of those. however, they had purchased dummies 170 cm tall and weighing 40 kg, one of which could be provided to the armenian authorities. the investigating authority was still reasonably capable of taking measures to obtain the necessary dummy, since it could be ordered from the same company which provided dummies to the prosecutor general’s office of russia. therefore, the questions raised by the applicant in his appeal could be answered only after the investigation had been completed. on 18 january 2011 the investigation was resumed and assigned to the same sis investigator. on 18 july 2011 the prosecutor lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. it further appears that the applicant was an active participant in the rallies and was often on the podium, and had made a speech on the first day of the rallies. it appears that many participants in the post-election rallies, including a number of opposition leaders, were charged and stood trial within the scope of the instituted criminal cases. in reality he had been taken into custody by about 10-15 persons who did not introduce themselves as police officers and were masked. the above-mentioned persons had forced him out of the taxi and started kicking, punching and hitting him with rubber batons. h]owever, they did not obey the lawful orders of the police officers and, by committing health- and life-threatening assault, subjected [them] to mass beatings and did not obey their lawful orders, for which the activists of the above-mentioned rally were brought in to kentron police station in yerevan, among them: [a.m., the applicant, d.a., mass disorder was still continuing at freedom square and we were again pursuing the overly active demonstrators, who were running through northern avenue towards the [yerevan] press building. no police officer had approached him to ask about weapons or to say that the demonstration was unlawful and that the demonstrators were to disperse. as regards the applicant’s request to quash the decisions in question and to discontinue the criminal proceedings, the district court found that such requests could be lodged with a court only after they had been raised before a prosecutor, which the applicant had failed to do. on 19 august 2008 the criminal court of appeal upheld the decision of the district court and dismissed the appeal. on 5 august 2008 the investigator decided to drop the charges against the applicant under article 225.1 § 2, article 301 and article 318 § 1 of the cc (see paragraphs 91, 93 and 95 below). it was stated that the applicant, having regularly participated in the unauthorised demonstrations held following the presidential election, had been present at freedom square on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m., when some of the demonstrators, using makeshift clubs, rods and other dangerous objects, had assaulted the police officers after the latter had demanded to be allowed to verify the information concerning the possession of arms and ammunition by the demonstrators. twice hitting him on the head with a stick and causing light damage to his health, after which he had disappeared in the crowd. on the same date the investigator invited the applicant for questioning and a confrontation with police officer a.arsh. he and his co-thinkers who were at freedom square on 1 march 2008 had found out about the forthcoming arrival of the police several hours in advance. the applicant further contested the allegation that he had assaulted police officers a.arsh. had participated in clashes on both 1 and 2 march 2008. who were high-ranking police officials and had apparently given orders for the police operation, was important in order to assess the police actions of the morning of 1 march 2008. on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m. police officers demanded the persons gathered at yerevan’s freedom square to allow them to verify the above information by inspecting the area. pointing, inter alia, to the fact that their statements made in court differed, while those made during the investigation had been identical in wording.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yerevan. the applicant is an ethnic armenian who was born and raised in iran and who subsequently went to live in armenia. in a note dated 3 march 2008 the investigator stated that the applicant’s wife had presented his passport and that the information provided by the applicant about his identity did not correspond to the information contained in his passport. he had a higher education, was married, was head of a company, had a minor child dependent on him and had no previous convictions. he was a respected and trusted person in the society, was known to be of good character, had a permanent place of residence and a minor child dependent on him, and had always respected the law. on 20 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 23 april 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan decided to set the case down for trial and to keep the applicant in detention. the hearing was adjourned until 29 september 2008. thereafter the applicant declared that he wished to lodge a challenge to the judge. on 27 february 2009 the criminal court of appeal, taking into account that article 314.1 § 6 of the ccp had been amended in the meantime (see paragraph 35 below) and as a consequence the periods during which the trial court hearings had been adjourned were to be calculated as part of the applicant’s sentence, decided to release him on the grounds that he had already served his one-year sentence. between 6 march and 23 december 2008 the applicant was kept at nubarashen remand prison. m and accommodated seven to eight inmates. the cell was located in a semi-basement and was very damp and unsanitary. in the evening the toilet situated in the corner of the cell became clogged and sewage from the upper floors flooded the entire cell floor. 4, where he was kept until 14 march 2008. he shared the cell with another hunger striker. m, had a pit in front of it which prevented natural light from entering the cell. from 15 april to 4 september 2008 the applicant was kept in cell no. the cell had only eight beds, so the inmates had to sleep in turns. the sanitary conditions were relatively satisfactory.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is detained in gorodyshche in the rivne region. on 19 july 2010 the applicant was arrested. according to the applicant, following his arrest, from 19 to 22 july 2010 police officers ill-treated him in order to force him to confess to attempted murder of the victims. on 22 july 2010 an arrest report was drawn up documenting the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of attempted murder. he responded that he had chosen the window which had been lit up by light from a computer, indicating that people were living there. on 24 july 2010 the applicant refused the services of lawyer o. and asked that s. be admitted as his lawyer instead. he refused to give evidence and stated that he would testify on that point in the course of the trial. the prosecutor questioned several police officers, who denied any ill‑treatment. he had then been released and had come back to the station voluntarily when summoned on 22 july 2010. testified that on the night of the crime he had taken the applicant to the victims’ house in his car and that the applicant had had a bag with him. it sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. the applicant appealed, arguing, primarily, that he had not intended to murder the victims and had set their house on fire only after attempting to verify that there had been nobody inside. he insisted that he had been ill‑treated in order to extract his confession. on 29 may 2012 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) requested the slovyansk prosecutor to investigate the applicant’s ill-treatment allegations. police officers stated that the applicant had been arrested and handcuffed on 19 july 2012 but had then been released and invited back for a new interview on either 21 or 22 july 2010. officer f. stated that he could not explain the discrepancy between the date of the applicant’s initial confession, 21 july 2010, and the date of his official arrest, 22 july 2010, insisting that the applicant had been handed over to the investigator, who had put him under arrest immediately following his confession. the record of the interview with the medical expert is one page long. lawyer o. stated that the applicant had not complained to him of any ill-treatment. by way of reasoning, the prosecutor stated, in particular, that the records of the police station where the applicant had allegedly been ill‑treated did not show that he had entered the station during the relevant period. however, the court of appeal did not establish any causal link between that irregular detention and his confession.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. he is a campaigner against abortion and operates an anti-abortion website. on 12 and 13 april 2005 the applicant distributed leaflets in the vicinity of the medical practice of dr st., the leaflets stated, inter alia, that the abortions performed by dr st. in his practice, for which he gave the address, were unlawful according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court. in addition the leaflet contained the following statements:
“according to international criminal law: aggravated murder is the intentional ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being!” ( sinngemӓβ aus den internationalen strafgesetzen: mord ist das vorsӓtzliche “zu-tode-bringen” eines unschuldigen menschen!) “the murder of human beings in auschwitz was unlawful, but the morally degraded ns state allowed the murder of innocent people and did not make it subject to criminal liability.” ( die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.) the applicant also addressed passers-by and the physician’s presumed patients and attempted to engage with them in conversations about abortion. lodged an application for a civil injunction against the applicant and on 25 october 2005 the mannheim regional court granted the requested injunction. on 24 february 2007 the karlsruhe court of appeal upheld the decision and slightly modified the wording specifying the geographical area concerned by the injunction. it also refused to grant leave to appeal on points of law. the courts held that in the case at issue there were no factual or legal differences justifying deviating from the case-law of the federal court of justice. in so far that the doctor in the present case was slightly more well-known than the doctor in the original case, the court of appeal held that this was of minor relevance. had appeared as an expert before the german parliament many years previously did not have any substantial effects on dr st’s public profile at that time. in different legal disputes was irrelevant, as trying to enforce his rights in the appropriate legal procedure could not redound to dr st. by implying that he committed criminal acts and interfered with the relationship of trust between doctor and patient, which deserved special protection against the interventions of others. the applicant had therefore severely interfered with dr st. on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. he is a campaigner against abortion and operates an anti-abortion website (babycaust.de). at the time of the proceedings outlined below, the website included, among other things, the following content. on the starting page a picture of graves was shown and the text underneath read “then: holocaust”. upon clicking on the picture, the user was directed to a page titled: “abortion – the new holocaust?” on which the holocaust was compared to abortions. on the left margin of the starting page, there were several links, of which one was called “life or death?”. from that page, the reader was directed to a location-based alphabetical list mentioning the names and practice addresses of doctors who performed abortions in germany, and to a request for prayers for those doctors. somewhat farther down on the same page, it was stated that counselling centres that issued certifications:
“... are enabling and facilitating the unpunished aggravated murder of children in their mother’s womb.” (... ermöglichen und begünstigen einen straffreien kindermord im mutterschoβ.) one of the doctors listed on the applicant’s website, dr q., sought a civil injunction ordering the applicant to remove his name and address from the website. on 23 may 2006 the mannheim regional court rejected dr q.’s application on the grounds that it was a fact that dr q. performed abortions and that the remainder of the website’s content was covered by the applicant’s freedom of expression. it observed, in particular, that the present case was not comparable to similar cases which had concerned an interference with personality rights by the distribution of personalised leaflets. the publishing of a doctor’s name on a list of abortion performing doctors had no comparable “pillory effect”. subsequently dr q. appealed and – during the appeal proceedings –
modified his application, seeking a civil injunction ordering the applicant to desist from labelling abortions, such as those performed by dr q., “aggravated murder”. on 28 february 2007 the karlsruhe court of appeal granted the sought injunction. while the term “aggravated murder” did not have to be understood in a merely legal sense but could also be understood as a moral judgment, the overall presentation of the website at the very least did not exclude a reading that dr q. had perpetrated the criminal offence of aggravated murder. even though the applicant had pointed out that abortions were exempt from punishment, he had not referred to section 218a of the criminal code (see paragraph 14 below), which exempted abortions as performed by dr q., from criminal liability. in sum, the statements of the website could be understood as a personalised accusation against dr q. of perpetrating aggravated murder. on 2 july 2009 the federal constitutional court refused to admit a complaint by the applicant for adjudication for being inadmissible, without providing reasons (no.
the applicant was born on 6 july 1948 and lives in kyiv. on 22 december 2005 the applicant was elected to the post of judge of the kyiv administrative court of appeal by the ukrainian parliament. on 6 february 2009 he was appointed president of that court by the council of judges of ukraine (a body of judicial self-governance). he was appointed for a five-year term, it being understood that he would reach the retirement age in july 2013, before the end of that term. the review was carried out in february and march 2011 and concerned the years 2009 and 2010, as well as the period between january and february 2011. the hcj scheduled hearings on 30 and 31 may 2011 and the applicant was invited to attend them. in reply, the kyiv administrative court of appeal informed the hcj once again that the applicant was on holiday until 8 july 2011. it stated that “the improper organisation of the court’s work was the result of the failure by the president of the court, mr a. denisov, to comply with the provisions of the applicable laws concerning the fulfilment of his administrative duties”. the decision was voted on by the hcj, whose members present on that occasion included judge k., the prosecutor general and other judicial and non-judicial members. out of the eighteen members present, eight were judges. fourteen votes were cast in favour of the applicant’s dismissal. furthermore, the applicant alleged that the president of the hcj and another member of the hcj had previously communicated with him, attempting – albeit without success – to influence him in the course of his professional activities. on 23 june 2011 the applicant was dismissed from his administrative position, remaining in office as a judge of the same court. in his claim the applicant submitted that the hcj had failed to comply with the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal. the applicant further argued that his right to participate in the hearings had not been secured. the hac adopted a decision to that effect, stating that it had no jurisdiction to determine that issue. on 11 october 2011 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim concerning his dismissal from the administrative position as unsubstantiated. in its decision the hac specified, in particular, that it had competence to review whether the impugned decision had been taken lawfully, reasonably, proportionately and, among other requirements, impartially. the hac stated that the applicant had not contested the facts forming the grounds for his dismissal and therefore those facts had been taken as established. in conclusion, the hac stated that the hcj had not violated the constitution or the laws of ukraine.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1976 respectively and live in switzerland. at the relevant time, they were members of a research cooperative called the east scientific research cooperative (doğu bilimsel araştırmalar kooperatifi – “the cooperative”). between 30 may and 1 june 2005 the cooperative organised an exhibition in diyarbakır as part of the fifth diyarbakır culture and art festival, entitled “witnesses of war talk”. within the context of the exhibition, photographs of deceased members of the pkk (an illegal armed organisation), deceased members of the security forces who had been killed in security operations, persons who had lost their lives in prison, victims of enforced disappearances and victims of assassinations by unknown assailants in south-east turkey were publicly displayed. the exhibition also included statements from family members of deceased and disappeared individuals, presenting their relatives and containing their personal views on the disturbances going on in south-east turkey, and their wish for an enduring peace. on 31 may 2005 the applicants gave a statement to the investigating judge. both of the applicants maintained that the exhibition in question had been organised for purely sociological reasons, and that they had conducted interviews with the families of the deceased which had also been included in the exhibition. they asserted that there had been no intention to disseminate propaganda in favour of the pkk. the investigating judge dismissed an application by the public prosecutor to remand the accused in custody. on 6 october 2005 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court, charging the applicants and five other suspects with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no. throughout the proceedings before the diyarbakır assize court the applicants repeated their previous statements and contended that photographs of deceased members of the security forces had also been displayed in the exhibition alongside those of members of the pkk. the applicants were sentenced to two years and a year and eight months’ imprisonment, respectively. the court also noted that a “war” was an armed conflict between two states and a “guerrilla” was an armed person who fought against unjust occupation. the court further observed that a couple of photographs of deceased soldiers had also been displayed in order to conceal the accused’s intention to incite young people to join the pkk. on 9 june 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment in respect of the second applicant, holding that the case should be reviewed in the light of article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (law no. 5271), which regulates the suspension of a judgment’s pronouncement. however, the trial court’s judgment of 18 may 2006 became final in respect of the first applicant. on 3 august 2009 the decision of the court of cassation was filed with the registry of the first-instance court. on 22 october 2009, in accordance with article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, the diyarbakır assize court decided to suspend the pronouncement of its judgment in respect of the second applicant on the condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years. the first applicant served the sentence arising from the judgment of 18 may 2006.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tunceli. on 5 april 2007 the applicant attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in the hozat district of tunceli. on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of the dhkp/c (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7 (2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor noted that the applicant had chanted the following slogans during the concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”); and “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”). during the investigation and the proceedings against him, the applicant stated that he had attended the concert in question and chanted the slogans “music shall not stop, dance shall continue” (“türküler susmaz , halaylar sürer”) and “we will not be defeated by oppression” (“baskılar bizi yıldıramaz”). he also noted that he had been on the concert’s organising committee. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment. in its judgment, on the basis of a police report on a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, the indictment, the applicant’s defence submissions, and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, the court considered it established that the applicant had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. the court considered that the concert, for which legal and administrative authorisation had been obtained, had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c, and that the applicant had chanted slogans used by that organisation. the malatya assize court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment. between 6 october 2011 and 1 august 2012 the applicant duly served his prison sentence.
the applicant was born in 1971 and serves his life sentence in a correctional colony in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 27 march 2003 the applicant was arrested on charges of illegal possession of firearms, two armed robberies of local post offices, murder of three russian post service cash messengers and attempted murder of the fourth one. on 14 october 2003 the case was sent to the supreme court of the buryatia republic (“the regional court”) for trial. twice, on 20 april 2004 and 22 may 2007, the applicant was convicted as charged. both convictions were set aside by the supreme court of russia. on 12 september 2008, in the course of the third round of jury trial, the regional court decided, upon a request by a representative of the russian post, to close proceedings to the public. it dismissed the applicant’s objections made with reference to article 6 § 1 of the convention. in doing so the presiding judge referred to the case-file documents containing information about security measures and equipment in post offices, weaponry, schedules and routes of cash messengers, etc. under the relevant russian post regulations that information was classified as “for internal use only”. the regional court found that that information was a trade secret protected by the commercial secrets act (federal law no. 98-fz of 29 july 2004) and that its disclosure could have harmed public interests. every hearing after 12 september 2008 was held in camera. on 14 december 2008 the jury convicted the applicant as charged. in the last days of december the trial judge sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 4 june 2009 the supreme court quashed the conviction on one count and upheld the remainder of the verdict and sentence. the court of appeal held, in particular, that the decision to dispense with a public hearing had been lawful and rejected, in a summary fashion, the relevant arguments by the applicant.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. on 17 april 1999 the fier district court (“the district court”), following proceedings in which the applicant did not take part, convicted the applicant and his two co-accused of a number of serious criminal offences. it sentenced the applicant to death in absentia. on 8 may 2001, following appeals lodged by the applicant’s co‑accused, the supreme court upheld the lower courts’ decisions. however, it sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment. on 1 december 2006 the applicant was extradited to albania from italy. he was officially informed of his conviction in absentia on the same day. on 8 december 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the district court for leave to appeal out of time. on 25 january 2007 the district court dismissed the application, finding that the supreme court’s decision of 8 may 2001 had become res judicata and that, consequently, the applicant could not be tried a second time for the same offence. on 8 june 2007 and 2 july 2010, following the applicant’s appeals, the court of appeal and the supreme court, respectively, upheld that decision. he also complained about the unfairness of the proceedings in absentia. on 21 september 2011, the constitutional court, sitting as a full bench, rejected the appeal by a majority. it found that the applicant’s complaint against the supreme court’s decision of 2 july 2010 was manifestly ill-founded. as regards his complaint about the unfairness of the proceedings in absentia, and the domestic courts’ dismissal of his application for leave to appeal out of time, the constitutional court noted that the applicant had not complained about the domestic courts’ decisions taken in absentia (see paragraphs 6-8 above). it further found that that complaint was in any event time-barred. it also reasoned that in the present case the supreme court’s unifying decision no. 1 of 20 january 2011 was applicable (see izet haxhia v. albania, no. in addition, it noted that although the appeals before the supreme court against the lower courts’ decision were lodged by the co‑accused and not the applicant, the supreme court had examined and amended the lower courts’ decisions of 17 april and 1 june 1999 also in respect of the applicant. on 21 september 2007 the constitutional court dismissed the appeal as having been lodged out of time, considering that the two-year time-limit had started to run as from 8 may 2001. the decision was communicated to the applicant’s lawyer on 25 september 2007.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in diyarbakır. on 30 september 2007 a reading out of a press statement and a march were held in diyarbakır in order to protest about the conditions of detention and alleged poisoning of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation. the protesters gathered in front of the building of the diyarbakır branch of the democratic society party (demokratik toplum partisi) (dtp) where a press statement was read out. the applicant, as a member of the dtp, participated in the gathering and the ensuing march. according to a police report dated 9 october 2007, the applicant was seen while carrying a banner which read “i̇nsanlık zehirleniyor” (“the humanity is being poisoned”) and applauding together with other demonstrators in the police video footage. on 9 october 2007 the applicant was taken into police custody. on the same day she was detained on remand. on 17 october 2007 the diyarbakır public prosecutor charged the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) on account of the content of the banner she had carried during the demonstration of 30 september 2007. on 4 december 2007 the applicant was released pending trial. on 18 march 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant as charged. the court found it established, on the basis of an expert report on the police video footage, that the applicant had been together with other persons who had chanted the slogan “be serok jiyan nabe” (“there is no life without the leader”) and that she had carried a banner which read “the humanity is being poisoned”. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 9 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 18 march 2008. on an unspecified date the applicant started serving her prison sentence. on 17 july 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the diyarbakır assize court ordered her release from prison, in accordance with law no. 6352 which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and which had amended certain provisions of law no.
the first applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in vilnius. the second applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in pravieniškės. the first applicant has been detained in lukiškės remand prison since 17 march 2008. on 27 july 2012 he lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he claimed 74,690 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 21,630 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the court also found, on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities, that the temperature and the amount of natural light in some of the cells in which the applicant had been detained had not complied with domestic hygiene norms. the applicant was awarded ltl 1,500 (approximately eur 434) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 20 may 2013 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety. the second applicant was detained in vilnius correctional facility from 8 june 2012 to 5 february 2016. on 4 october 2013 he lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded dormitory‑type rooms. he claimed ltl 11,000 (approximately eur 3,200) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. on 12 march 2014 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim. the court found that for seventy‑nine days the applicant had had 2.9 sq. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic requirement of 3.1 sq. it also considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention. the court therefore dismissed the applicant’s claim for non‑pecuniary damages. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision and on 15 may 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld in part his appeal. it found that, according to the applicant’s submissions which the administration of the correctional facility had failed to refute, for 274 days he had had between 2.33 and 3.04 sq. m of personal space, in breach of the relevant domestic requirements. the court considered that, despite the fact that the applicant had been allowed to move freely during the day and that the material conditions of detention had been appropriate, there were grounds to award him non-pecuniary damages.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in adıyaman. on 17 october 1999 the applicant sat an examination in order to become a public servant. she was successful in the examination and on 27 june 2000 she was notified by the state personnel department attached to the prime minister’s office that she had been appointed to the post of security officer in the kilis branch of tedaş, the state-run electricity company. on 4 september 2000 the kilis branch of tedaş informed the applicant that she would not be appointed to a post in that office as she did not fulfil the requirements of “being a man” and “having completed military service”. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an action against tedaş with the ankara administrative court requesting the annulment of the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş. in her deposition, the applicant noted that being a man was not a requirement for appointment to the post in question and that she fulfilled all the requirements for that post. on an unspecified date the general directorate of tedaş submitted to the administrative court that one of the requirements for the post in question had been declared by the state personnel department as “having completed military service” and that therefore only men could be appointed to the post. the applicant, being a woman, could therefore not be recruited as a security officer. on 28 november 2001 the ankara administrative court annulled the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş. the court held that the requirement of “having completed military service” should be considered to apply only to male candidates and that there had been no restriction on women working as security officers in tedaş. on 30 january 2002 tedaş lodged an appeal against the judgment of 28 november 2001. on 1 april 2003 the applicant was recruited by tedaş. on 21 october 2003 the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of the ankara administrative court, holding that the requirement regarding military service demonstrated that the post in question was reserved for male candidates. the high court therefore found that the administration’s decision had been in accordance with the law. on 19 march 2004 the applicant was dismissed from her post. on 30 december 2004 the ankara administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case, taking into consideration the decision of the supreme administrative court. on 7 may 2007 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 30 december 2004. on 12 july 2007 the supreme administrative court’s judgment was notified to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in assemini (italy). by a decision of 4 december 2006 of the cantonal prosecutor of the hercegovina-neretva canton (hercegovačko-neretvanski kanton; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) the applicant was granted the reimbursement of costs which she had incurred as a witness in the amount of 519 convertible marks (bam)[1]. on 29 february 2008 the mostar municipal court (“the municipal court”) rejected the applicant’s request for the enforcement of this decision, deeming it unenforceable. on 19 november 2008 the municipal court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 19 june 2009 the municipal court upheld the objection lodged against this decision. on 1 april 2010 the cantonal court quashed this decision and again remitted the case to the municipal court. on 18 february 2011 the municipal court partly accepted the objection against the writ of execution specifically as regards the interest on the main debt calculated from 4 january 2007, and the interest on the total costs of the enforcement proceedings. on 2 december 2011 the cantonal court upheld this decision. on 19 september 2013 the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina dismissed the applicant’s request for revision as inadmissible. on 23 december 2013 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina partially accepted the applicant’s appeal and thereby found a violation of her right to a trial within a reasonable time, due to the non-enforcement of the decision of the municipal court of 18 february 2011 (see paragraph 12 above). the constitutional court, however, did not award the non-pecuniary damage requested by the applicant. on 21 october 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina confirmed that the final decision in question had not yet been enforced. on 18 december 2014 the said final decision was enforced and the applicant was paid in cash. on 31 october 2010 the applicant submitted to the municipal court a request for the enforcement of this judgment. on 14 september 2011, 4 november 2011 and 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted requests for the acceleration of the enforcement proceedings. on 5 december 2012 the municipal court issued a writ of execution. on 13 june 2013 the municipal court dismissed the objection lodged against its decision of 5 december 2012, and p.m. subsequently appealed this decision to the cantonal court. on 16 october 2013 the cantonal court dismissed the appeal lodged by p.m. 25. on 4 august 2016 the said final judgment was enforced and the applicant was paid in cash on her bank account in bosnia and herzegovina. it appears that the applicant was still living in italy at that time.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in the kızıltepe district of mardin. on 30 march 2006 the applicant participated in a march and the reading out of a press statement held by the party for a democratic society (demokratik toplum partisi –“the dtp”) in kızıltepe. the protesters gathered in front of the building of the kızıltepe branch of the dtp and walked to the building of the district branch of the justice and development party (adalet ve kalkınma partisi), where a press statement was read out. the press statement concerned the clashes that had occurred between demonstrators and the police in diyarbakır on 29 and 30 march 2006. the protestors then returned to the dtp building. during the march the protesters chanted slogans. the applicant participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement as a member of the dtp. on 8 march 2007 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment charging the applicant and eleven other individuals with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had attended the demonstration of 30 march 2006 and chanted the slogan “tooth for tooth, blood for blood, we are with you öcalan” (“dişe diş, kana kan, seninleyiz öcalan”). within the context of the criminal proceedings initiated following the indictment dated 8 march 2007, an expert who had examined the police video recordings of the public gathering of 30 march 2006 observed that the applicant had acted together with the crowd, but that it could not be established whether he had chanted the above-mentioned slogan since he had covered his mouth and nose. on 22 april 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no. in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had accepted that he had participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement, but denied the veracity of the allegation that he had chanted any slogan. the assize court found it established that the march and the gathering at which a press statement had been read out on 30 march 2006 had turned into a propaganda event in favour of the pkk and an illegal demonstration, and that the accused, including the applicant, had actively participated in that event. the assize court further observed that although, according to the expert report, it could not be established that the applicant had chanted the slogan, on the basis of the photographs in the case file, it was established that he had acted together with the demonstrators. noting that there were other demonstrators who had covered their mouths and that the police documents showed that the applicant had actively taken part in the demonstration and instructed others to chant slogans, the assize court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 2 july 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 22 april 2008. on 4 february 2011 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 21 june 2011 he was conditionally released.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. on 21 march 2007 the applicant attended celebrations for the festival of newroz in buca, a district of the city of i̇zmir, as one of the moderators. while she was hosting the event, the applicant addressed the crowd in kurdish and invited them to observe a minute’s silence in memory of “newroz martyrs” and martyrs for freedom and democracy. on 10 april 2007 the i̇zmir assize court issued a warrant for the applicant’s arrest and a search of her residence. on 11 april 2007 she was arrested at her house. on 12 april 2007 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge. in her statements to the public prosecutor and the judge, she maintained that she had attended the newroz celebrations as a moderator and that she had not shouted any illegal slogans. the investigating judge remanded the applicant in custody following her questioning. on 24 april 2007 the public prosecutor instituted criminal proceedings before the i̇zmir assize court against the applicant and seven other individuals, charging them under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) with disseminating propaganda in favour of an illegal organisation and, under article 215 of the criminal code, praising a crime or a criminal. subsequently the criminal proceedings commenced before the i̇zmir assize court. on 13 august 2007, at the end of the first hearing in the trial, the first‑instance court ordered the applicant’s release. 3713 of disseminating propaganda in favour of an illegal organisation and sentenced her to one year’s imprisonment. we thank those who enabled us to be where we are today. according to the court, the newroz celebrations had turned into a propaganda event in favour of the pkk and the speakers had chanted slogans and had incited the crowd to chant slogans. the court considered that in view of the applicant’s conviction under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 it was unnecessary to deliver a decision in respect of the charges under article 215 of the criminal code. on 21 september 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir assize court. between 13 january and 22 june 2012 the applicant served her prison sentence. on 22 june 2012 the diyarbakır assize court ordered her conditional release.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in novi sad. the proceedings began on 19 november 1999 when a third private party brought a lawsuit concerning his tenancy rights in respect of a flat owned by a respondent. the applicant acted as an intervener in these proceedings on the side of the respondent since she had previously signed a tenancy agreement with him. on 8 april 2003 the first instance court suspended the proceedings (mirovanje postupka). on 20 august 2003, 20 october 2005 and 13 may 2009 the first instance court terminated the proceedings having deemed the lawsuit as withdrawn due to the fact that the parties had failed to appear at the scheduled hearings. all three of these decisions were subsequently quashed on appeal. on 29 march 2012 the first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the respondent and the applicant. on 22 august 2012 this judgment was upheld on appeal. on 28 september 2012 the applicant lodged a further appeal with the constitutional court alleging a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time. on 10 february 2015 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time, but rejected her claim for non-pecuniary damages stating that the finding of a violation alone constituted sufficient redress for the said breach. in so doing it noted, inter alia, that the applicant had significantly contributed to the length of proceedings in question.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sanski most. by a judgment of the banja luka court of first instance of 23 may 2005, which became final on 11 september 2007, the republika srpska (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicant 42,767 convertible marks (bam)[1] on account of pecuniary damage together with default interest calculated from 23 may 2005 until final payment. on 1 february 2010 the applicant submitted a request for the issuance of the writ of execution in his case, which request he amended on 30 august 2010. on 18 october 2010 the applicant submitted a request for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance. on 15 november 2010 the banja luka court of first instance issued the writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 18 march 2011 the banja luka court of first instance rejected the objections against its decision of 15 november 2010, as well as the applicant’s request for the payment of the costs of the enforcement proceedings. on 31 may 2011 the banja luka court of first instance made certain corrections to its decision of 18 march 2011. on 15 december 2011 the banja luka court of second instance quashed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 18 march 2011 and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 26 march 2012 the applicant submitted a request for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance. on 12 april 2012 the banja luka court of first instance partially granted the objection of the republika srpska against the writ of execution. on 23 april 2012 the applicant appealed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 12 april 2012. on 11 june, 13 july, and 21 november 2012, and on 15 january 2013 the applicant submitted further requests for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of second instance. on 21 january 2013 the banja luka court of second instance rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 12 april 2012. on 7 october 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina ruled in favour of the applicant that the enforcement proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance had not been finalised within a reasonable time. it further ordered the banja luka court of first instance to urgently expedite the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case. the constitutional court considered this to be sufficient just satisfaction and rejected the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damage. on 8 november 2016 the final decision in question was enforced in cash, regarding the principal amount and the statutory default interests. on 5 july 2017 the costs of the enforcement proceedings and related statutory default interests were also fully paid to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is detained in kybartai. on 22 december 2011 the applicant was arrested and taken to klaipėda police station, where he was detained for various periods until 5 march 2013, for 130 days in total. for twenty-two days the applicant had between 3.25 and 4 square metres of personal space at his disposal; for the remaining period he had more than 4 square metres of personal space, sometimes even up to 9.36 square metres. on 4 january 2012 the applicant was taken to šiauliai remand prison, where he was detained for various periods until 13 march 2013. no information concerning separate cells, their sizes and the number of inmates has been provided to the court. on 11 october 2013 the court of appeal rejected an appeal by the applicant and the judgment became final. between 13 march 2013 and 5 may 2014 the applicant was held in five different cells: nos. for 316.5 days the applicant was alone in the cells, the plot of which varied between 6.83 and 7.94 square metres. the government have not provided any information regarding this matter. on 3 june 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court. the applicant further complained regarding his conditions of detention in klaipėda police station between 23 december 2011 and 5 march 2013. he complained regarding overcrowding, low temperatures during the winter and high temperatures during the summer, insufficient ventilation, the fact that he could only shower once a week, the lack of proper partitions between toilets and cells, and the fact that there had been no long-term visits. the court held that he had spent 419 days in lukiškės remand prison, and had had more than 3.6 square metres of personal space at his disposal for 418 days. on one evening the applicant had had 2.48 square metres of personal space at his disposal. the court also found that the air temperature in cell no. 9 had been 0.19˚c lower than the standard. as regards long-term visits, the court held that the applicant had not been entitled to them, in accordance with domestic law. with regard to klaipėda police station, the court found that the applicant had had insufficient personal space (less than 5 square metres) for fifty‑seven days, and that the partition wall between the toilet and the cell, which was 1.2 and 1.3 metres in height in different cells, had been too low and had not satisfied the standards of the domestic law or the cpt. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 10 november 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. two other short-term visits were changed into phone calls (the visits of 12 june 2015 and 29 october 2015).
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in adıyaman. on 21 march 2007 the applicant participated in the newroz (kurdish new year) celebrations held in malatya. on an unspecified date the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment charging the applicant and twenty other people with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had waved a green, yellow and red flag symbolising the pkk. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted all of the accused as charged, including the applicant. on the basis of evidence in the case file, the court found it established that one of the accused, ms n.k., had made a press statement, and the other accused, including the applicant, had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader. the court also noted that the accused had waved the so-called flag of the pkk. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 31 may 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 6 march 2008. on 21 december 2011 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 12 july 2012 the malatya assize court ordered the applicant’s release from prison in accordance with law no. 6352, which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and had amended certain provisions of law no. on 12 december 2012 the malatya assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicant’s prison sentence in accordance with provisional section 1 of law no. the suspension was for a period of three years, on the condition that he did not commit a terrorism-related offence during that period.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in istanbul. 3713), which was in force at the material time. on 31 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 1 november 2009 the applicant’s police statement was taken at the anti-terror branch of the istanbul security directorate, in the presence of his lawyer. he was questioned at length about his telephone conversations that had been intercepted. the police read out the transcripts of the said telephone conversations and asked the applicant to comment on them. he was further questioned in relation to allegations about aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation as well as his participation in several illegal demonstrations on behalf of this terrorist organisation and several incidents of assault and battery. he was further asked questions about a co‑accused’s incriminating statements. on 2 november 2009 the public prosecutor questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer. the prosecutor read out the transcripts of the intercepted conversations to the applicant. the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they were not made with the intention to plan a terrorist action. on the same day the judge at the istanbul assize court ordered his pre-trial detention. on 10 november 2009 the istanbul assize court rejected this objection. on 4 november 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision on the applicant’s detention, and requested his release. on 12 november 2009 the istanbul assize court, relying on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative, dismissed the objection without holding a hearing. on 25 november 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with aiding and abetting of a terrorist organisation, and looting. on 4 december 2009 the istanbul assize court accepted the indictment. on the same date the restriction on the file was lifted. on 26 february 2010 the applicant was released. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in tuzla. by judgment of the mostar municipal court of 18 june 2009, which became final on 16 december 2010, company r. was ordered to reinstate the applicant in his previous employment, as well as to pay him a total amount of 16,314 convertible marks (bam)[1], together with default interest calculated from 20 march 2007 until final payment. the respondent company was further ordered to pay the applicant bam 2,641 in respect of legal costs, together with default interest calculated from 18 june 2009 until final payment. lastly, the respondent company was ordered to cover all pension-related contributions in respect of the applicant between 1 january 2003 and 17 january 2007. on 17 october 2011 the municipal court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju) in this regard. on 23 february 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the municipal court amended its decision of 17 october 2011 by changing the object of enforcement. on 16 january 2012 the municipal court requested the respondent to indicate why it had not reinstated the applicant. on 23 january 2012 it fined the respondent in this connection. on 1 february 2013 the municipal court joined the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case with an earlier enforcement procedure against the respondent. on 25 june 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina found a violation of the applicant’s right to enforcement within a reasonable time, and ordered the municipal court to urgently finalise the enforcement proceedings. the constitutional court considered this to be sufficient just satisfaction and rejected the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damage. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 15 august 2014. on 18 march 2015 the municipal court ordered the sale of the respondent’s property. on 27 april 2015 it transferred the respondent’s real estate to company h., the highest ranked judgment creditor. the applicant did not lodge an appeal against this decision. on 29 march 2016 the mostar cantonal court quashed the decision of the municipal court of 27 april 2015 and remitted the case for reconsideration. according to the latest information provided by the parties on 28 july 2017, on that date the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in diyarbakır. on 15 february 2005, on the anniversary of the arrest and transfer of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk[1], to turkey, the ergani district branch of dehap organised a gathering in front of the district branch office in order to read out a press statement. the applicant read the statement in question. 2911) on account of their participation in the above-mentioned event. they were accused of participating in the gathering and carrying banners with slogans such as “the solution is in i̇mralı[2]” (“çözüm i̇mralı’da”), “solitary confinement is a crime against humanity” (“tecrit insanlık suçudur”), “not eu, not us, öcalan has the solution” (“ne ab ne abd, çözüm öcalan’da”) , “the youth is öcalan’s fedai”[3] (“gençlik apo’nun fedaisidir”), and “freedom to öcalan” (“öcalan’a özgürlük”), as well as posters of abdullah öcalan. on 5 october 2006 the ergani criminal court decided that it lacked jurisdiction to examine the case. it held that the impugned acts constituted the offence proscribed by section 7 (2) of law no. 3713 and that the accused should therefore be tried by the diyarbakır assize court. on 19 march 2007 the ergani criminal court once again decided that the diyarbakır assize court had jurisdiction over the case. on 10 august 2007 the sixth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court began the trial in the case. on 15 april 2010 the diyarbakır public prosecutor submitted to the first-instance court his observations on the merits of the case. according to those submissions, the public prosecutor considered that the applicant should be convicted under section 7 (2) of law no. 3713, as the press statement read out by him had referred to abdullah öcalan as the “honourable kurdish people’s leader”. the court based its judgment, among others, on a police report regarding the reading out of the press statement dated 15 february 2005 and a police report dated 23 february 2005 on the examination of a police video recording of the event of 15 february 2005. the court judgment read as follows:
“... it has been decided that ahmet kınık and r.a. committed the offence proscribed by section 7(2) of law no. they marched and chanted these slogans without obtaining prior permission.” the sixth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court sentenced the applicant to ten months’ imprisonment but decided to suspend the pronouncement of the judgment (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması) for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure. on 5 july 2010 the applicant objected to the decision of the assize court to suspend the pronouncement of the judgment. on 22 november 2010 the fourth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. in the article he discussed criminal proceedings which were pending against two men called maksim kosenkov and ruslan pogulyayev on charges of obtaining land by fraud. the article read as follows, in so far as relevant:
“maksim kosenkov and ruslan pogulyayev will be on trial in bryansk. they will wear you down with requests for piles of papers. however, in this case the credulous clerks easily signed the documents after accepting the fakes. as established by the prosecutor’s office, the swindlers acquired property rights in this way in respect of plots of lands which belonged to the category of indivisible state property. their market value exceeded 6,400,000 roubles. they could be doing good deeds, raising their kids. 1 remand prison in moscow] and who happily got out with a million in compensation. it looks like very few people understood that material. we shall have to shake the dust off those volumes once more. although we are talking about 66 hectares of expensive land. mr simonenko brought an action for defamation against the applicant and sought damages of 300,000 russian roubles (rub). “however, they got carried away by the example of the big bryansk thieves and failed to take into account that the latter were protected from all sides – by the powers that be, the party, relations, and so on”; 4. on 26 september 2012 the bryanskiy district court of the bryansk region dismissed the claim (“the bryanskiy district court”). it further found that the first, third and fourth sentences quoted above could not be considered as damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as he was not the only official in the bryansk administration and it was not clear from the article that the author had meant him exactly. the court also noted that the fourth sentence did not constitute an assertion and had neither a legal nor a literal meaning. furthermore, the sentence in question had not contained information about any facts but had merely expressed the author’s opinion and his suppositions. the appellate court found that the second sentence, read together with the sentence “strangely enough, citizens denin and simonenko are still at large”, constituted an assertion that mr simonenko should be punished for the offences he had committed. on 23 april 2013 the bryanskiy district court granted the claim.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. on 21 february 2008 the applicant published an article in bryanskiye budni no. a very convenient and interesting position which, most importantly, is based on principle. in fact, they both ‘dumped’ the social democrat nikolay rudenok. at present mr fedorov is at a political crossroads. sources note that he all too often takes a ‘promenade’ there in his official cars. however, it became clear later that the ‘experience’ he wanted was of a somewhat different nature ...
during the three years of his ‘parliamentary career’ the head of the committee on legislation, law and order and state service bought three cars for himself. and each one was a foreign car that was cooler than the one before ...” 8. очень удобная и интересная, а главное принципиальная позиция. фактически и один, и другой «кинули» лидера социал-демократов николая руденка. в настоящее время господин федоров на политическом распутье. баллотироваться по одномандатному избирательному округу – надо раскошеливаться, а это не в его правилах. хотя по слухам, председатель комитета по законодательству, вопросам правопорядка и государственной службы состоятельный человек, и имеет свой «маленький оптовый бизнес» в соседнем орле. and each one was a foreign car that was cooler than the one before”. on 16 september 2008 bryansk state university issued a report on the psychological and linguistic expert examination (“the expert report”). on 17 november 2008 the bryanskiy district court allowed the claim in part. in its decision the court relied heavily on the expert report. he also stated that the third quote had specified that it was based on rumours and therefore amounted to a supposition. in particular, they had portrayed him as a person who had committed the immoral and antisocial deed of using his official car for private purposes, and who had possibly even exercised an unlawful activity because members of the regional duma were prohibited from other paid duties. lastly, with regard to the fifth quote, the court again relied on the findings of the expert report, which stated that the impugned passage contained information damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as it implied antisocial conduct on his part by suggesting that he had pursued his own enrichment instead of defending the interests of the public.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kramatorsk. in july 2001 a journalist, mr igor aleksandrov, was beaten to death by unknown persons in the premises of the local television company in slovyansk, which he headed. the above tragic event sparked a broad public outcry. v. was homeless and had no means of subsistence, being newly released from prison, where he had served a sentence for theft. he had assured v. that the latter would be taken care of in prison and that his term of imprisonment would be minimal. on 28 november 2004 the applicant retracted his statements of 8 november 2004 and lodged a complaint with the prosecutor general’s office, submitting that he had been coerced into self-incrimination under psychological pressure. the investigator also made a formal declaration that the case file was available for inspection by the accused and their lawyers. on 14 july 2005 the applicant was given access to the case file. on 5 august 2005 the kyiv city court of appeal (“the kyiv court”) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to twenty months (until 10 october 2005) on the grounds that the applicant and his lawyers had not finished studying the case file, which consisted of over a hundred volumes. on 28 april 2006 the case file was sent to the supreme court for it to determine the court which would conduct the trial. on 18 june 2008 the trial court allowed a request by the prosecutor for the charge regarding b.’s murder to be severed into a separate set of proceedings. the remaining charges against the applicant, in respect of which the zaporizhzhya court continued his trial, concerned several counts of kidnapping and murder, as well as abuse of office on account of his having sold the evidence. he was sentenced to five years and nine days’ imprisonment. given that the applicant had already served that term, he was released in the court room. the criminal case was remitted for fresh examination by a first-instance court. the fate of v. was described with a lot of emotion. the above-mentioned programme was transmitted on stb at least twelve times between 2005 and 2008, and possibly later. on 30 january 2012 a dermatologist and a psychiatrist examined the applicant in the lugansk sizo and reported the absence of any acute health concerns. according to the applicant, he was not hospitalised. on 24 january 2013 the applicant was released (see paragraph 40 above).
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in klaipėda. by the coat, shaken him and told him to leave the building. had screamed for his wife to call the police and had eventually lost consciousness. had entered the stairwell of a residential building in their neighbourhood to get warm. the police also accompanied them both to the location of the incident (the stairwell) and they each showed how their claimed version of events had unfolded. was questioned as a witness and the applicant did not participate. was sentenced to one year of restriction of liberty and ordered to study or work during that period. ’s conviction and increased the award in respect of non-pecuniary damage to ltl 5,000 (approximately eur 1,450). ’s violent actions had impaired his health and had caused him physical and psychological suffering. ’s mother (the applicant) but also against a.k. was a student and did not have any income, and the applicant was unemployed. had been the one who had started the assault. could not have been held criminally liable because of his age, his actions had been established by a final court judgment. referring to the material in the criminal case file, the court considered it established that a.k. in the face, arms and head and had kicked him in the back, as a result of which v.m. neteisėtų veiksmų ir kaltės nereikia įrodinėti).” and that if he did not have sufficient assets they were to be paid by the applicant. the applicant and her son appealed against that decision, raising essentially the same arguments as those presented in their initial reply to the civil claim (see paragraph 17 above). on 28 april 2014 the klaipėda regional court dismissed the appeal lodged by the applicant and her son. the klaipėda district court’s judgment of 27 november 2012 and the klaipėda regional court’s judgment of 21 march 2013 established that unlawful actions had been committed by the defendant [a.k.]
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. by a final decision of 2 august 2010 the application was allowed in that part. enforcement proceedings were instituted and subsequently discontinued. at the same time the prosecutor instituted new court proceedings against the shopping centre, seeking to have the fire safety breaches rectified. on an unspecified date the bryansk regional court ordered the shopping centre to close temporarily. the proceedings on the merits remained pending, and a further hearing was scheduled for 27 march 2012. on 23 march 2012 the regnum centre news portal published an article on its website about the temporary closure of the tymoshkovykh shopping centre due to breaches of fire safety rules. on 27 march 2012 the bnews32.ru news portal published an article about a court order to close the shopping centre. the news portal reported that as the court hearing had taken place after the meeting, mr timoshkov had been outraged by the decision and had said as follows: “in my opinion, which is shared by officials at the ministry of emergency situations and deputy governor klimov, there is no threat to people’s safety. i do not know why [the court delivered] such a decision. that means that before 27 april the building may be closed again. today the shopping centre is open as usual. however, tenants say that bailiffs might visit them again on 13 april. they were ordered to rescue their patron timoshkov, and they did so. the original russian version is given below:
“на подмогу тимошкову бросили лучшие силы. им дали команду спасать кормильца тимошкова, и они спасали. впрочем, не слишком бы и смутились, если бы все-таки сообразили, что приоткрыли свои связи. « in its decision it relied on a linguistic expert’s examination of 1 august 2012. the court dismissed the applicant’s argument that all the facts described in the article were true, whereas in the passages concerned he had expressed his opinion. on 27 november 2012 the bryansk regional court upheld the judgment.
the applicants were born in 1940 and 1950 respectively and live in the village of khasanya situated on the outskirts of nalchik, the capital of kabardino-balkaria republic, a region in the north caucasus. on several occasions − in particular, on 4 may and 8 september 2003 and again on 18 august 2004 − he had been unlawfully detained for a number of hours, had been beaten and questioned by state agents, but had then been released without charge. he was held there for about twenty hours and then released. between 8 and 8.30 p.m. on 29 september 2004 two residents of khasanya, mr a. a. and mr r.a., then he had been given some pills that he had spat out. on 19 october 2004 two hundred and forty residents of the khasanya village submitted a joint petition to the kabardino-balkaria prosecutor asking him to ensure the prosecution of the police officers who had abducted rasul tsakoyev on 27 september 2004 next to the prosecutor’s office and then tortured him until 29 september 2004, causing his death from the ill-treatment they had inflicted. on 9 october 2004 the investigators questioned rasul tsakoyev’s aunt, ms z. e., who gave a statement similar to that given by the first applicant and to the applicants’ submission before the court. they had demanded that he identify a bearded man in a photograph. on 11 october 2004 the investigators questioned mr a.a., he also stated that rasul tsakayev had alleged that he had been severely beaten by the police officers on the premises of the ubop. in addition, he stated that when he had asked the head of the ubop, officer k., whether rasul tsakoyev had been detained on their premises, the latter had replied in the negative but told him that he was suspected of aiding an illegal armed group run by a certain mr m. atabayev by supplying it with money and telephones. mr tsakoyev had told them that he had been subjected to ill-treatment at the ubop premises. on 14 october 2004 the investigators questioned mr r.n., all of them also stated that at the time officer k. was travelling a lot for work and had frequently been out of the office. during which the witnesses maintained their contradictory statements. the text of their decision included the following:
“... on 21 october 2004 the victim d. tsakoyev requested that the investigators obtain a court authorisation for the tapping of mobile telephone number 8‑928‑637‑61-27 ‒ which had belonged to rasul tsakoyev and had been lost after [his] arrest by the officers of the ubop of the kabardino-balkaria ministry of the interior ‒ obtain a detailed list of the phone calls, and take operational search steps to establish the whereabouts of mr tsakoyev’s telephone. had subsequently been questioned only about rasul tsakoyev; 3. in april 2006 the applicants applied in person to the deputy prosecutor of kabardino-balkaria, who promised to supervise the investigation personally. on 26 april 2006 the investigation was suspended again. on 21 july 2006 the investigators rejected the request and informed the applicant of their decision on 23 march 2007.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in balashikha, a town in the moscow region. became pregnant in autumn 2009, but continued to maintain regular contact. started avoiding communication with the applicant and preventing him from visiting the child. on 25 june 2012 the nagatinskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) discontinued the examination of the applicant’s claim in so far as it concerned the determination of his contact rights. on 13 november 2013 the district court left unexamined the applicant’s claims in view of new proceedings instituted by the applicant (see below). on 24 january 2014 the district court ordered that a.k. on 28 july 2014 the city court upheld the judgment of 24 january 2014 following an appeal by a.d. to carry out or to abstain from certain actions. on 17 august and 24 august 2015 the bailiff telephoned a.d. ’s telephone number, but nobody answered. on 14 february 2016 a bailiff visited a.d. ’s mother, to whom the bailiff handed a notice of enforcement of the judgment of 24 january 2014. she told the bailiff that she was unaware of her daughter’s whereabouts and that a.d. 1457 in moscow, the moscow city children’s polyclinic no. according to the government, on an unspecified date the bailiff imposed an execution fee on a.d. on 29 april 2016 the bailiff obtained a.d. meanwhile, at the applicant’s request, in june 2016 the inter-district department of bailiffs appointed another bailiff to oversee the enforcement proceedings. subsequently, the applicant tried to see his daughter on 12 february and 4 march 2017 (the second sunday and the first saturday of the month respectively); he was unaccompanied by the bailiff. prevented the applicant from seeing the child; on the second occasion neither she nor the child were present at their place of residence at the scheduled time. on 12 march 2017 the applicant again came to see his daughter; this time he was accompanied by a bailiff.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in zagreb. soon afterwards the area in which the building was located attracted the interest of real-estate investors, and many residential and commercial buildings were built there. there is no information to indicate that any further investigative steps have been taken. she feared that something suspicious was happening. reported to the police that a certain m.b. however, he denied threatening or otherwise harassing them. on 25 december 2010 the applicant informed the police that somebody was trying to break into the premises in which the fire had broken out few days earlier. who had threatened her since she had refused to move out of the building. she also explained how, following the fire of 22 december 2010, she and her husband had found a lighter of the same type as the one found after the fire of 4 january 2011. that evening the fire had broken out in the abandoned retail store. according to the note of her interview, the applicant also stated that she had heard that a certain person, who at the time of the fire in g.k. ’s flat had been carrying out some work there, had been dangerous and had participated in an incident of arson. who according to the applicant had become the owner of the building on 21 december 2010) and ma.be.[2] had been behind the fires on 22 december 2010 and 4 january 2011. he also stated that he had started negotiating with the tenants through a lawyer about the possibility of their removal from the building. in the meantime, on 28 february 2011 the applicant signed a contract with l.č., she also stated that she had talked to d.v., on 3 june 2013 the police interviewed o.č., on 9 november 2013 the police informed the state attorney’s office of the applicant’s complaints, and the state attorney’s office requested that a further interview be conducted with o.č. he denied making any threats against the applicant but argued that she had harassed and threatened him over the debt, which he considered did not exist. and the events leading to her forceful removal from her flat.
the applicants are owners of residential buildings or apartments which were subject to the rent control system. 37926/05 and 4 others, §§ 123-127, 3 july 2014). one flat in the building was rented under the rent control system. on 30 may 2005 the court decided that j.m. had concealed the fact that her then-husband owned another flat. in a judgment of 5 may 2011 the district court dismissed the co-owners’ action, stating that the tenant had not been obliged to disclose her then husband’s ownership in the earlier proceedings and that the landlords could therefore not claim damages in this respect. 107/2006 on the deregulation of rents had entered into force. the courts could not, therefore, determine the rent retroactively. in a separate judgment given on the same date, the district court, after the co-owners had brought an action for payment of czk 75,292 (eur 2,964) against the tenant (and subsequently also against the state), ordered the tenant to pay czk 60 (eur 2.36) to the landlords. on 21 september 2011 the municipal court upheld on appeal this judgment in respect of the tenant but quashed it in respect of the state on the grounds that the publication of the plenary opinion in 2009[1] should have been taken into account for the calculation of the beginning of the three-year statutory limitation period under section 32(1) of the state liability act. it therefore advised the applicant to bring a separate action for damages. on 20 november 2012 the constitutional court dismissed a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant as manifestly ill-founded. the applicant is the co-owner of a tenement building in prague in which nine out of eleven flats were rented under the rent control system. on 7 october 2004 he brought an action against the state, represented by the ministry of finance, for damages in the amount of czk 772,524 (eur 30,414), corresponding to the difference between the regulated rent and the market rent in the locality in question for the period from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2003. it endorsed the assessment of the first-instance court as to the inapplicability of the state liability act. on 27 june 2012 the municipal court reduced on appeal the damages awarded to the applicant to czk 40,980 (eur 1,613). the supreme court reiterated its previous case-law, in particular judgment no. nevertheless, the amount awarded must have been .proportional. he specifically complained that he had not been compensated for his legal costs. it held in this regard that the severity of the restriction of the applicant’s right to property should have been duly examined.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in županja. on 5 july 2011 the applicant was indicted before the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of causing a road accident under article 272 of the criminal code. the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). on 4 may 2012 the zagreb municipal criminal court convicted the applicant as charged and gave him a suspended sentence of four months’ imprisonment with two years’ probation. on 23 may 2012 the applicant appealed against his conviction and asked to be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 15 january 2013 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu), without informing the applicant or his lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing. it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining, inter alia, that he had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. that decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 4 october 2013.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1970 respectively, and live in odessa. her mother, n., was its director and owner. on 23 july 2001 the odessa prymorskyy district prosecutor’s office (“the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office”) opened a criminal case against the officials of company y. on suspicion of forgery of quality certificates for the company’s goods. there was an altercation between the first applicant and the police: she attempted to leave, but several officers stopped her when she was already in her car, dragged her out and handcuffed her (see paragraphs 16, 31, 35 and 38 below for additional factual details). furthermore, a medical examination of the first applicant of 25 july 2001 had documented in particular an abrasion below her right eye, a bruise on her chest and a bruise on her left thigh. as confirmed by a postal receipt, the first applicant sent the above complaint on 3 january 2002 and the court received it on 4 january 2002. in accordance with the relevant procedure, she had submitted the appeal via the court’s registry and the registry had been responsible for forwarding it to the appellate court. however, the clerk who had registered it had been dismissed in february 2003. on 26 april 2005 the first applicant again challenged the prosecutor’s ruling of 20 december 2001 before the suvorivskyy court. the case file does not contain any further information in that regard. another officer had abrasions on his face and right arm possibly resulting from being scratched with fingernails. on 23 september 2004 the president of the odessa regional court of appeal acknowledged the excessive length of the criminal proceedings against the first applicant in a letter sent to her following her complaints in that regard. on 28 july 2005 the suvorivskyy court acquitted the first applicant. the court also lifted the preventive measure in respect of the first applicant. it further stated that the police officers had had no order to prevent anybody from leaving the company’s premises and that their violence towards the first applicant had been unlawful and arbitrary. apparently, the appellate court was not aware of the ruling of 14 february 2002. on 18 june 2002 the second applicant applied to the higher commercial court for a review of its ruling of 29 may 2002 on the basis of newly discovered circumstances, namely the prymorskyy court’s decision of 24 may 2002 recognising that the criminal investigation against the company y. officials had been unlawful (see paragraph 11 above). on 25 november 2002 the odessa commercial court of appeal quashed the higher commercial court’s ruling of 29 may 2002. it held that the impugned seizure had taken place within the criminal proceedings, whose institution had been recognised as unlawful. furthermore, the police had had no procedural documents authorising them to seize the goods in question.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in zagreb. she gave birth to her first three children in hospital. in 2011 she became pregnant with her fourth child and had a due date in february 2012. she explained that her first three hospital deliveries had gone normally, without the need for much medical intervention, but that she had not felt fulfilled afterwards. she therefore wanted to give birth to her fourth child at home. therefore, since the matter was not clearly regulated, no midwife had set up a private practice or officially assisted with home births. it noted that home births nevertheless occurred in croatia, and for that reason it had urged the ministry of health to clearly regulate the matter as soon as possible. on 15 february 2012 the applicant gave birth to her child at home, assisted by a midwife from abroad. after the birth a paediatrician and a gynaecologist allegedly declined to examine the applicant and her baby but she eventually managed to find doctors who examined them both. on 23 february 2012 the applicant registered the birth and obtained a birth certificate. on 11 may 2011 the ministry of health sent a letter in reply to an enquiry from the ombudswoman for children (pravobraniteljica za djecu), which stated that the relevant domestic law provided that babies were to be delivered in medical facilities. in the event of a delivery outside a medical facility and where a woman claiming to be the mother did not have any medical documentation, the doctor carrying out the first examination of the child was obliged to make note of the absence of such documents. the doctor was not allowed to register data which he or she was not able to verify. the medical documentation required for proving such circumstances was a matter for the health administration authorities. on 31 may 2012 the ministry of health replied to an enquiry from parents in action – roda ngo by saying that it had never instructed doctors not to examine children born at home. on the contrary, having regard to the increased frequency of situations in which doctors were faced with having to examine children born at home without any medical documentation, it had consistently held that doctors were obliged to examine such children but were not allowed to register any data that they were not able to verify. it added that home birth was still not regulated by law and that therefore there was no mechanism for registering requests for home birth or regulations on the duty to report them. on 24 january 2012 the croatian chamber of midwives reported on a case in which, according to the media coverage, a woman who had given birth at home had been separated from her child for two days. according to information submitted by the government, no health professional has ever been prosecuted in criminal proceedings or sanctioned for assisting with a home birth. a survey on maternity practices in croatia undertaken by the parents in action - roda ngo in march 2015 noted situations of women’s wishes being disregarded by medical staff during childbirth, of a lack of consent for procedures conducted during labour, and limits on the presence of an accompanying person during childbirth.
on 21 november 2016 the civil and criminal court (tribunale civile e penale) of rome decided to issue a warrant for the applicant’s arrest, as he was suspected of tax evasion, money laundering, embezzlement and membership of a transnational criminal organisation. in addition, the applicant’s blood pressure was too high. he was prescribed medication, and after a few days the applicant’s blood pressure had sufficiently decreased. the doctor concluded that there were no medical impediments to the applicant’s detention. in his opinion, his fragile state of health and considerable business interests in sint maarten opposed (a continuation of) his detention. on 20 december 2016 the sint maarten prosecution authorities apparently decided to transfer the applicant from sint maarten to curaçao, another country within the kingdom of the netherlands. the applicant filed an appeal against that decision with the joint court. it noted that the applicant had not established that he was unable to receive adequate medical care in detention or that his business interests were at risk. no further appeal lay against that decision. on 22 february 2017 the joint court accepted the applicant’s appeal against the decision of 20 december 2016 to transfer him to curaçao. lastly, the joint court saw no reason to grant the applicant bail. on this point, he submitted that for three months he had been staying in a cell measuring 16 square metres which he often had to share with five or sometimes even six other persons. furthermore, the cells were dark and unhygienic and there was a foul smell. the applicant could be transferred to curaçao, where the conditions of detention were better, but the applicant had opposed such a transfer. the joint court further noted that on two previous occasions it had considered and rejected requests filed by the applicant to suspend or terminate his detention, and it found no substantial change of (personal) circumstances warranting a different finding as regards the applicant’s deprivation of liberty. it also took into account that, in reply to an explicit question it had put to him about a possible voluntary transfer to curaçao, the applicant had indicated that this was not an option for him. in addition, he found that the scar caused by the surgical removal of the malignancy on the applicant’s tongue could give cause for concern, and recommended that the applicant be seen by a specialist as soon as possible. on 20 june 2017, following a hearing held on 16 may 2017, the joint court declared the applicant’s extradition permissible on the basis of the facts as set out in the decision of 21 november 2016 of the civil and criminal court of rome, facts which also constituted criminal offences under the laws of sint maarten. on 4 august 2017, after the applicant had withdrawn his appeal in cassation on 21 july 2017 without indicating any specific reason, the governor of sint maarten approved the applicant’s extradition. on 16 august 2017 the applicant was extradited to italy.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in kazan. in 1969 the shumelka river in tveretinovka, republic of tatarstan, was dammed and an artificial lake was created. the original owner of the plot of land that contained the lake was a state fur farm. in 2003 the fur farm sold the plot of land and the lake to a private limited liability company through a public sale by tender. the new owner’s title to the plot of land was registered in the state land register. on 5 may 2008 the company sold the land to the applicant through a public sale by tender. the applicant’s title to the plot of land was registered in the state land register and on 28 june 2008 the applicant was issued with the relevant certificate. on 18 october 2011, following bankruptcy proceedings, the limited liability company was de-registered as a legal entity. on 29 march 2012 the regional agency for management of state property brought a civil action against the applicant, seeking to reclaim the plot of land and the lake. the court noted that, pursuant to the applicable legislation, the lake could not be owned by a private entity or a person and should be returned to the state. the court further noted that the public sale by tender in 2008 had been conducted in contravention of certain regulations (in particular, the announcement concerning the sale had not been published in the newspapers indicated in the state-approved list) and refused to apply the three-year statute of limitations to the agency’s claims. on 5 july 2012 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan quashed the judgment of 5 may 2012 on appeal and rejected the claims in full. the court considered that the district court had erred in the interpretation of the applicable legislation and that the plot of land with the lake could be owned by a private party. in this connection the court referred to the fact that (1) the state had been aware that the contested property had left its possession back in 2003 when the plot of land had been sold by the state farm to a private company and the new owner’s title to the property had been registered in the state land register and (2) the state had been aware that the applicant had owned the plot of land since 2008 when the applicant’s title to the property had been registered in the state land register. on 14 september 2012 the supreme court referred the matter for a review of points of law. it rejected the applicant’s request to apply the statute of limitations, considering that the agency had learnt about the infringement of the state’s rights in respect of the plot of land only in 2012 after receiving a letter from the federal water resources agency (федеральное агентство водных ресурсов россии). on 22 february 2013 the plot of land was registered as federal property in the state land register. on an unspecified date the applicant challenged the imposition of a fine on her in 2011 as the owner of the plot of land. she claimed that she had not been the owner of the plot of land. on 19 april 2013 the vakhitovskiy district court of kazan dismissed the applicant’s claims.
on 17 april 1936 the government of the union of soviet socialist republics (“the ussr”) entrusted the management of the network of recreational facilities for workers in the ussr to the union-wide central council of trade unions (“the union-wide council”), the central authority for the ussr’s official state-controlled trade unions. on 6 october 1990 the xv congress of trade unions of the ukrainian ssr adopted a decision whereby it transformed itself into the first founding congress of independent trade unions of ukraine. the federation was also declared the republican council’s legal successor. on 23 december 1991 the local authorities registered upo. by a resolution of 4 march 1992 on the implementation of the law of ukraine on privatisation of property of state enterprises, the parliament of ukraine repealed the resolution of 29 november 1990 and instructed the cabinet of ministers of ukraine to draw up, by 15 march 1992, a list of enterprises which had concluded contracts whereby title to state property had been transferred, in breach of the 1990 moratorium. 137/7), the higher arbitration court of ukraine (“the hacu”; in 2001 renamed “the higher commercial court of ukraine”, “the hccu”) rejected the claim. since the assets had not been transferred to the union-wide council, they were not covered by those resolutions. accordingly, upo had been founded lawfully, there was no basis for annulling its founding documents and the spfu’s allegation that it was the managing authority of upo’s assets was at odds with the law and the circumstances of the case. they had not been in the union-wide council’s use and were not, therefore, covered by the resolution of 10 april 1992. by a decision of 22 november 2007, which is available to the public, the supreme court of ukraine refused to allow a request submitted by the prosecutor general for a review of the decision of 17 june 1997. the supreme court did not provide the details of its decision. their price under the contract was 1,915,200 ukrainian hryvnias[1] (uah). the 2002 contract had thus breached state interests. lastly, the court rejected the prosecutor’s argument that the resolutions of 10 april 1992 and 4 february 1994 had been breached, holding that they were inapplicable in the present case, as they concerned property owned by civic organisations of the former soviet union (including trade unions), whereas the disputed property had not been transferred from the state (that is to say, trade unions had never gained title to the property). on 1 april 2014 the kyiv commercial court of appeal quashed the judgment of 19 september 2011 and found for the applicant, stating that there were no legal grounds to conclude that the disputed premises belonged to the state. upo had therefore become the owner of property transferred to it. on 4 february 2015 the supreme court rejected its request. accordingly, there had been no legal grounds for the federation to dispose of the property of union-wide civic organisations. on 2 april 2018 relevant changes were entered in the register of ownership rights to real estate. as it appears from the decision of 1 february 2018, the representatives of the state did not object to that postponement.
the applicants are a family comprising the husband and wife (the first and second applicants) and their child (the third applicant). they were born in 1976, 1978 and 2001 respectively and live in kayseri. on 9 august 2001, the second applicant was admitted to a state hospital in niğde. she gave birth to the third applicant who has irreversible injuries caused by an intervention performed by that hospital’s medical staff during labor. in their report of 12 may 2004, the forensic medicine institute concluded that the two members of the medical staff who tended to the labor were equally and solely at fault for the third applicant’s injuries. on 1 december 2004, the first and second applicants on their own and on behalf of the third applicant, submitted a claim to the ministry of health for compensation arising from the third applicant’s injuries. following the tacit dismissal of the claim by the administrative authorities, the applicants brought an action for damages before the konya administrative court on 2 february 2005. they claimed 30,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 100,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. in the course of the proceedings, the domestic court decided proprio motu to seek an expert report to determine the amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicants. in his report submitted on 14 june 2006 to the court, the expert assessed the amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicants to have been try 194,916. on 27 june 2006, the applicants requested to increase the amount of their claim for pecuniary damage in the light of the expert report. on 6 july 2006 the court ruled in favour of the applicants and awarded them the full amount of their initial claims in respect of pecuniary damage, namely try 30,000 plus interest running from the date of lodging their claims with the ministry of health. it further awarded them a total of try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and interest running from the date of the lawsuit. the applicants’ request to increase their claim for pecuniary damage were dismissed by the court which considered itself bound by the initial claim indicated by the applicants when they lodged their case. the applicants’ ensuing appeals were dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 16 june 2009 and 28 december 2010 respectively. on 22 january 2010, the ministry of health paid the applicants a total of try 144,144. approximately try 53,830 of that sum represented statutory interest accrued on the principal judgment award.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was a member of the socialist democracy party (sosyalist demokrasi partisi). on 21 march 2007 the applicant attended the newroz (kurdish new year) celebrations in adana, where he made a speech on behalf of his political party. according to a report prepared on the same day by the police, in his speech the applicant stated that the military forces should comply with the ceasefire declared by the pkk and that a general amnesty should be declared. he contended that people were being detained for referring to abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, as “sayın (esteemed) öcalan” whereas the prime minister also referred to him as “sayın öcalan”. the applicant further stated that abdullah öcalan should not be kept in isolation in prison and that independent doctors should visit him. he lastly made the following statement:
“do not fire but talk for resolving the kurdish issue”. the police report of 21 march 2007 further stated that subsequent to the applicant’s speech, songs with kurdish lyrics were played and some demonstrators waved pkk flags. on 6 april 2007 the adana public prosecutor asked two experts to prepare a report on the police video recordings of the celebrations of 21 march 2007. according to the report dated 16 april 2007 prepared by two persons, the demonstrators chanted certain slogans and waved flags and posters of abdullah öcalan from time to time during the celebrations. on 18 april 2007 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the adana assize court charging the applicant with membership of the pkk[1] under articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 2 of the criminal code on account of his participation in the demonstration of 21 march 2007 and of the content of his speech. he relied on the police report of 21 march 2007, the police video recordings of the newroz celebrations and the expert report dated 16 april 2007. on an unspecified date the adana public prosecutor amended the charges against the applicant and asked the adana assize court to convict him of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under the aforementioned provision and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment. the court considered, on the basis of the police report of 21 march 2007 and the expert report of 16 april 2007, that the applicant’s statements had constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk and that the crowd had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk after having listened the applicant’s speech. on 19 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008. on 11 january 2012 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 29 may 2012 the adana assize court granted the applicant early conditional release starting from 3 june 2012.
the applicants were born in 1949 and 1950, respectively, and lived in podgorica, where the second applicant still lives. on 25 july 2000 the applicants’ mother instituted civil proceedings against podgorička banka societe generale group ad podgorica (hereinafter “respondent”) seeking the payment of her savings, which she had deposited with the respondent’s legal predecessor titogradska osnovna banka titograd. on an unspecified date the applicants continued the above-mentioned proceedings in their mother’s stead as she had passed away in the meantime. on 25 july 2008 the first instance court in podgorica ruled partly in favour of the applicants. on 19 january 2010 the high court in podgorica reversed the first‑instance judgment by dismissing the applicants’ claims in their entirety. this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 october 2010. on 5 december 2010 the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicants. on 3 february 2011 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 12 april 2012 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal, which decision was served on the applicants on 29 may 2012.
under article 6 § 1 of the convention the applicants complained of the excessive length of enforcement proceedings. the circumstances of the cases as presented by the parties may be summarized as follows. between 18 december 2000 and 16 april 2003, the first, second, third and fourth applicants lodged separate civil complaints with the čačak municipal court (opštinski sud u čačku) against the same socially owned‑company, akcionarsko društvo fabrika reznog alata čačak, requesting the payment of salary related damages. on 26 december 2007, the čačak municipal court ruled in favour of the applicants. in the absence of an appeal, this judgment subsequently became final. on 27 august 2003 the sixth applicant lodged her civil complaint with the čačak municipal court against akcionarsko društvo fabrika reznog alata čačak requesting the payment of salary related damages. on 24 april 2008 the čačak municipal court ruled in favour of the sixth applicant. on 29 october 2008 the čačak district court upheld this judgment on appeal. on 9 april 2009 the seventh applicant lodged an enforcement request which was accepted by čačak municipal court on 4 february 2010. since the judgment rendered in favour of the applicants remained unenforced, on 24 february 2014, the sixth and the seventh applicants and on 19 may 2014, the first, second, third, fourth and fifth applicants, lodged their appeals with the constitutional court. in so doing, the applicants complained about the length of enforcement proceedings in question and the ultimate non-enforcement. pursuant to the amendments to court organization act (zakon o izmenama i dopunama zakona o uređenju sudova; published in the official gazette of the republic of serbia, no. on 11 february 2015 the applicants complained to the supreme court of cassation claiming that the compensation awarded was too low and, accordingly, inadequate for the violation found. on 26 march 2015 the supreme court of cassation rejected the applicants’ appeals. it also ordered to the čačak court of first instance to speed up the proceedings and enforce the judgment. her appeal, however, was rejected on 22 april 2015. on 2 december 2014 the čačak high court found that the sixth applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded her eur 300 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings. his appeal to the supreme court of cassation concerning the amount of the compensation awarded was rejected on 19 may 2015. between 3 august 2015 and 30 december 2015 all applicants lodged new appeals with the constitutional court. however, the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ complaints concerning the insufficient redress as regards the violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time since it considered the awards given by the domestic courts as reasonable compensation for the violations found.
the applicants were born in 1957 and 1981 and live in diyarbakır and adana respectively. on 17 august 2006 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with adana magistrate’s court charging the applicants and five other persons with praising an offence and an offender under article 215 of the criminal code. the public prosecutor alleged that the applicants had signed a petition in september 2005 which had been drafted in order to be sent to several institutions. the petition read as follows:
“as a person from kurdistan, i consider and accept mr/esteemed abdullah öcalan of kurdistan as a political actor. on 19 january 2007 the adana magistrate’s court decided that it lacked jurisdiction in the case due to the possibility of application of section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) proscribing disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. the court then sent the file to adana assize court. on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 and sentenced them each to two years’ imprisonment. in its judgment, the first-instance court found it established that the above-mentioned petition had been prepared for the purpose of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and its leader and that by signing that petition the applicants had committed the offence proscribed in section 7(2) of law no. on 13 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008. on 24 august 2011 the court of cassation’s judgment was deposited with the first instance court’s registry. on an unspecified date the second applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 19 october 2012 the adana assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicants’ prison sentence in accordance with law no. 6352 which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and which had amended certain provisions of law no. the suspension was for a period of three years, on condition that they did not commit an offence through the press, media or other methods of expressing ideas and opinions.
the first applicant (mr aristov) was born in 1986 and lives in moscow. the second applicant (mr gromov) was born in 1983 and lives in moscow region. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, 5 january 2016), and yaroslav belousov v. russia (nos. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. it took them about two hours to clear the protestors from the square. they were arrested at the venue of the event and brought to the police stations where they were charged with administrative offences. the applicant did not resist the police officers, who gave no orders during his arrest. he applied to have the two police officers who had arrested him examined as witnesses. this application was rejected in order to expedite the proceedings. the court dismissed as unreliable the testimony of defence witnesses, who stated that he had not chanted any slogans in their presence and had not participated in breaking the cordon. on 22 may 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow examined the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of 7 may 2012. relying on the reports and written statements of the police officers, the district court upheld the first‑instance judgment. according to the second applicant, on 6 may 2012 at 4 p.m. he came to bolotnaya square to participate in the authorised demonstration. according to the government, the second applicant was arrested at 8.10 p.m. at the bolotnaya square on 6 may 2012 because he was participating in breaking the police cordon and he had disregarded the police order to cease these acts and disperse. at the police station an on-duty officer drew up a record of his administrative escort at 9.10 p.m. for the purpose of compiling an administrative-offence record. the second applicant was accused of having disobeyed a lawful order of the police, an offence under article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences. on 14 august 2012 the justice of the peace of court circuit no. as he had not reacted to multiple demands to stop, he had been arrested together with other participants following the radio communication order. the town court dismissed the applicant’s allegations and considered that the statements of d. and s. about the applicant’s failure to obey their lawful demands to stop marching after the end of the event had been trustworthy.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1978 respectively and live in tikhoretsk, krasnodar region. k. and r. those officers established that b. could have been involved in the crime. he denied having been involved in the crime. according to the applicant, he complained to the investigator that the police officers had subjected him to violence in order to coerce him into giving a confession but that he had received no response. on 23 january 2005 the tikhoretsk town court ordered that the applicant be detained on remand. in may 2005 the applicant’s mother complained to the krasnodar regional prosecutor’s office (“the regional prosecutor’s office) that o. had used unlawful investigation methods. the applicant’s lawyer in a record dated 25 may 2005 noting his being granted access to the case file, stated, inter alia, that the applicant’s involvement in the crime had not been proven as the prosecution case had been based, inter alia, on the second applicant’s confession, which he had subsequently retracted as having been given under coercion. a gas mask was put over his head and his access to air was blocked. thereafter the police officers handcuffed him to a ladder at the police station. the applicant’s lawyer, d., stated in a record dated 23 may 2005 noting his being granted access to the case file that in the course of the preliminary investigation the applicant and d. had repeatedly complained that the applicant had been beaten on 26 and 27 january 2005 by police officers from the tikhoretsk police department, as a result of which he had given a statement of surrender and confession incriminating himself and his co‑accused. k. and r. had subjected him to physical and psychological pressure, as a result of which he had made a confession in relation to a crime that he had not in fact committed. he also stated that when he had been brought to o., the investigator, for questioning on 28 january 2005, he had complained about the above-mentioned ill-treatment; o. had replied that if he did not reiterate his statements he would spend another night with the police officers. and the police officers, k. and r., all of whom had denied the applicants’ allegations of ill‑treatment. a police officer who had been on duty at the ivs, according to which during the first applicant’s arrest and at his arrival at the ivs, respectively, they had heard him saying that he was suffering from a pain in the chest sustained during a fight with someone two days previously. eight further decisions taken by investigators refusing to open a criminal case between 27 march 2007 and 6 january 2008 were annulled on the grounds that they were unlawful and had been based on an incomplete inquiry. he had had a bruise on his face and had been limping. on 28 january 2005 she had gone to the tikhoretsk police department to enquire about the applicant’s whereabouts, and had been informed by o., the investigator, that the applicant was suspected of having committed a murder. between 29 november 2010 and 15 july 2015 seven more decisions not to institute criminal proceedings were taken and subsequently annulled as based on incomplete inquiries. some of the annulments followed the delivery of court decisions under article 125 of the ccrp finding refusals to institute criminal proceedings unlawful and unfounded, namely, the tikhoretsk town court’s decisions of 5 march 2011 (which was upheld by the krasnodar regional court on 13 april 2011), 1 april 2013 and 23 april 2013. the decision also mentioned other statements, in particular the following:
-  statements by sh.
the applicants were owners of plots of land. the municipal authorities reclaimed the plots of land, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. the details pertaining to each application are provided below. the applicant in this case is oleg dmitriyevich sergunin, who was born on 10 december 1967 and lives in kazan. on 13 march 2013 the privolzhskiy district court of kazan found gib. on 5 july 2013 a prosecutor acting on behalf of the local council brought an action seeking invalidation of the decision of the local council of 5 september 2009, invalidation of the applicant’s title to the plot of land and return of the plot of land to the municipality. on 17 october 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. on 23 january 2014 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan upheld the judgment of 17 october 2013 on appeal. on 14 april 2014 the supreme court rejected an appeal on points of law by the applicant. on 3 december 2009 the applicant bought a plot of land and a share in another plot of land in sloboda solomintsy, kirov, from s. and t. respectively. the state land registry verified the legitimacy of the transaction and registered the applicant’s title to the plots of land. on an unspecified date the district prosecutor brought an action on behalf of the kirov city council with the aim of reclaiming the real property. on 14 may 2014 the novovyatskiy district court of kirov delivered two judgments, allowing the prosecutor’s claims in full. the court recognised the town’s title to the plots of land and ordered their transfer to the town administration. on 15 and 23 july 2014 the kirov regional court upheld the judgments of 14 may 2014 on appeal. on 22 august the regional court dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant against the above judgments. on 11 march 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation dismissed a second appeal on points law lodged by the applicant against the judgments of 14 may and 15 june 2015. the applicant in this case is sergey vasilyevich prokudin who was born on 19 october 1958 and lives in kirov. and r. had been forged and could not have served as a legal basis for the transactions in respect of the plots of land. the court recognised the city’s title to the plots of land and ordered their transfer to the council.
the applicant was born in 1972 and now lives in odessa, ukraine. on 31 january 2014 the applicant sold a plot of land and a summer cottage in the moscow region for 4,600,000 russian roubles (rub). on 20 february 2014 he exchanged rub 3,605,000 for 100,000 united states dollars (usd). on 19 march 2014 the applicant travelled to odessa from domodedovo airport in moscow. he was carrying the entire usd 100,000 in his handbag. at the security check, his hand luggage was x-rayed. an officer asked him whether he was carrying any cash. the applicant acknowledged that he had money in his handbag and showed it to the officer. the applicant was subsequently interviewed by a police officer and an investigator on suspicion of smuggling foreign currency. he insisted on the lawful origin of the money and claimed that he had erroneously believed that the customs control would take place after the security check. on 18 april 2014 the investigator refused to initiate criminal proceedings because it could not be established that the applicant had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations. on 6 june 2014 the federal customs service prepared a report on a regulatory customs offence under article 16.4 of the code of administrative offences. the applicant was charged for his failure to make a written declaration in respect of the usd 100,000 he had been carrying on him. a hearing was held on 18 december 2014 before a justice of the peace in the domodedovo district of the moscow region. the court held that the customs report and statements the applicant had given to the police were sufficient evidence of the offence. it was legally irrelevant whether he had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations or negligently failed to abide by the applicable declaration requirements. the court issued a confiscation order for usd 90,000, reasoning as follows:
“when deciding on the punishment, the court takes into account the nature and gravity of the offence which is connected to the operation of a hazardous device, the information on the character of mr gyrlyan, who has no previous record of similar offences, and considers it appropriate to order confiscation of the object of the administrative offence.” he pointed out that the money had been lawfully obtained and that his actions had not caused any damage to the state. an appeal on points of law was dismissed by the deputy president of the moscow regional court on 30 april 2015. he wrote that “the defence’s allegation of a formalistic approach on the part of the [lower] courts [was their] subjective opinion that [did not] shield mr gyrlyan from liability.”
the applicants, suren osmanyan, serob osmanyan, bakur osmanyan, mane osmanyan and donara amiraghyan were born in 1935, 1961, 1988, 1990 and 1966 respectively and live in teghout village. the applicants are a family of five, making their living from agriculture. in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (“teghout”) was discovered about 4 and 6 km from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the expropriation zones of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region to be taken for state needs, and changing the category of land use. in the course of the proceedings teghout cjsc submitted a corrected version of the evaluation report on the applicants’ property stating that oliver group llc had made certain corrections as a result of which the market value of the land was estimated at amd 194,000 (approximately eur 422). the final amount of compensation, together with the additional 15% required by the law, would thus be equal to amd 223,100 (approximately eur 485). the remainder of the data contained in the original report had not been changed. on 6 october 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding l. and the applicants a total of amd 223,100 in compensation. on 27 february 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 2 june 2009 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the evaluation reports prepared by oliver group llc should be considered lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs and that the applicants’ request to order a forensic expert examination was groundless. also, they argued that the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination since such a necessity had arisen in the course of the proceedings and they had no possibility to provide an alternative evaluation themselves. the case was remitted to the regional court. there were four peach trees on the land in question. on 1 november 2010 the regional court ordered an additional forensic expert examination. on 17 december 2010 expert a. of “national bureau of expertise”, a state nonprofit organisation, delivered his report which estimated the market value of the applicants’ plot of land at amd 209,100 (approximately eur 450). the report also stated that the first expert report and the evaluation report by oliver group cjsc had produced quite realistic results. it relied on the corrected evaluation report prepared by oliver group cjsc and two forensic expert reports. the regional court granted the applicants amd 264,500 (approximately eur 575) by taking the highest market value of the three evaluations at its disposal and adding to that amount the additional 15% as required by law. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ostia lido. began treatment with feminising hormones as part of the gender transition process. on 9 november 2000 she applied to the rome district court on the basis of section 3 of law no. having taken note of her determination the court authorised her to undergo surgery in order to adapt her primary sexual characteristics to match her female gender identity. she argued that, given that she had been undergoing a gender transition process for several years, and in view of her physical appearance, the fact that her identity papers indicated a male forename was a constant source of humiliation and embarrassment. she also asserted that the waiting period for surgery was approximately four years. in a decision of 4 july 2001 the prefect refused the applicant’s request on the grounds that, under presidential decree no. 396 of 2000, a person’s forename had to correspond to his or her gender. on 23 july 2001 the applicant underwent mammoplasty. on 6 september 2001 she was placed on a waiting list at trieste university hospital for surgery to alter her primary sexual characteristics. on 21 february 2002 the regional administrative court refused to grant a stay of execution of the prefect’s decision. on 3 february 2003, while the proceedings before the regional administrative court were still pending on the merits, the applicant underwent an operation to change her sexual characteristics from male to female. she subsequently applied to the rome district court, on an unspecified date, for legal recognition of her gender reassignment under section 3 of law no. in a judgment of 10 october 2003 the rome district court granted the applicant’s request and ordered the savona municipal authorities to alter the indication of the applicant’s gender from male to female and to change the forename l. to s. 17. by a judgment of 6 march 2008, deposited with the registry on 17 may 2008, the regional administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the prefect’s decision of 4 july 2001. the court held that article 89 of presidential decree no. 164 of 1982 concerning changes to legal gender status. the court stressed in that regard that, under the terms of the latter, the amendment of the civil-status records of a transgender person had to be ordered by the court ruling on his or her gender reassignment. it therefore considered that the prefect had correctly refused the applicant’s request. the applicant did not appeal against that judgment.
the applicants, listed in the appendix, were all professors who at the material time were working at tbilisi state university (“the university”). on 8 june 2005 the president of georgia issued presidential decree no. without giving any explanations or any prior warning, they forced everyone out of the university building. stressed that the participants of the planned gathering were asked to maintain order and to conclude the meeting before 7 p.m. 12. the staff members (eyewitnesses to the events) all identified the applicants as being among those who had forced their way into the rector’s office, insulted him and demanded his resignation. on 24 july 2006 several members of the former grand academic council, among them the second, third, fourth, fifth and seventh applicants, sent a letter to the president of georgia complaining about the events of 19‑20 june and 3-4 july 2006. on 29 july 2006 the relevant prosecutor issued a ruling terminating the criminal proceedings concerning the alleged organisation and participation in group actions violating public order. the applicants were served with a copy of the above-mentioned ruling late in the evening of 29 july 2006. the prosecutor, for his part, requested the questioning of three of the police officers involved in the events that had developed in the rector’s office on 3 july 2006. they tried to put to the prosecutor several questions in this regard but the presiding judge dismissed the questions as irrelevant, having no bearing on the case. in reply to a question he clarified that no one had physically resisted the police, but that the protesters had simply refused to leave the office. another police officer, confirmed that while no force had been used, they had spent an hour persuading a group of about twenty people to leave the rector’s office. on the same date the court examined two members of the university staff, who gave evidence similar to their pre-trial statements (see paragraph 18 above). as well as the other staff present, and to “other similar action” that had violated public order and peace. the tbilisi city court dismissed the applicants’ argument that the rector’s office was merely a private working space, reasoning that the presence of the public rendered it a public space for the purposes of the cao. as for the charge of disobeying a lawful order given by the police, the court concluded that the sixth and ninth applicants had left the office of g.kh. the case file contains a copy of a television report by the imedi broadcasting company about the events of 3 july 2006. as was shown in imedi’s recording of the events of 3 july 2006, at least twenty people had entered the reception area of the acting rector’s office by force, in disregard of the protests of the security staff and reception staff. then some of them had walked into the office itself, notifying g.kh. of the decision of the grand academic council and demanding his resignation.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bucharest. during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest, on 21 december 1989, the applicant suffered injuries caused by impingement and compression, as a result of which she needed 50 days of medical care, her life not being imperilled. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened, of its own motion, several investigations into the ill-treatment and injuries suffered by those participating in the events of december 1989. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. as regards the applicant, an investigation was opened under a separate file and she gave a statement as a witness on 23 june 1994. her case has been further examined at a later date in the main criminal investigation. the most important procedural steps were described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011), and also in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. 889/15 and 38 others, §§ 8-11, 5 june 2018). subsequent relevant domestic decisions are referred to below. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaint regarding the offence of attempted homicide committed against the applicant was statute-barred. this decision was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation under file no. 11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances. up to february 2017 further steps were taken to gather information from domestic authorities: the prosecutor’s office contacted 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of the events, planning the hearing of military officers and other participants in the events, and verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television. at the date of the latest information available to the court (see sidea and others, cited above, § 11), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in vilnius. on 17 april 2009 the applicant was officially notified that she was suspected of having organised the embezzlement of property of high value. on 7 may 2009 the applicant was charged with the relevant offences. on 22 july 2011 the vilnius regional court held that the legal classification of the charges against the applicant was incorrect, because the total value of the allegedly embezzled property was not high. the court reclassified the charges on the basis of a less serious offence, held that the prosecution had become time-barred and discontinued the proceedings. on 27 october 2011 the court of appeal quashed the decision and remitted the case to the vilnius regional court. after re-examining the case, on 10 june 2013 the vilnius regional court found the applicant guilty of the charges against her. she was given a fine of 12,000 lithuanian litai (ltl) (approximately 3,475 euros (eur)). she was also ordered to pay some of the damages claimed by a company, amounting to ltl 2,800 (approximately eur 810). the applicant lodged an appeal, but on 18 october 2013 the court of appeal dismissed it and upheld the lower court’s judgment in its entirety. on 7 january 2014 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the supreme court. on 17 february 2014 a selection panel of three judges refused to examine the appeal, on the basis that it did not comply with article 368 § 2 and article 369 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccp”) (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below). the chair of the selection panel, judge v.g., who had been the prosecutor in the case against the applicant before the first-instance and the appellate courts. the supreme court consists of two divisions: civil and criminal. the criminal division has sixteen judges in it.
the first applicant company, könyv-tár kft, is a limited liability company with its registered office in budapest. the second applicant company, suli-könyv kft, is a limited liability company with its registered office in tata. the applicant companies are schoolbook distributors. the hungarian school system was entirely reorganised by a series of measures adopted in 2011 and 2012. the schools, formerly decentralised, became subject to centralised state management. the amendments came into force on 1 october 2012 and were effective from the school year starting in september 2013. the essence of the new legislation was already contained in the first amendment, published in december 2011. most of the companies dealing with the distribution of schoolbooks leased warehouses and delivery vehicles for a two-to-four-month period when performing their activities, which were predominantly seasonal in nature. besides their regular staff, ranging from three to fifty-seven employees, they employed an additional ten to thirty seasonal workers, normally students, for the compilation of schoolbook packages. larger market participants generally had their own vehicles and storage bases where they performed both retail and wholesale activities. they made continuous efforts to keep hold of their clients, the schools, by providing flexible and prompt services. the wholesale price margin was generally about 3% to 5%, and the operating profit about 1% to 5%. the first applicant, könyv-tár kft, distributed educational materials for elementary and secondary schools. in this activity, it had business relationships with some 200 publishers, sixty of them being schoolbook publishers. a description of the objectives pursued gave the following reasons for the decision:
“to strengthen the schoolbook procurer’s position through the uniform and centralised procurement of schoolbooks ... and ... to make schoolbook distribution more transparent by generating competition in a stronger position, that of the procurer.” however, in their submissions to the court, they stated that this was not an effective remedy because even if the constitutional court had repealed the new regulations, they would have needed to reinvest a significant amount of money in order to re-establish their business, and would have been unable to repair the damage they had already sustained. the constitutional court noted that subsequent legislation, act no. ccxxxii of 2013 on schoolbook supply in the national public education system, had been enacted, and had entered into force on 1 january 2014. xxxvii of 2001 on the schoolbook market entirely, including the impugned new regulations. ccxxxii of 2013 had completely removed any schoolbook distribution based on the free market, and had introduced an entirely state-organised form of schoolbook supply to the hungarian public education system.
the first applicant, mr tamašauskas, was born in 1971. the second applicant, mr radzevičius, was born in 1977. the first applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 28 september 2012 until 4 september 2014. on an unspecified date he lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he had been detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he claimed 48,493 euros (eur) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 9 january 2015 the šiauliai regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim. during those 629 days, he had between 1.72 and 16.96 sq. m, under the domestic law applicable to prison cells) might have been breached. the court also noted that parts of the cells had been occupied by furniture and that the space in which the applicant had been able to move had thus been even smaller. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s allegations that the conditions in the cells had been unsanitary on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 6 october 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety. the second applicant was detained in alytus correctional facility from 22 november 2012 until 17 september 2014. he claimed eur 16,611 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 12 october 2015 the kaunas regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim. m of personal space, and that from 11 april 2013 to 13 august 2014 he had had 3.03 sq. m of personal space, in violation of the domestic requirement of 3.1 sq. during the remainder of his detention the personal space available to the applicant had complied with the domestic requirements. however, it observed that the administration of the correctional facility had not submitted any documents refuting the applicant’s allegation that the natural light in the rooms had been insufficient, and found in the applicant’s favour. however, the court considered that the reduction in the minimum personal space available to the applicant had been minor and that it had been compensated for by his ability to move freely around the correctional facility and by the various leisure activities available there. it therefore held that the finding of a violation was sufficient, and dismissed the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damages.
the applicants were born in 1968, 1960, 1966, 1962, 1959, 1955 and 1954, respectively, and live in novi travnik and bugojno, bosnia and herzegovina. by seven judgments of the travnik municipal court and the bugojno municipal court, of 19 january 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 28 october 2011, 2 february 2009, 1 september 2009 and 9 april 2004, respectively, the applicants’ employers, two companies manufacturing weapons and military technology, were ordered to pay them various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs. the judgments became final on 24 august 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 26 november 2011, 20 august 2009, 13 october 2009 and 13 april 2005, respectively. the applicants’ winding-up petitions were rejected on 27 may 2010 and 14 february 2011, respectively, because the federal ministry of energy had refused authorisation (see paragraph 14 below). consequently, in accordance with the 2003 insolvency act, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina became liable for the debts of the applicants’ employers (see paragraph 14 below). the sarajevo municipal court issued enforcement orders on 9 november 2011, 21 february 2012, 17 april 2012, 25 april 2012, 5 july 2012, 27 march 2012 and 9 august 2012, respectively, in which the federation of bosnia and herzegovina was designated as a debtor. they were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges in the federal budget. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the competent courts that the enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. the applicants complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). ap 2892/13) the constitutional court found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention in the applicants’ cases on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour. it ordered the government of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of its debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time. although the applicants submitted a claim for non-pecuniary damages, the constitutional court did not award any compensation. on the following dates in 2017 the final judgments in the applicants’ favour were fully enforced:
(i) on 10 january 2017 in respect of mr mujo zahirović;
(ii) on 9 january 2017 in respect of ms nedžvija mandara;
(iii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr miralem mustajbegović;
(iv) on 17 january 2017 in respect of mr nihad hrnjica;
(v) on 11 january 2017 in respect of mr zijad džugum;
(vi) on 17 january 2017 in respect of ms đevada hodžić; and
(vii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr fadil pandžo. the payments made in the applicants’ favour included the reimbursement of the costs sustained for the enforcement procedure.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lived in kalvarija. according to the government, the applicant did not appeal against that decision. information with regard to unidentified corpses had been checked in order to look for similarities. by 24 june 2005 the authorities obtained information that a.g. in response to a request by the applicant of 12 june 2006, on 19 september 2006 a prosecutor granted her civil claimant (civilinis ieškovas) status in the case regarding her son’s murder. in september 2006 the prosecutor also imposed a restriction on a.g. on 22 november 2006 the court of appeal ordered a.g. ’s guilt, the appellate court nevertheless noted that the evidence corroborating his guilt on the charges of murder was very scarce to support his detention pending trial. had been charged with their murder only in 2005. had not even known that he was being sought by the authorities. for the court of appeal, there were also no grounds to hold that a.g. had no prior convictions, and had a family, two minor daughters, a permanent place of residence, and a job. the prosecutor established that the co-accused had not wanted r.a. in january 2008 the applicant asked the kaunas regional court to hear the criminal case without her being present. according to the chronology provided by the government, afterwards the trial court held eighteen hearings, when witnesses were questioned and evidence was examined. it transpires from the documents before the court that a.g. under article 105 § 2 (2 and 5) of the old criminal code (see paragraph 49 below). had absconded to avoid serving his sentence. in july 2013 the bailiff decided to suspend the enforcement proceedings until a.g. by a final ruling of 25 june 2013, the supreme court dismissed the appeals on points of law by the applicant’s daughter and by a.g.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in bucharest. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, refer to the same context and domestic criminal proceedings as those described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime, on the night of 21/22 december 1989 the applicant’s son was killed by gunfire in bucharest. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations. a main criminal investigation concerning the use of violence against civilians in bucharest and other cities was registered with the highest prosecutor’s office – the military prosecutors section − under no. in the main criminal investigation the applicant raised civil claims and asked that the perpetrators of the offence of homicide committed against her son be identified and punished. at the same time, another investigation concerning the offences of complicity in seriously aggravated homicide and complicity in attempted seriously aggravated homicide, committed against a large number of persons, including the applicant’s son, culminated in the committal for trial of public officials, members of the ruling political party, and their subsequent conviction by a final decision of the supreme court of justice of 20 april 1992. the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in the cases association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main criminal investigation, finding that the applicant’s complaint regarding the offence of homicide committed against her son was statute-barred and that a complaint concerning instigation of homicide was a matter of res judicata following the supreme court of justice’s decision of 20 april 1992 (see paragraph 8 above). the decision of 14 october 2015 was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances. according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu v. romania [committee], nos. 64752/13 and 54607/14, § 12, 3 july 2018).
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in the case of association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). all applicants were ill-treated and injured on the night of 21⁄22 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest. 30392/15 (vasu v. romania) suffered injuries that needed twenty-two days of medical care and the other two applicants were beaten by militia forces on the same occasion. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened, of its own motion, investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. at the same time, another investigation concerning the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty, illegal arrest and abusive investigation against a large number of persons, including the applicants, culminated in the committal for trial of senior military and public officials and their subsequent conviction by a decision of the supreme court of justice of 10 may 1991, which became final on 14 november 1991. it cannot be seen from the court’s decision whether the injured persons, including the applicants, participated in those proceedings (see, mutatis mutandis, bănuțoiu and ștefoglu v. romania [committee], nos. 64752/13 and 54607/14, § 7, 3 july 2018). 30365/15, hereinafter “the first applicant”), 9 march 1994 (mr traian vasu – applicant in application no. 30410/15, hereinafter “the third applicant”) not to open a separate investigation of its own motion on the grounds that the offence of improper conduct fell under a subsequently enacted amnesty law; that decision was communicated only to the third applicant on 25 september 2008. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury. further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard evidence from the applicants, who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and assault and battery, based on their ill-treatment and injuries during the events of december 1989. the second applicant gave statements as an injured party on 7 january 2000 and 23 november 2004. the third applicant raised civil claims on 25 september 2008 and requested that the persons responsible be identified and committed to stand trial. the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (cited above, §§ 12-41), and sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. no decision was adopted with respect to the injury and assault and battery complained of by the applicants. the decision of 14 october 2015 (see paragraph 11 above) was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances. according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu, cited above, § 12).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in vienna (austria). the applicant is a businessman associated with a major austrian financial and industrial group. it was situated at the same address as premises of other entities belonging to the group. in the context of this investigation, the austrian prosecution service asked their slovakian counterparts to search the above-mentioned premises and to seize documents relevant to the investigation. the search took place in 2009 and business documents and electronic storage media were seized, including from the applicant’s office, and later handed over to the austrian authorities. in a judgment of 7 december 2010 the constitutional court found that the warrant issued in slovakia for the search and seizure did not extend to the applicant and his office and that the terms of the warrant had therefore been exceeded, in violation of the applicant’s rights to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions, respect for his private life, and judicial and other legal protection. on 6 september 2011 the pps asked the law firm representing the applicant in slovakia to specify whether they were entitled to receive on his behalf the items that had meanwhile been returned by the austrian authorities. on 1 february 2012 the bratislava i district police directorate issued a decision restoring those items to the applicant, identifying them as six specific units of electronic storage media. accordingly, he had had no possibility of being present in person. moreover, it was protected from seizure by lawyer-client privilege. lastly, the applicant argued that the austrian authorities knew about the items they had asked to be seized again exclusively from the results of their unlawful initial seizure. all the complaints were dismissed, of which the applicant and his lawyer were ultimately informed by letters of the office of the prosecutor general of 10 august and 31 december 2012. the reasons given were as follows:
all the seized items, of which the applicant was unquestionably the owner, had been returned to him. there was no duty to return all of the items at once. as the applicant had authorised a lawyer to receive on his behalf the items to be returned to him, it had been apparent that he had had no intention of participating personally in the dealings with the pps. had he manifested any wish to do so, this would have been taken into account. accordingly, he could not complain of being unable to defend his rights and interests adequately in relation to the re‑seizure. on 16 may 2013 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. in the pertinent part of its decision, it quoted extensively from the letter of the office of the prosecutor general of 31 december 2012, pointed out that its task was to review the constitutionality but not the legality as such of the challenged decisions, and found no constitutionally relevant arbitrariness or other shortcoming in the position the pps had taken in his case. on 18 april 2012 the constitutional court declared inadmissible a complaint by which the applicant’s then lawyer had challenged in his own name the re-seizure of 7 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in moscow. s. was the owner of a one-room flat located at 6-60, smolenskaya street, moscow. an unidentified person presenting a passport in the name of m. and claiming that she was s.’s sister and heir applied to g., a notary, seeking the recognition of her rights in respect of the flat. in support of her claim she submitted a copy of her birth certificate. on 18 march 2009 g. issued a certificate confirming, inter alia, m.’s title to the flat. the city authorities registered m.’s title to the flat in the state land register. on 19 may 2009 an unidentified person posing as m. sold the flat to the applicant. according to the documents submitted by the applicant, the purchase price was 6,499,999 russian roubles (rub). the city authorities registered the sale of the flat and the applicant’s title to it in the state land register. on an unspecified date the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat. it was established that the document presented to the notary as m.’s birth certificate had been forged. on 1 december 2009 the housing department brought an action seeking the transfer of the applicant’s flat to the city of moscow (“the city”). on 11 march 2010 the criminal investigation was suspended. on 27 december 2010 the presnenskiy district court of moscow allowed the housing department’s action. it reasoned that m. had died intestate with no surviving kin and that her flat should have been considered bona vacantia. it annulled the applicant’s title to the flat and ordered its transfer to the city of moscow. following an appeal by the applicant, on 14 july 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 27 december 2010. on an unspecified date the judgments of 27 december 2010 and 14 july 2011 were enforced. subsequently the city of moscow sold the flat to a private party under a social assistance scheme that permitted the buyer to pay the purchase price in instalments. on 12 october 2017 the criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat was reopened.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in sunzha, ingushetia. on 27 december 2006 the sunzhenskiy district court declared that the search of 26 december 2006 had been lawful (see paragraph 7 above). the applicant submitted that law-enforcement agents had searched his house again on 31 october 2008 and 5 january 2009. on the second occasion, the search had been conducted at 3 a.m. and the applicant and his family had been requested to present their passports. the armed men pointed the guns at them and ordered them to stand up against a wall. they used portable radios to communicate with each other. she had been unable to see the model of the fourth vehicle. on 29 october 2009 mr ibragim makhloyev underwent a medical examination which confirmed that he had sustained bodily injuries. the applicant has had no news of mr maskhud makhloyev since his abduction. an on-site investigation was conducted on the same day. on 15 november 2009 the applicant’s third son, a.m., and a daughter, r.m., on the same day the investigator in charge of the case applied for judicial authorisation of access to all call logs for the night of 28 to 29 october 2009 kept by mobile-phone providers operating in the area. on 19 november 2009 the fss informed the prosecutor’s office that they had not arrested mr maskhud makhloyev and had not carried out any special operations at the applicant’s family house (see paragraph 23 above). he had not been known for alcohol or substance abuse. it would appear that no relevant information was gathered from the inspection of the call logs. between 3 march and 15 june 2010 several of the applicant’s neighbours were questioned as witnesses. on 5 april 2010 the prosecutor’s office requested a copy of the case file and medical documentation concerning the incident of 14 august 2009 (see paragraph 12 above) from the ministry of the interior of ingushetia. it would appear that those instructions were not carried out. the applicant reiterated his previous statements and added that he did not know who had shot at his son on 14 august 2009 and for what reason. on 3 march 2010 mr ibragim makhloyev was questioned again.
the first applicant was born in 1975 and lives in moscow. the second applicant was born in 1960 and lives in irkutsk. on 20 february 2009, the first applicant, a lawyer at the time, was elected to be a member of the council of the irkutsk regional bar (“the bar”). on 24 october 2010 the members of the council conducted elections for the presidency of the bar. five members of the council voted for s. and the other five voted for the second applicant. on 25 november 2010 the second applicant issued an order appointing herself acting president of the bar. on an unspecified date a group of lawyers applied to the commercial court of the irkutsk region challenging the second applicant’s appointment. the court granted their request to enjoin the second applicant from fulfilling the functions of acting president pending the outcome of the proceedings. on 19 january 2012 the commercial court discontinued the proceedings. the final decision on the matter was taken by the supreme commercial court on 26 september 2012. on 11 february, 2 march and 5 april 2011 several members of the bar, including the applicants, lodged complaints with the president of the commercial court of the irkutsk region, to the supreme commercial court of the russian federation and to the supreme judicial qualifications board, alleging that judge r. had acted in contravention of the applicable laws on jurisdiction when she had accepted the claims concerning the second applicant’s appointment to the office of president of the bar for consideration. on an unspecified date in july 2011 the lawyers posted their complaints on the website of the president of the russian federation. they sent a copy of their complaint to the president of the supreme commercial court and to the public anticorruption committee. on 18 july 2011 the first deputy of the president of the regional commercial court informed the plaintiffs that their allegations had not been confirmed by the conducted investigation. on 27 july 2011 the president of the regional commercial court forwarded a copy of the lawyers’ complaint to the bar and the first vice‑president of the bar instituted disciplinary proceedings against the applicants. on 31 october 2011 the council of the bar disbarred the first applicant. the council concluded that (1)  the first applicant had violated the relevant legislation and the code of professional conduct for lawyers (кодекс профессиональной этики адвоката); (2)  the dissemination of information damaging the reputation and goodwill of judges and lawyers was incompatible with membership of the bar; (3)  the first applicant’s conduct had disparaged the bar and its members. on 8 december 2011 the kirovskiy district court of irkutsk dismissed a complaint lodged by the first applicant against the decision of 31 october 2011. the reasons underlying the council’s decision were identical to the one used in the first applicant’s case. on 19 april 2012 the irkutsk regional court upheld the judgment of 27 december 2011 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in yerevan. on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate, mr ter-petrosyan. the applicant was the head of mr ter‑petrosyan’s election headquarters in the town of abovyan and regularly attended the rallies. on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police, causing mass protests throughout yerevan. on 8 march 2008 the applicant was summoned to a local police station in abovyan where he was questioned about the leaflets that he had prepared and distributed among the demonstrators during the rallies. on 11 march 2008 the applicant was charged with organising mass disorder and an attempt to usurp state power. on the same date the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan (the district court) ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 8 may 2008, taking into account the nature and the gravity of the imputed offence and the severity of the punishment prescribed for it. by the same decision the district court refused the applicant’s request to be released on bail. on 14 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the investigating authority had not presented any evidence to substantiate the need for his detention. on 21 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal decided to dismiss the applicant’s appeal, holding that the fact that the applicant had been accused of a grave offence punishable by up to ten years’ imprisonment increased the probability of his evading criminal punishment. furthermore, it was unacceptable to release the applicant on bail in view of the fact that, if at large, the applicant could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit another offence, evade responsibility and punishment, and continue to breach public order. as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient to justify lifting the detention order. on 4 may, 2 july, 3 september and 30 october 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention on the same grounds, on each occasion by two months. on 19 may, 18 july, 19 september and 16 november 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeals against those decisions. on 10 december 2008 the trial court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged. on 22 june 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty of making public calls inciting a violent overthrow of the government, and imposed a two-year sentence. it further decided to absolve the applicant from serving his sentence under a general amnesty declared by the armenian parliament on 19 june 2009. the applicant was immediately released from detention.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in jrvezh. on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate. on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police. the applicant, who was present at freedom square at that time, was arrested and later charged under article 316 § 1 of the criminal code (cc) with assaulting police officers. on 4 march 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 1 may 2008, on the ground that the applicant, if at large, might abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings. on 10 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that there was no evidence to substantiate the need for his detention. he was a former high-ranking police officer and a law-abiding citizen who enjoyed trust and respect in society. on 21 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the fact that the applicant was accused of a grave offence punishable by up to ten years’ imprisonment increased the probability of his evading criminal liability and punishment and was sufficient to conclude that the applicant, if at large, might commit a new offence. as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient for lifting the detention order. on 29 april 2008 the indictment was finalised and the applicant’s case was sent to court for trial. the applicant remained in detention by virtue of article 138 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp). on 13 may 2008 the district court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged. on 11 june 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty under article 316 § 1 of the cc of assaulting police officers and sentenced him to a suspended term of one and a half years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in łatanice. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in kielce remand centre from 6 september to 4 october 2012 (28 days). the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in kielce remand centre, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m². in their observations, the government admitted that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell. however, they emphasised that the space in each cell had exceeded 2 m² per person and that the hardship caused by staying in an overcrowded cell had been compensated by adding 30 minutes to his daily walk as well as additional cultural and educational classes or sports activities. in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant, the domestic courts established that for twenty-eight days the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell (see also paragraph 13 below). regarding the conditions of detention, the domestic courts established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate. cells were equipped in compliance with the relevant law; they were properly ventilated and the toilet area had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells. on 12 august 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in overcrowded cells in various penitentiary facilities. he claimed 35,000 polish zlotys (approximately 8,750 euros) in just satisfaction. on 28 may 2014 the warsaw regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s action. it confirmed, however, that temporarily (from 6 september to 4 october 2012) the applicant had been detained in cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m², but not below 2 m². on 1 april 2015 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is currently detained in warsaw służewiec remand centre. on 26 november 2010 the applicant was arrested by the police. the court again relied on the severity of the anticipated sentence and possibly adverse consequences that the applicant’s release could have for the ongoing investigation. on 22 august 2011 the warsaw regional court again extended the applicant’s detention on remand. it listed the charges against the applicant, which included, apart from those mentioned above, battery, making a profit from prostitution of others and destroying property. it also pointed out that, while at large, the applicant might hinder the investigation concerning other members of the same gang. on 16 september 2011 a bill of indictment against the applicant and fourteen other persons was lodged with the warsaw regional court (xviii k 297/11). between 24 october 2011 and 24 october 2012 the applicant served the remaining part of the prison sentence ordered in case iii k 203/09, and from 24 october 2012 to 23 october 2013 he served a prison sentence ordered in another set of criminal proceedings against him (iii k 1027/07). in the meantime, the warsaw regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand on 13 march, 4 july and 20 september 2012. the two latter decisions were upheld by the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) on 31 july and 4 october 2012 respectively. the warsaw court of appeal extended the applicant’s detention on 4 october 2012, 15 january, 13 june and 28 october 2013, 13 march, 29 july and 30 december 2014, 25 june and 22 october 2015 and on 26 january 2016. the court relied on a high probability that the applicant and other accused had committed the offences with which they had been charged and on the complexity of the case. the court also considered that the persons accused might take actions aiming at obstructing the proper course of the proceedings, because they had known other accused, and the charges against them included being members of an armed and organised criminal gang. the relevant decisions were often phrased in general terms and no particular instances of the applicant’s conduct during the investigation or at the judicial stage was provided to substantiate the extension of detention on remand. the applicant’s appeals against those decisions were unsuccessful. his numerous requests for release, including on bail, were dismissed. on 4 march 2016 the warsaw regional court gave judgment. the applicant was convicted of multiple offences and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment and to a fine of 8,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 1,850 euros (eur)). on the same date the applicant’s detention on remand was lifted. on 12 may 2017 the warsaw court of appeal upheld that judgment in respect of the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. on 13 december 2007 bishop f. issued a press release repudiating allegations that his earlier comments had implied a degree of similarity between the scientists carrying out embryonic stem-cell research and the nazis who had performed experiments on humans. he claimed that he had never wished to imply that there had been any link between stem-cell research and the ideological and historical context of the crimes committed by the dehumanising nazi system, which should not be relativised through comparison. on 18 december 2007, the applicant issued a press release for his initiative never again! ( stammzellenforschung in deutschland)
the press release was published on the internet and handed out as leaflets. the professors appear to have forgotten that these experiments were performed in nazi times by willing doctors and scientists. the present-day research takes place at an earlier stage of human life. the professors can spin it any way they want. the fact that others were responsible for performing these contract killings does not provide moral justification for working with this ‘human material’. dr b. [name abbreviated by the court], were absolutely accurate. dr b uses embryos – people – for research purposes at the university of bonn that were murdered in israel and then sold to germany for significant sums of money. nowadays, the unborn children of people who follow the religion of moses – the jews – are murdered and sold to the ‘christian’ country of germany for research purposes, all with the blessing of both israel and germany! the comparison drawn by bishop f. was entirely justified! however, the court found that, when viewed in its entirety, the press release had exceeded the permissible bounds of abusive criticism. dr b.’s position as a doctor and scientist, this implication had been severely insulting. when examining contributions to a debate of public interest, however, there had to be a presumption in favour of freedom of speech. the regional court further found that the criterion for abusive criticism had not been met. criticism which was excessive or even aggressive in nature was not necessarily abusive. the relevant criterion was whether the main purpose of the criticism had been to defame an individual rather than to debate the relevant issue. dr b. by name had been equivalent to linking his professional conduct to the atrocities committed by the nazis.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in limay. on 24 september 2008 the société générale bank lodged a criminal complaint against a person or persons unknown for forgery, uttering forged documents, and fraud, following complaints by mr nicolas sarkozy, the then president of france, about four fraudulent payments to mobile telephone companies from his bank account for a total amount of 176 euros (eur). on 25 september 2008 the preliminary investigation was entrusted jointly to the fraud squad and the serious crime squad. on the same day mr sarkozy himself filed a criminal complaint, which was joined to the investigation. during the judicial investigation mr sarkozy applied to join the proceedings as a civil party. they were accused of having obtained 148 telephone lines, mobile telephones and the payment of subscriptions using the references of payment cards and bank accounts belonging to a third party. it held that mr sarkozy’s application to join the proceedings as a civil party was admissible on the basis of his right of access to a court, but deferred its decision on his claim for damages until the expiry of a one-month period after the end of his term as president (see article 67 of the constitution, paragraph 17 below). in a judgment of 8 january 2010 the versailles court of appeal varied the judgment and sentenced the applicant to eight months’ imprisonment. it found the applicant guilty, based on his own confessions and the statements of other defendants, together with the material discovered during searches. it is not so much the securing of equality in the factual or legal arguments which matters, but the equal opportunity, for each of the parties, to submit its own ‘arms’ and to discuss those of the other party. a fair hearing has thus been guaranteed, not only in the balance between the parties but also through the effectiveness of the adversarial debate. on the second point, many civil or criminal courts, in particular in press-related matters, have, on many occasions, admitted proceedings brought by the serving president of the republic, who in that capacity is also chair of the national legal service commission, without at any time considering that he was in any way contravening his constitutional duties.” the court of appeal further sought to ascertain whether the impartiality of the tribunal could also be called into question in the light of the theory of appearances. moreover, ... article 64 of the constitution states ... that the president is the guarantor of the judicial authority, and this provision legitimises, at the highest level of the hierarchy of legal norms – and even when the president of the republic is a party to the proceedings – his powers over the public prosecutor’s office, while also ruling out any doubt as to the independence of the judiciary ... [the applicant] cannot dispute the president’s capacity to act as an ordinary citizen. in a judgment of 10 november 2010 (bull crim., 180) the court of cassation decided not to seek a preliminary ruling on constitutionality on the following grounds:
“the question, which does not pertain to the interpretation of a constitutional provision that the constitutional court has not yet had occasion to apply, is not a new one. however, in the advocate-general’s view, the president’s power to appoint judges and prosecutors was such as to cast doubt on the objective impartiality of any private disputes to which the president might be a party during his term of office. secondly, the judgment observes that the appellant was found guilty on the basis of both his own confessions and the statements of other defendants, together with the evidence gathered during searches. the court of appeal thus rightly concluded that the principle of the equality of arms had not been infringed. ...” in a judgment of 24 january 2014 the versailles court of appeal set aside the applicant’s sentence, replacing it with a suspended term of ten months’ imprisonment.
the first applicant, mr s., was born in 1989. most of them wore uniforms throughout the day. the three applicants went to copenhagen to watch the match. the second applicant was detained from 3.50 p.m. to 11.27 p.m., a total of seven hours and thirty-seven minutes. the case was tried over three days, on 11 march, 6 september and 28 october 2010. the police were therefore prepared for it not to be the usual audience of festive danish and swedish supporters. they had received information that danish and swedish groups had planned to collaborate ... police preparations had targeted different locations in copenhagen. they had seen the first large fight between danish and swedish hooligans at around 3.40 p.m. the fight had occurred in the central part of strøget, the pedestrian shopping street, outside bar d, where the swedish group had settled down. this intelligence had been collected by police officers in the home towns of these clubs. it was a group of about fifty to sixty danish fans altogether. among the people they had seen were [the first and second applicants]. [ they had received reports that swedes and danes were to meet and fight. he and his colleagues had followed the group and reported back to the control room. the witness] had written a report on the detentions a couple of hours later. when the group from the bar was being guided into the side street, a couple of people might have tried to disappear into the crowd, but the group had followed directions from the police. he had not called and asked about specific names, but a general assessment had been made on an ongoing basis for all detainees from the time when the statutory six-hour periods started to expire. according to the evidence given by police constable p.w., based on the evidence, the court accepts as fact that during the afternoon and evening, about 138 persons were detained, half of them being detained pursuant to the police act; that the unrest continued for the rest of the afternoon and all evening; and that the detention of the plaintiffs was ended as soon as the city centre had become quiet, in the assessment of the police, after a group comprising thirty-five danes was arrested towards midnight. it is stated in the second sentence of section 5(3) of the police act that detention must be as brief as possible and should not extend beyond six hours where possible. samt politiets adgang til at iværksætte midlertidige foranstaltninger) (see paragraph 33 below).
the applicant was born in 1987 in the netherlands and arrived in denmark when he was approximately 9 months old. he remained in denmark, together with his parents and three brothers. he was released on 10 july 2006 with two hundred and fifty-five days remaining, suspended for two years. moreover, the city court ordered the applicant’s expulsion, suspended with two years’ probation. by a city court judgment of 25 march 2010, he was convicted of theft and sentenced to thirty days’ imprisonment. the applicant was also charged with possession of arms, threatening a witness, drug offences and handling stolen property. the applicant was heard and pleaded not guilty to the robberies. he had never been to croatia or the former yugoslavia. he had no family there and did not speak the language. for the purpose of the court proceedings, the aliens authority (udlændingestyrelsen) issued a report on the applicant. the length of his legal stay in denmark was therefore calculated at approximately sixteen years and two months. he had stated that, for the past two years, he had had a girlfriend, and that his father, three brothers and about 80 family members lived in denmark. in this respect the city court stated:
“as regards the issue of expulsion, the court observes that it depends on an assessment of proportionality as established by the supreme court (højesteret) in a judgment reproduced on page 225 of the danish weekly law reports for 2012 ((ufr) 2012.225h), whether an offender is to be expelled. for instance, when an assessment is made of the nature and seriousness of an offence committed, it has to be taken into account whether the relevant person committed it as a juvenile or as an adult. regard is to be had to the special situation of a person who has spent most, if not all of his or her childhood in the host country, was brought up there and received his or her education there (§ 74). [the applicant] has been convicted of robbery on several previous occasions. two of those sentences were imposed for robberies committed before he attained the age of 18: a sentence for robbery at a post office in 2003 when the defendant was almost 16 years old and a sentence for two street robberies and other offences in 2004/2005 when the defendant was 17 years old. the offences for adjudication in connection with the case at hand were committed during the probation period of the most recent suspended expulsion order. he appealed against the judgment to the high court. it is unknown whether the appeal proceeding have ended.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in tallinn. ’s guardian to protect his interests in social and legal matters and in matters concerning property. was examined by a forensic psychiatric expert who confirmed, in an expert report dated 8 november 2010, the earlier expert findings (see paragraph 6 above). on 6 may 2011 the harju county court terminated the criminal proceedings and ordered that o.t. undergo coercive psychiatric treatment, which commenced on 6 june 2011. was being detained – dated 14 june 2012, which stated: “substantial contact [sisuline kontakt] with o.t. denies the committed offence, does not consider himself mentally ill. ’s attending doctor and the head of the coercive treatment department (dr s.k.), during the course of the interview his facial expression had become angry from time to time, he had laughed inappropriately, and he had faked psychotic experiences. was in need of continued psychiatric treatment. the court decided that no additional expert opinion was necessary, as under article 403 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure (kriminaalmenetluse seadustik – “the ccrp”) (see paragraph 21 below) the opinion of the medical committee sufficed as evidence. following an appeal by the applicant, on 5 march 2013 the tartu court of appeal quashed the above-mentioned decision because, contrary to the ccrp, the first-instance court had not examined the case in oral proceedings. and a lawyer (advokaat) was appointed to assist him. the tartu county court re-examined the case at a hearing on 8 may 2013. himself stated that he did not understand anything and did not wish to make statements. posed a danger to himself or to society and that no independent expert assessment had been carried out. she considered the opinions given by the hospital’s own medical committee (see paragraphs 9 and 10 above and paragraph 22 below) to be superficial and repetitive in their wording. on 4 july 2013 the tartu court of appeal dismissed the appeal. was unfounded and that the county court had rightly relied on the opinions of the medical committee and the head of the coercive treatment department. ’s rights – primarily his right to liberty.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1986, respectively, and were detained at the tekirdağ f-type prison when the application was lodged. on 28 and 29 october 2005 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 31 october 2005 the applicants were brought before a judge at the istanbul assize court which ordered their detention on remand. on 23 december 2005 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicants, accusing them, inter alia, of membership of a terrorist organisation and illegal possession of explosives. on 26 december 2005 the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention. throughout the proceedings the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention on remand. between the hearings, with regular intervals of one month, the court ex officio examined the applicants’ detentions on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend. at the end of the hearing held on 13 october 2008, the trial court decided once again to prolong the applicants’ detention. although the applicants’ lawyer was present at this hearing, the applicants were not brought from prison to the court. subsequently, their lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 13 october 2008. on 11 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or to their representative. on 23 december 2009 the court convicted the applicants and sentenced them to imprisonment. the court also ordered the continuation of the first applicant’s detention and the release of the second applicant. on 24 march 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in kragujevac. on 14 december 2006 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the kragujevac clinical centre requesting damages. in the course of the proceedings eleven hearings were held, whereas five hearings were scheduled, but were not held. on 20 may 2011 the applicant’s claim was rejected as unfounded by the kragujevac court of first instance. on 26 december 2011 the kragujevac appellate court (“the appellate court”) quashed the decision of 20 may 2011 and remitted the case to the first instance court. in the resumed proceedings the applicant sought recusal of the acting judge twice, but both of his motions were rejected. on 4 october 2012, after three held hearings and two hearings which were not held, expert examination and the increase of the applicants claim, the case was transferred to the kragujevac high court (“the high court”). on 20 march 2013, following the applicant’s two other recusal requests, one of which was adopted, the high court rejected the applicant’s damages claim as unfounded. on 21 august 2014 the appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 20 march 2013. thereafter, the applicant filed an appeal on points of law, which was rejected by the supreme court of cassation only on 21 december 2016. in the meantime, on 7 february 2013, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court complaining about the length of the pending civil proceedings, seeking non-pecuniary damages in the amount of 3,000 euros and publication of the decision of the constitutional court. the constitutional court transferred the case-file to the appellate court, as a competent court to deal with the length complaints of the pending cases, pursuant to article 8a of the law on the organization of the courts. however, on 23 september 2014 the appellate court established that it no longer had jurisdiction to deal with the applicant’s complaint since it found that the civil proceedings had been finished. the applicant’s case-file was thus returned to the constitutional court. on 6 november 2014 the constitutional court returned the case-file to the appellate court, which on 28 november 2014 again found that it had no jurisdiction to deal with the case. the appellate court then transferred the case-file further to the supreme court of cassation, as the competent court. on 22 january 2015 the supreme court of cassation rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 28 november 2014. it also partially adopted the applicant’s complaint concerning the length of the proceedings and awarded him 200 euros for non-pecuniary damage, whereas the rest of claim rejected. on 21 october 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal in regards to the length of the proceedings. the constitutional court established that even though the impugned proceedings had lasted seven years and eight months, they were very complex and the applicant largely contributed to its length, whereas the competent courts acted efficiently.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in bečej, where he was employed as a police officer. on 24 january 2003 the bečej municipal court (“the municipal court”) started judicial investigation proceedings against the applicant for the alleged commission of a number of criminal offences concerning the performance of his duties. on 26 may 2003 the competent directorate of the ministry of interior dismissed the applicant from the police force (effective as of 30 may 2003). the decision noted that the criminal proceedings had been instituted against the applicant and that article 45, in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2), of the ministry of interior act 1991, which was in force at the time of the dismissal, should be applied. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision, but on 30 june 2003 his appeal was rejected and the dismissal thus confirmed. on 23 july 2003 the applicant lodged a claim with the municipal court seeking his reinstatement. on 31 october 2003 the municipal court partly discontinued the criminal proceedings against the applicant based on the applicable procedural prescription period. on 12 november 2003 the remainder of the criminal proceedings were discontinued because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the charges. on 30 december 2003 the municipal court annulled the decision on the applicant’s dismissal of 26 may 2003 by partial judgment, establishing that everyone charged with a criminal offence should be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a court of law, and that a broad interpretation of article 45 of the ministry of interior act 1991 in regards to the persons who were not found guilty could be only to their detriment. on 17 june 2004 the novi sad district court (“the district court”) upheld this judgment. the applicant’s former employer thereafter submitted an appeal on points of law. in the meantime, the applicant was reinstated to his previous post by decision of the ministry of interior of 13 january 2005. the decisions of 26 may and 30 june 2003 were also repealed. on 9 march 2005, however, the supreme court upheld the appeal on points of law, reversed the judgments of 30 december 2003 and 17 june 2004 and rejected the applicant’s claim for reinstatement. it found that the dismissal of 26 may 2006 had been in accordance with the article 45, read in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2) of the ministry of interior act 1991, and that the mere fact that the criminal proceedings had been pending against the applicant was sufficient reason for the applicant’s dismissal. on 4 july 2005 the applicant was thus again dismissed from his job, which decision was upheld on 11 august 2005 by the minister of interior. on 4 august 2005, the applicant brought another set of the proceedings for the annulment of his second dismissal. on 14 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court concerning the outcome, fairness and the length of the civil proceedings concerning his dismissal, the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty and the “right to work”. on 17 february 2011 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal. 43519/07 and 2 others, §§ 36-37, 12 january 2016).
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in moscow. on 8 october 2010 the applicant was charged with contempt of court and criminal libel of the judge who presided over the appeal proceedings in the first criminal case (“the second criminal case”). on 29 august 2007 the investigator made the applicant sign an undertaking to stay in novosibirsk for the duration of the proceedings in the first criminal case. in august 2008 the first criminal case was submitted for trial. on 13 november 2008 his request was refused; the judge held that the application of the travel restriction was justified on account of the applicant’s previous failures to appear. her decision was upheld on appeal by the district court on 27 january 2009 and by the regional court on 16 march 2009. the investigator located and removed his desktop and laptop computers, a memory stick, two cds and a dvd. he examined the devices, copied the relevant contents onto a disk and put them sealed in the storage. the applicant applied for judicial review. the electronics were returned to the applicant in 2013 after the conviction in the second criminal case had become final (see paragraph 7 above). m. refused to testify on the ground that she was the applicant’s lawyer. the investigator issued the decision to remove m. as the applicant’s counsel, relying on the legal provision that prevented witnesses from representing defendants in the same criminal case. his complaint was rejected by the district court on 11 february 2011 at first instance and on appeal by the regional court on 6 april 2011. the applicant objected to his participation and insisted that m. should be allowed to represent him. at the preliminary hearing on 1 july 2011, the novosibirsk regional court accepted that the rights of the defence had been undermined by reason of the investigator’s failure to address the applicant’s objections to the participation of the legal-aid lawyer. the regional court returned the case to the prosecutor with the instruction to remedy the violation. on 22 august 2011 the criminal panel of the regional court rejected the appeal. one hour later the district court granted the application. accordingly, the court considered necessary to commit the applicant for an in-patient assessment lasting no longer than thirty days with a view to determining what his mental state had been at the time the imputed offence of libel had been committed. the applicant was taken to the hospital where he went on a hunger strike in protest against his involuntary placement.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in štitare. on 30 may 2000 the belgrade third municipal court ordered a socially-owned company kmg trudbenik (hereinafter “the debtor company”), based in belgrade, to pay to the applicant a specified amount on account of salary arrears, plus the costs of the civil proceedings (judgment no. this judgment became enforceable on 19 june 2000. on 13 march 2002, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant’s enforcement costs (enforcement order no. on 7 october 2003 the enforcement proceedings were suspended due to the institution of compulsory settlement proceedings before the belgrade commercial court (“the commercial court”). on 9 december 2011 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company. on 6 march 2012 the applicant submitted his request for enforcement of the 30 may 2000 judgment (“enforcement request”) to the insolvency manager. the insolvency manager neither rejected the applicant’s claim nor forwarded it to the commercial court. on 24 february 2014 the applicant thus submitted his enforcement request with the commercial court, and on 1 october 2014 he supplemented it. on 6 august and 27 october 2014 the applicant complained about the inactivity of the acting judge in the insolvency proceedings. on 13 october 2014 the commercial court rejected the applicant’s enforcement request as having been lodged out of time. on 28 january 2015 the commercial appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal, and upheld the commercial court’s decision of 13 october 2014. on 24 march 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of the decision of 28 january 2015. however, on 19 may 2016 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal as unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in bratislava. on 20 december 2014 the bratislava iv district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention in the context of criminal proceedings in which he was prosecuted for committing the criminal offence of manslaughter. the reason for his detention was the risk of reoffending. on 3 march 2015 the applicant submitted a request to the district prosecution office for release from pre-trial detention. in it, he asked for his detention to be replaced with supervision by a probation officer. the request was received by the latter on 4 march 2015 and dismissed on 5 march 2015, following which it was transferred to the district court for a judicial determination. on 26 march 2015 the district court held a hearing and dismissed the applicant’s request for release. the written version of that decision was served on the applicant on 14 april 2015 and, after several unsuccessful attempts at delivery, was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 21 april 2015. the case file was transferred to the bratislava regional court on 29 april 2015 and the applicant’s appeal was dismissed in chambers on 7 may 2015. the written version of that decision was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 18 may 2015. on 1 june 2015 the applicant filed a constitutional complaint, relying inter alia on article 5 § 4 of the convention. he alleged that the authorities had not proceeded speedily with his request for release. he formally challenged the proceedings held before the district curt, the decision of the regional court of 7 may 2015 and the proceedings preceding this decision. he also requested compensation of 2,000 euros (eur) in addition to his legal costs and expenses. on 30 march 2016 the constitutional court declared the part of his complaint in respect of the proceedings held before the district court admissible and the remainder inadmissible. the constitutional court held that it had found no irregularities in the regional court’s decision of 7 may 2015. it did not award him any compensation or legal costs and expenses. the constitutional court scrutinised only the district court’s proceedings and concluded that they had lasted 44 days. the district court had therefore failed to deal with the applicant’s request speedily and to serve the written decision on him promptly. with respect to the financial compensation, the constitutional court referred to “the principle of fairness”, “the particular circumstances of the case”, the duration of the delays and the intensity of the interference, and concluded that the finding of a violation of the applicant’s right constituted a sufficient redress.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. on 29 december 2007 n., the owner of two rooms in flat 10 located at 3‑3, ulitsa anny severyanovoy, moscow, signed a deed of gift in respect of the rooms for ya. the moscow city department of the federal registration service (the “registration service”) registered the deed and ya. on an unspecified date the investigative committee opened criminal investigation into m.’s actions who was suspected of having tricked n. into signing the deed of gift for ya. according to the sale contract, the applicant paid 300,000 russian roubles (rub) for the rooms. on 11 july 2008 the preobrazhenskiy district court of moscow issued a seizure order in respect of the rooms within the framework of the criminal investigation on the charges of fraud against m. 10. on 16 july 2008 the registration service registered the sale agreement between ya. and the applicant and the applicant’s title to the rooms. on 28 september 2009 the district court found m. guilty of multiple offences, including a fraud in respect of the room later purchased by the applicant, and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment. the court established that m. had tricked n. into signing the deed of gift in respect of the two rooms whilst m. had actually sold the rooms to ya. on 7 february 2014 the department of housing of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) brought a civil action seeking restitution of the title to the two rooms to the city of moscow and the applicant’s eviction. on 29 december 2014 the presnenskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims. the court found the deed of gift null and void. it further established that n., the lawful owner of the rooms, had died intestate and without heirs. accordingly the rooms should be considered a bona vacantia and should be transferred to the city of moscow, even though the applicant had bought the rooms in good faith. the court transferred the title to the rooms to the city of moscow and ordered the applicant’s eviction. on 18 june 2015 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 29 december 2014 on appeal. on 26 october 2015 the city court refused to grant the applicant leave to a cassation appeal against the judgments of 29 december 2014 and 18 june 2015. on 9 march 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation issued a similar decision. the parties did not provide any information as regards the enforcement of the judgments in the city’s favour.
the applicant company is a private media company whose registered office is in ljubljana. mr s. took the officers to the mailroom but nobody was there. a moment later mr p., the deputy finance executive, arrived at the mailroom. since none of the employees wanted to accept the orders, the officers eventually left them in the mailroom and the orders were thus deemed to be served. nothing had prevented them from carrying out the inspection. the obstruction had been mr p.’s unwillingness to cooperate with officers and to immediately facilitate access to evidence and its preservation. it requested an oral hearing, maintaining that a direct examination of the evidence was required to properly establish the facts of the case. in particular, the four witnesses, who had been present at the premises on the day of the alleged obstruction, would prove that the applicant company had not obstructed the inspection or refused to cooperate with the officers. as to mr p., it held that he had not been an employee of the applicant company and had not been authorised to collect any mail. since he was only in a contractual relationship with the applicant company, his allegedly illegal actions could not be attributed to it. on 26 november 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant company’s action (see paragraph 11 above). it noted at the outset that the applicant company was not allowed to introduce new facts and evidence in the judicial review proceedings and that they would not be taken into consideration. the court emphasised that although the applicant company had contested the facts as established by the office (see paragraph 10 above), it had not challenged the fact that the officers could not immediately after their arrival at the company’s premises secure the evidence. in this connection, the court held that making the officers wait in the reception area while the company prepared for the inspection ran contrary to the purpose of an inspection. the only important fact was that the authorised persons could not immediately start securing the evidence. meanwhile, on 7 august 2012 the office issued a summary of the relevant facts (povzetek relevantnih dejstev), expressing the opinion that the applicant company had abused its dominant position in the television advertising market. the agency also noted that the minor-offence proceedings that generally followed were separate from the administrative proceedings. on 3 december 2013 the supreme court dismissed the action (see paragraph 19 above). consequently, it refused to hold a hearing. in accordance with the minor offences act, the agency informed those involved in the proceedings in writing of the alleged minor offence and invited them to submit their written statements within five days of service of the document.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in chișinău. on 15 june 2014 the applicant had an altercation with two persons, one of whom was in an advanced state of intoxication. during the altercation, the applicant pushed the intoxicated person and punched the other one. as a result, the intoxicated person fell to the ground and received a serious head trauma. the scene was witnessed by the wife of the intoxicated person and a neighbour. on the same day the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. he also submitted that he could not influence any witnesses because they were in another village and that a restraining order to quit his town of residence would be sufficient to eliminate that risk. the applicant was not arrested and, according to him, was told to go home. on 25 august 2014 the applicant was arrested at home and placed in detention. on 17 september 2014 the prosecutor’s office lodged an application for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention arguing, inter alia, that between 22 july 2014 and 25 august 2014 the applicant had absconded from the investigating authority. on 23 september 2014 the ialoveni district court upheld the prosecutor’s request and prolonged the applicant’s detention for a period of thirty days. the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued, inter alia, that there was no risk of absconding or interfering with the investigation. he went home and nobody came after him until 25 august 2014. on 7 october 2014 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 22 october 2014 the applicant requested access to the casefile with a view to obtaining a copy of the materials filed by the public prosecutor together with his application of 7 october 2014. the applicant lodged on the same date a habeas corpus request. on 20 november 2014 the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request. the applicant was released from detention and ordered not to leave his town and not to interfere with the investigation. throughout his detention the applicant was held in prison no. the cells were equipped with squat toilets which were not properly separated.
the first applicant was born in 1975 and lives in st petersburg. x, the second applicant, was born in 2012 and lives in the moscow region. according to m., she left the first applicant because of frequent disputes between them during which the first applicant had shouted at her. she left a note promising to contact him shortly. on 30 april 2013 the first applicant contacted the st petersburg childcare authorities and asked for assistance in finding his son and returning him to his registered place of residence in that city. he argued that that arrangement would ensure that the second applicant maintained family ties with both parents. the first applicant further submitted that he had a stable income from bank‑deposit interest while m. had no income and lived on the child maintenance that he paid her. indeed, while they had lived together, he had spent as much time with the child and had been responsible for his everyday care as much as m. they had a very strong mutual attachment. the first applicant’s parents applied to intervene as third parties and that the second applicant’s residence be set as st petersburg. m. co-owned the flat in nizhniy novgorod where she currently lived with x; that flat had everything necessary for a small child. moreover, m. was unemployed rather than on parental leave because she had not been in employment since 2009. lastly, the first applicant argued that inherent in the concept of the child’s “best interests” was the right for a child not to be removed from one of his or her parents and retained by the other (he referred to maumousseau and washington v. france, no. on 13 march 2015 the nizhniy novgorod childcare authorities informed the first applicant that they had had a meeting with m. during which she had been told that she had to keep the child’s father informed about the child’s whereabouts and that the child was entitled to maintain contact with his grandparents and other relatives. she had not seen her grandson since april 2013. on an unspecified date the first applicant applied to the nizhegorodskiy district court for contact rights, claiming that m. decided whimsically on the days when she would allow him to see his son without taking into account that he lived in another town, and that she occasionally prohibited any contact between them for long periods of time. the court also ordered that m. should inform the first applicant immediately by telephone if x were suffering from illness, and inform him two days in advance about any temporary change of residence. irregular contact with any of the parents would be detrimental to his relationship with that parent. on 14 september 2016 the nizhegorodskyy district court found that, despite its decision of 29 march 2016, the bailiffs service had still not taken any actions to enforce the interim contact order of 29 september 2015 and again ordered that the bailiffs should redress the first applicant’s rights. on 13 march 2017 a judge of the nizhniy novgorod regional court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal against the contact order of 27 april 2016, as upheld on appeal on 25 october 2016, to the presidium of that court for examination, finding no significant violations of substantive or procedural law which had influenced the outcome of the proceedings. the first applicant is renting a flat in the vicinity of x’s new place of residence and regularly comes from st petersburg to visit him.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born on 7 february 1977. his request was granted and he was registered as a person legally residing in denmark in november 1997. moreover, his oldest son, i, was mentally disabled and would need special assistance to travel. since he did not consent to the release on parole, he was brought before the district court which, on 23 august 2012, by virtue of section 50, subsection 2, of the aliens act (udlændingeloven) maintained his detention until a decision was taken on whether to revoke the deportation order. to this effect, relying on section 50, subsection 1, of the aliens act, the applicant claimed that material changes had occurred in his circumstances. after his mother had died, he had not had much contact with his family in jordan. the immigration service also finds that the unsubstantiated information provided by [the applicant’s] counsel, that several of [the applicant’s] children suffer from mental problems as a result of the separation from [the applicant] cannot lead to a revocation of the expulsion order either...” 21. before the district court, x confirmed the statements that she had given to the police. he was still in respite care, as she had described to the police. their daughter was probably the one who was most strongly attached to [the applicant], but their two sons were also very attached to him. the two youngest children had not been offered consultations with a school psychologist. it would be a disaster if her children were separated permanently from their father. all of them were healthy and attended school here in denmark. she stated in that respect that she had lived in jordan for five years with her parents. when leaving jordan in 2000, she had been told at the airport in jordan that she must pay some money for having lived in jordan, and if she failed to pay she could not return to jordan. this was the reason why she could not return to jordan. when asked how and to whom her family had had to pay money, she replied that she had been very young at the time and had never learned the details about that. it would help if he could be with [the applicant]. it had not been decided whether she would follow him to jordan in case of expulsion.
the applicants are joint owners of the property at number 274, republic street, valletta. initially, the property belonged to the applicants’ ascendants. by law (the civil code read in conjunction with the re‑letting of urban property (regulation) ordinance – see relevant domestic law below), the applicants are obliged to renew, on an annual basis, the lease entered into by their ascendants, and may not demand an increase in rent. part of the property is utilised as a band club, and part of the property is operated as a restaurant and bar. the amendments however also gave the relevant minister the power to regulate conditions relating to clubs, thus allowing for the possibility of future amendments (see paragraph 19 below). in 2011, the applicants filed proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional jurisdiction. they claimed that they were being denied the use of their property without being provided with adequate compensation. the applicants further submitted that, in 2009, the law had been amended, allowing for an increase in rent and the establishment of a cut‑off date for existing “protected rents”, but the amendments in the law did not cover properties rented out as clubs. the applicants claimed that the law was discriminatory and was therefore in violation of article 14 of the convention. the applicants had submitted that the property had a rental value of eur 269,100 a year, while the ag and the pm had submitted that the property had a rental value of eur 93,000 a year. irrespective of which value one was to consider, the court concluded that the rent being received by the applicants was disproportionate. the costs of the proceedings were to be paid, half by the ag and pm, and the other half by the kobc. the court further concluded that the applicants had not suffered any discrimination as no satisfactory proof had been presented showing that they were discriminated against when compared to other owners leasing their property as a club. the ag, pm and kobc filed an appeal before the constitutional court. however, in line with domestic case-law the constitutional court concluded that, because the agreement had been entered into voluntarily with full knowledge of the consequences it would lead to (that is, that the rent due could not be raised and the rent agreement could not be terminated), then the applicants could not allege a violation of their rights. on 6 may 2015, the applicants filed an application for retrial. nevertheless, the applicants also instituted proceedings before this court on 20 july 2015. the costs of the proceedings were to be paid by the applicants. as from 2015 the tenant also had to pay an additional rent calculated at the rate of 5% on the annual income derived by the club. as a result in 2015 the total annual rent paid to the applicants by the kobc was eur 2,876.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. the applicant is the wife of mr vait askhabov, who was born in 1976. on 28 may 2007 the applicant complained to the president of the chechen republic that the investigation had been ineffective. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 10 october 2007 the investigators’ superiors overruled the suspension owing to the need to question the traffic police officers who had witnessed the arrest. told them that mr rustam makayev would be questioned and released in two hours. according to the applicants, in january 2002 a person working at the urus-martan military commander’s office promised them that mr rustam makayev would be released in return for their handing him over a gun. having questioned mr rustam makayev’s father and wife, who confirmed the account of the events, as described above, the investigators suspended the proceedings on 22 february 2002 for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 28 february 2003 the investigation was suspended again. four days later the applicant was granted victim status in the case. on 21 december 2010 the applicants lodged a complaint with the shali town court, complaining of the investigator’s failure to take basic steps. on 26 october and 19 november 2004 the applicant requested the investigators to resume the proceedings. by a letter of 31 august 2005 the shali district prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that operational search measures had been taken to find her missing sons. by a letter of 2 july 2008 he was informed that the proceedings had been suspended. 46060 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). the applicants provided this information to the investigators. on 3 august 2004 the applicants informed the authorities of the abduction and requested that criminal proceedings be opened. she confirmed the circumstances of the abduction, as described above. she reiterated the statements that she had previously given.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in nicoreni. they were to travel to moscow by train, however, x did not show up at the train station at the time of leaving and the applicant left for moscow alone with the money he had previously obtained from x in the amount of 520 euros. he did not return to moldova until october 2015. in the meantime x lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant accusing him of fraud. criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant in march 2012 on the basis of that complaint. the prosecutor argued in support of the remand that the applicant had been hiding from the investigating authorities. on 8 february 2013 the râșcani district court ordered the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days. in support of its decision, the court argued that the applicant had been absconding from the investigating authorities and that he could hinder the investigation and influence witnesses. on 9 october 2015 the applicant returned to moldova from the russian federation. at the border he was informed that he was being wanted by the police and that he had to present himself at the râșcani police station. the applicant telephoned the police station and agreed to come on 13 october 2015. on 13 october 2015 the applicant went to the râșcani police station where he was immediately arrested and placed in detention. on 15 october 2015 the applicant appealed against the order of 8 february 2013. he argued, inter alia, that he had not been aware of the criminal investigation against himself and that he had learned about it upon his return to moldova. moreover, after learning about the investigation he had immediately contacted the police station and presented himself there. he also submitted that there were no reasons to believe that he would abscond or interfere with the investigation. the applicant’s detention was prolonged on several other occasions until 16 march 2016 on identical grounds and all his appeals were dismissed. in the meantime the applicant was detained in prison no. according to him, he was detained in an overcrowded cell; the cell was equipped with a squat toilet which was not properly separated; the food was insufficient and of poor quality; he could have only one hour of outside exercise per day and only one shower per week. by a final judgment of the supreme court of justice of 12 july 2017 the applicant was convicted of fraud and given a suspended sentence of four years imprisonment.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, were living in the chechen republic. the events took place in areas under the full control of the russian federal forces. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. the latter had been exhausted and had complained of ill-treatment by the servicemen. on 13 may 2003, in response to an enquiry from the applicants, the investigator informed them that the investigation had been suspended but that operational search activities were under way. on 21 january 2011 the investigation was resumed again. after the ride the men had been separated and he had not seen them again. 73038 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 29 october 2002 the investigation in the case was suspended. on 13 july and 5 august 2004 the north caucasus military prosecutor’s office forwarded the first applicant’s requests for assistance in establishing her son’s whereabouts to the military prosecutor’s office of military unit no. immediately after the abduction the applicants informed the authorities thereof and requested that a criminal investigation be initiated. the whereabouts of mr musa zaurbekov remain unknown. on 5 june 2003 the first applicant was granted victim status. in the autumn of 2011 the first applicant requested that she be allowed to access the investigation file. the first applicant is the sister of mr aslambek abdurzakov, who was born in 1976. at about 4 a.m. on 20 july 2002 (in the documents submitted the date was also referred to as 15 may 2002) the family was at home when a large group of armed military servicemen in camouflage uniforms arrived at their house in an apc and a grey military uaz minivan. on 16 february 2008 the first applicant requested that the investigators inform her about the progress in the proceedings, and sought information from the federal service for the execution of sentences on the possible detention of mr aslambek abdurzakov in russian detention facilities. on an unspecified date in 2012 the first applicant complained to the shali town court of the investigators’ failure to take basic investigative steps. on 8 october 2005 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is serving a sentence in diyarbakır prison. he was allegedly subjected to torture while held in police custody, which lasted twenty-two days. the applicant was questioned by the police at the diyarbakır security directorate. in his statements, the applicant admitted his membership of the illegal organisation and mentioned certain activities in which he had participated. on 25 september 1994 the applicant participated in another on-site inspection and reconstruction of events, in the course of which he confessed, again in the absence a lawyer, to other offences. twenty-two days after his arrest, namely on 4 october 1994, a doctor at diyarbakır public hospital drew up a collective medical report in respect of the applicant and twenty-seven other suspects. owing to a lack of prison places, the applicant was not put in prison but was kept at the anti-terrorism branch of the diyarbakır security directorate for three more days, during which time he was allegedly subjected to torture again. seven other individuals were charged under articles 168 and 169 of the same code. at the second hearing held on 23 january 1995 the applicant gave evidence in the presence of his lawyer and retracted the statements he had made to the police and the public prosecutor, alleging that they had been obtained through torture. he further stated that he had no relationship with the illegal organisation and that all the acts attributed to him had been a sham orchestrated by the police. at the hearings of 22 august, 4 october and 15 november 1996, the state security court heard evidence from h.o., at the hearings of 5 august and 30 december 1997, the state security court heard evidence from a.y. on 6 november 1997 the applicant stated that he had been coerced by the police into admitting to the acts attributed to him. the diyarbakır state security court joined all the cases owing to the link between them. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. it rejected the applicant’s contention that he had been tortured while in police custody on the grounds that according to the medical report dated 4 october 1994, no traces of ill-treatment had been found on him. in particular, twenty-eight of them had fully retracted their police statements before the trial court while two of them had partially done so. the applicant appealed and on 16 april 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment. in 2010 the applicant requested a copy of the medical report prepared on 4 october 1994 from the diyarbakır public prosecutor’s office. on 5 february 2010 he was informed that all the documents prepared in 1994 had been destroyed in 2004.
the applicant was born in 1933 and was detained in milan up to the time of his death in 2016. by an order of 5 march 2013 the gup suspended the proceedings against the applicant. on 9 april 2014 he was admitted to the correctional wing of san paolo hospital in milan, where he was hospitalised until his death. he also had several surgical consultations. following an improvement in his overall condition, he was discharged on 19 october 2012. on 12 december 2012 the duty doctor was called by a prison officer, who reported that the applicant had slipped in his cell and fallen. on 15 december 2012 the duty nurse reported that the applicant had fallen out of bed while sleeping. however, there are no specific details about when that complaint was lodged, and no information was provided as to its outcome. on 11 april 2014 the applicant underwent a neuropsychological examination by a specialist in san paolo hospital. the reporting doctor confirmed the findings of the report by the parma general hospital authorities of 19 march 2014 in terms of the applicant’s neuro-cognitive situation, which he described as seriously compromised, as well as his progressive muscular atrophy, lack of mobility, and complete dependence on others. the pathologies with the greatest functional impact were identified as being extrapyramidal syndrome and serious cognitive decline. by a decision of 3 may 2013 the bologna court responsible for the execution of sentences (“the bologna court”) held that there were no grounds for modifying the applicant’s sentence on health grounds. the applicant appealed against the decision before the court of cassation. by a decision of 3 october 2014 the milan court held that there were no grounds for modifying the applicant’s sentence on health grounds. moreover, in the court’s view, his placement in the correctional unit and not within the general hospital population guaranteed an even higher level of attention and vigilance with respect to his critical health conditions. the outcome of such investigations had also shed light on the means by which the applicant’s support network had enabled him to remain in hiding, the communication system between himself and prominent fugitives during their time in hiding, and his use of coded messages to convey the organisation’s strategies. on 23 march 2016 the minister of justice issued an order renewing the application of the special prison regime for another two years. the order acknowledged that the caltanissetta and florence ddas had confirmed their previous negative opinion as to the renewal of the regime with regard to the applicant, and that the caltanissetta dda had relied on the deterioration in the applicant’s health to reach its conclusions, while the florence dda’s opinion had hinged on the finding that there were no longer any ongoing criminal investigations involving the applicant. with regard to the applicant’s health, the palermo dda stated that, on the basis of the clinical information in its possession, it agreed with the rome court’s decision (see paragraph 73 above), and it quoted an extract from the decision in which the court had stated that it could not rule out with absolute certainty the applicant’s being able to convey criminally relevant messages pertaining to the organisation’s criminal activities. with regard to the applicant’s health, the dna reiterated the content of its 2014 opinion on the extension of the special prison regime and quoted extracts from it to the effect that the imposition of such a regime in no way interfered with the applicant’s medical care, and modifying the regime would not have an impact on his health.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in vienna. at the end of the hearing on 15 february 2011 the regional court acquitted the applicant in relation to several of the statements originally included in the indictment under article 283 of the criminal code. this was partly because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the indictment concerning certain statements and partly because it could not be established that the applicant had made some of the other statements exactly – or at least approximately – as they were worded in the indictment. one of the biggest problems we are facing today is that muhammad is seen as the ideal man, the perfect human, the perfect muslim. this does not happen according to our social standards and laws. das läuft nicht nach unseren sozialen standards und gesetzen ab. weil er war ein kriegsherr, hatte einen relativ großen frauenverschleiß, um das jetzt einmal so auszudrücken, hatte nun mal gerne mit kindern ein bisschen was. und er war nach unseren begriffen kein perfekter mensch. damit haben wir heute riesige probleme, weil muslime mit der demokratie und unserem wertesystem in konflikt geraten... 2. die wichtigsten von allen rechtsschulen anerkannten hadith-sammlungen: die allerwichtigste ist die sahih al-bukhari. und sie: "das kann man doch so nicht sagen." however, it also found that it could not be established that the applicant had intended to decry all muslims. a balancing exercise between the rights under article 9 on the one hand and those under article 10 on the other needed to be carried out. it had not been her intention to disparage muhammad. what do we call it, if it is not paedophilia?” – the court of appeal stated that the reason for the applicant’s conviction had not been that the events had purportedly taken place more than a thousand years ago and similar conduct would no longer be tolerable under today’s criminal law and contemporary moral and value concepts, but because the applicant had accused muhammad of paedophilia by using the plural form “children”, “child sex”, “what do we call it, if it is not paedophilia?” however, the permissible limits were exceeded where criticism ended and insults or mockery of a religious belief or person of worship (beschimpfung oder verspottung einer religion oder von ihr verehrten personen) began. on 11 december 2013 the supreme court dismissed the request for a renewal of the proceedings. where a conviction was based on article 188 of the criminal code, the principles developed under article 9 and 10 of the convention had to be considered when examining whether a statement was capable of “arousing justified indignation”. the court, whilst not misjudging the importance of the debate about sexual contact between adults and children, found that the applicant had not contributed to a debate of general interest because she had made her allegation primarily in order to defame muhammad.
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, slobozia, târgoviște and reșița, which led to the fall of the communist regime. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s offices from several cities opened on their own motion criminal investigations into the use of violence against the demonstrators. the applicants’ injury and their close relatives’ deaths were investigated along with most of the cases in a main criminal investigation recorded in file no. the most important procedural steps were mentioned in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. subsequent relevant developments of the criminal investigation are as follows. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact. up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the taking of evidence from military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television. from march 2017 the military prosecutor examined military and civilian archives, including the vast archives of the romanian senate. they also viewed and transcribed more than 400 hours of audio/video recordings. they proceeded with the re-examination of several witnesses. they questioned military personnel involved in the december 1989 military operations and fifty-one members of the political party which ruled at the time and of other authorities. they verified the documents indicating the military units’ actions from that period. at the date of the latest information communicated by the parties to the court (29 march 2018), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the first applicant was born in 1950 and lives in reykjavík. the second applicant was born in 1948 and lives in reykjavík. on 16 february 2012 y and z were indicted for participating in fraud and market manipulation along with two other individuals. on 7 march 2012, in accordance with article 31 of the criminal procedures act no. on 24 january and 7 march 2013 the prosecution submitted further evidence in the case. by a decision of the same day the district court rejected the request. the applicants and the other defence counsel requested that the prosecution provide them with certain documentary evidence. by decisions of 26 march 2013, the district court rejected both requests. they noted that they had discussed this with their clients and made clear that the latter approved of their decision. he reiterated that the trial would start on 11 april 2013 as previously decided. the applicants replied to the letter immediately, referred to their previous arguments and stated that they would not attend the trial on 11 april 2013. however, the government stated that the court records (which were not submitted to the court) did not reflect that the presiding judge had taken a position on this point. by a judgment of 12 december 2013, y and z, along with the other two accused, were convicted. as regards the second complaint, the applicants argued, inter alia, that imposing fines on them as defence counsel had not been in accordance with the cpa as they had not been defence counsel at the time the district court judgment was delivered. furthermore, the applicants maintained that their conduct in question had not occurred during the proceedings as the cpa required. the supreme court held an oral hearing in the case where the applicants were represented by legal counsel. on the other hand it was, as previously stated, also possible for the judge in the criminal case, of his own accord, to impose fines in accordance with the first sentence of [section 222 (1)]. instead [the applicants] were relieved of their duties at the hearing on 11 april 2013 and a decision to impose fines on them was taken in the judgment delivered on 12 december 2013. in the light of this, the applicants’ rights have not been impaired due to the lack of an oral hearing by the district court before the decision was taken to impose fines on them. given these circumstances in the processing of the case, the appealed provision of the district court’s judgment on the court fines should be annulled.”
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in kyiv. from 13 april 2007 to 17 june 2011 the applicant had been serving his sentence in boryspil correctional colony (“the prison”). on 17 june 2011 he was released on probation. in his initial submissions, the applicant stated that he had been detained in dirty cells with poor ventilation and insufficient heating in winter. inmates suffering from hiv and tuberculosis were kept together with healthy prisoners. the food and water provided to him and other prisoners were unsatisfactory and hazardous to their health. some searches had been carried out at night. as a result, the applicant experienced fear and stress. no adequate medical assistance was provided to the applicant during his imprisonment. he only received occasional and symptomatic treatment. he therefore had to send some letters to the court via friends who were at liberty. the government challenged the trustworthiness of part of the applicant’s submissions concerning the conditions of his detention, specifically his allegations that he had been detained in cells with poor sanitary and hygiene conditions together with inmates suffering from tuberculosis. the food and water were regularly checked and were of adequate quality. on 23 september 2008 and 29 april 2009 the applicant was found to be suffering from dermatitis and prescribed appropriate treatment. when he had refused job offers, he had assisted unpaid with different kinds of prison maintenance work, for no more than two hours a day. as regards the applicant’s communication with the court, they denied that all the letters sent to him had been opened. by letters of 8 and 15 september 2008 the brovary town court, at which his case file was kept, informed the applicant, inter alia, that the case file did not contain his cassation appeals or any replies from or judgments of the supreme court. on 17 february 2009 the brovary town court informed the applicant that the case file did not contain any letters or judgments of the supreme court. on 9 april 2009 the applicant was provided with a copy of the supreme court’s judgment in his criminal case and on 13 april 2009 he submitted it to the court. after his release from the prison on 17 june 2011, the applicant was given full access to his criminal case file.
ms bazanova (“the first applicant”) was born on 4 december 1964 and lives in serpukhov. on 6 october 2009 the first applicant, deputy head of the municipal administration at the time, was arrested on the charges of abuse of power and bribery. on 19 november 2010 the moscow regional court opened the trial in the first applicant’s case. the information disclosed had been damaging to his reputation. his statements had been taken out of context and misconstrued. he also alleged that unknown persons had followed and threatened him in the courthouse. lodged a similar complaint with the court. he alleged that the publications in the local newspaper about the trial and his role in it had been damaging to his reputation. on 24 march 2011 the prosecutor asked the court to hold the trial in camera. he relied on the complaints lodged by k. and ts. the court granted the prosecutor’s request and decided to hold the trial in camera in order to protect the interests of the witnesses. on 12 october 2011, having heard the judge rapporteur, the prosecutor, the first applicant and her counsel, the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction in part (one count of abuse of power and one count of bribery in respect of ts. ’s attempt to purchase a plot of land) and quashed it in part (one count of abuse of power and one count of bribery in respect of k.’s attempt to purchase a plot of land) remitting the matter for fresh consideration. on 8 october 2013 the regional court found the first applicant guilty as charged, as regards charges of abuse of power and bribery in respect of the bribe paid by k., and sentenced her cumulatively to 7 years and 3 months’ imprisonment and a monetary fine. it appears that the first applicant did not appeal against the judgment of 8 october 2013. on 4 august 2009 the second applicant was arrested on the charges of extremism and fraud. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 31 march 2011 the savelovskiy district court of moscow fixed the trial for 14 april 2011. the court decided to hold the trial in camera in order to ensure security for the parties to the proceedings and their family members. on 30 september 2011 the district court found the second applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to 9 years’ imprisonment.
the applicants were born in 1950 and 1945 and live in i̇stanbul and ankara respectively. they are university professors specialising, inter alia, in human rights protection. the report first of all dealt with the concept and definition of and the historical background to the protection of minority and cultural rights in worldwide and in turkey. the minister of justice described the report as “sowing intellectual discord”. on 1 november 2004 mr kaboğlu, in his capacity as chairman of the consultative council, organised a press conference in order to reply to the criticisms of the report in question. in january 2013 the measure was converted into one of on-call protection. on 28 october 2004 the daily newspaper halka ve olaylara tercüman published an article by n.k.z. on the subject of the report on minority and cultural rights. by judgment of 25 january 2005 the ankara regional court dismissed the applicants’ claim. that judgment was served on counsel for the applicants on 10 july 2008. had said:
“this report is a real piece of treachery, and those who wrote it should have it ripped to shreds over their heads. on 7 january 2005 the applicants brought civil proceedings against b.a. the applicants appealed on points of law. had amounted to a clear and concrete call to violence, and had been intended to intimidate them and single them out as targets. stated the following:
“... the lickspittles with their report on minorities and cultural rights are threatening the country’s integrity ... i̇brahim kaboğlu says ‘atatürk did not say türk, he said türkiyeli’ ... anyone who goes so far as to hijack the words of mustafa kemal shows his bad faith, separatist aims and treachery...” 30. the main pro-sèvres cheerleader, kaboğlu, ... was going to present the report to the public ... no one sees the unlawfulness, the deviousness, the betrayal underlying this case. by judgment of 25 july 2006, the ankara regional court dismissed the applicants’ claim on the grounds that the statements in the impugned articles fell within the ambit of the provisions protecting their author’s freedom of expression. wrote the following on the subject of the applicants’ report:
“... after the european union’s ‘never make any progress’ report of 6 october 2004, it was expected, as a ‘conditioned reflex’, that those in the pay of the wild west (vahşi batının beslemeleri), almost all of whom are former ... communists, would follow their masters, and even surpass them. perhaps he thinks [that if he continues to] bark ever more loudly, his western masters will one day make a man of him. oh crack-voiced, short-breathed bootlicker!
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in belgium. at the time of the events, he was studying at a university in constanţa, where he had been since october 2006. a student at the same university as the applicant, on suspicion of drug trafficking. at around 1.30 p.m. on 18 april 2008 o.d.a. he also said in his statement that he had been informed that he was entitled to a lawyer but had waived this right. on the same date the case prosecutor submitted to the tulcea county court a request to search the residences of o.d.a. had been extended to the applicant on suspicion of drug trafficking. he further stated that since he did not use lsd and had needed money he had decided to sell nine lsd tabs to o.d.a. lastly, he said that he had never sold any drugs before, that he was not a drug trafficker and that he was sorry for his actions, which he would never repeat. at the upper bottom of the front page the statement was signed and dated 18 april 2008 by a police officer. in this statement, which was in romanian and signed by the applicant, the lawyer, the interpreter and the prosecutor, the applicant reiterated the previous statement given to the police (see paragraph 9 above) but this time stated that he had not known about the lsd in his luggage until he had unpacked at the dormitory. in custody was rejected by the tulcea county court because the two men did not have a criminal record, were students and had been willingly cooperating with the investigative authorities. the applicant, who was assisted by two lawyers of his choice and did not contest the charges brought against him, raised numerous complaints before the court regarding procedural irregularities during the investigation. he was fined 1,000 romanian lei ((rol) – approximately 270 euros (eur)). according to his statements, he had bought approximately 40 grams of cannabis from the applicant on several occasions, and twelve lsd tabs that he had sold at a higher price. had been caught trying to sell the twelve lsd tabs. was informed of his rights on 19 april 2008, at [2.15 p.m.], in the presence of his interpreter and lawyer, [and was] questioned afterwards. the applicant appealed against that judgment, reiterating his previous arguments. on 3 april 2009 the constanţa court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal as ill-founded. ’s statement – also taken in the absence of a lawyer – as well as on the findings of the search that, in his opinion, had not been carried out in compliance with the legal procedural requirements.
the applicant is the biological mother of four children. in december 2005 he was placed in foster care in slovenia and has remained there ever since, having only occasional contact with the applicant. on 4 january 2011, after the applicant had given birth to e., the cerknica centre’s social workers visited her in the hospital, where the medical staff brought to their attention that the applicant was unable to take care of e. and needed constant supervision and help. the cerknica centre’s records of the phone call show that on 11 february 2011 it tried to telephone g. but was unsuccessful. on 30 january 2011 the applicant travelled to france to see her husband. on 16 february 2011 e. was placed in the care of the cerknica centre on the basis of section 201 of the marriage and family relations act (hereinafter “the family act” – see paragraph 60 below). it does not appear that the applicant attempted to challenge the removal and/or care order in any way. the cerknica centre’s records of the ipt’s meeting, prepared by a social worker, show that on 6 june 2011 the applicant visited the cerknica centre, enquiring about e. for the first time. on 5 july 2011 the first contact session with e. took place. following a request by the applicant of 4 july 2012, the fourth contact session took place on 11 july 2012. a social worker from the kranj social work centre who was supervising the contact session noted in her report that the applicant was tired during the contact session and stopped playing with e. after a couple of minutes. it was noted in the reports of the contact sessions of 2 july 2014 and 10 september 2014 that the applicant had made efforts to establish a connection with e., which had led to some interaction between them. according to those records, she answered that she had been too busy with other things. following an appeal by the applicant, on 16 april 2013 the koper higher court quashed the first-instance court’s decision in the part relating to the applicant and remitted the case for re-examination. acknowledging that the illness could be controlled and the symptoms managed by medication, as well as noting that the course of the condition depended on each individual, dr m. stressed that the prognosis for the applicant’s illness was not good, and therefore it was not possible to expect her to be able to take care of e. in particular, it was noted that, notwithstanding the episodes of remission, schizophrenia, like some other mental illnesses, led gradually to a permanent deterioration in a person’s capacities, and such a process would occur despite the applicant’s medical treatment. in the constitutional court’s view, that provision did not imply that the state was to protect the child’s interests only when he or she was threatened by the deliberate actions or omissions of his or her parents. she also found it questionable whether the applicant had been given sufficient opportunity to form a bond with e., and argued that the positive obligations imposed on the authorities, including the cerknica centre, had been disregarded. on 2 june 2016 the decision became final and the foster care in respect of e. was terminated and in effect replaced by the adoption. she requested that contact sessions take place every fortnight for three hours. she did not appeal against that decision, nor did she lodge a constitutional complaint.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1987 respectively. on 5 april 2009 general elections took place in moldova. 18919/10, §§ 7-10 and 33-37, 6 december 2011, buhaniuc v. the republic of moldova, no. the first applicant was asked to identify her bag. took the applicants one by one to another adjacent room. during 7 and 8 april 2009 the officers would come every three hours to the cell where the applicants were being detained, officially in order to verify their presence. on the morning of 9 april 2009 a prosecutor visited their cell and asked whether anyone had been ill-treated or had any other complaints. after finding their files and reading them for several seconds, the judge declared that five days of detention for each of the applicants would suffice. the entire “trial” took not more than five minutes. following that the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs conducted, in april-may 2009, an internal investigation into the matter in order to verify the allegations. to the room in which she had been verbally abused and forced to fully undress by v.d., on 23 july 2009 the applicants made a complaint to the prosecutor general’s office, referring to the verbal abuse to which they had been subjected, as well as to the order to undress in front of male officers. on 10 september 2009 the military prosecutor’s office, which had been tasked with examining all complaints of ill-treatment during the events of april 2009, decided not to launch a criminal investigation in response to the applicants’ complaint of 23 july 2009 to the prosecutor general’s office, in the absence of any evidence that an offence had been committed. had ill-treated the applicants by means of psychological intimidation and forcing them to undress in front of persons of the opposite sex. to five years’ imprisonment, conditionally suspending the execution of both sentences for a probation period of five years. the prosecutor summarised the applicants’ statements and referred to the results of the identity parades during which each of the applicants had identified a.c. when one young woman (n.) had looked away, he had hit the back of her head, as a result of which her forehead had struck the wall. the second applicant had given a similar description, noting that when she had entered the detention facility she had seen many persons against the wall, many of whom had been beaten by the police, while not offering any resistance. he continued to work as a police officer throughout the proceedings. on 4 june 2010 the lawyer asked a more senior prosecutor to annul the decisions taken on 16 and 22 april 2010.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in viljandi. at the time of the events at issue, the applicant was serving a prison sentence for robbery and violence against a prison official. according to the risk assessment contained in his individual management plan drawn up by tartu prison on 16 january 2013 (kinnipeetava individuaalne täitmiskava), the applicant had been punished five times for criminal acts and was assessed to be a danger to the public, prone to risks and impulsive. permission for prison leave under supervision (lühiajaline väljaviimine) was granted on 14 may 2013. on 15 may 2013 the applicant and his brother (also a prisoner in the same prison), were to be transported to the funeral service in the same prison van. the applicant signed a document about the prison escort regime (kinnipeetavale isikule lühiajalise väljaviimise raames kohaldatav saatmisrežiim) which explained the rules about being escorted, including the obligation to wear hand and ankle cuffs. it was a volkswagen crafter van used by the prison since october 2010, which had one four-person compartment and four single occupancy compartments. each single occupancy compartment was at least 60 cm wide, 149 cm high and 85 cm long, with a floor area of 0.51 square metres. the prison van reached the vehicle access gate of the prison premises. the applicant then decided not to go to the funeral and was taken back to the prison approximately twenty minutes later. his brother was thereafter transported to the funeral at 10.02 a.m. and reached the cemetery at 10.57 a.m. 11. he added that the van compartment had been too small and without safety equipment, making him fear for his life. on 4 december 2013, repeating the same complaints as those detailed above, the applicant lodged a complaint against tartu prison with the tartu administrative court. on 11 march 2014 the tartu administrative court dismissed the applicant’s complaint. the court referred to the legal basis for using hand and ankle cuffs and considered it justified. with regard to the conditions in the transport van, the court noted that the applicant had refused to be transferred and therefore had never been subjected to the conditions described. the court considered it plausible that the applicant had decided not to attend the funeral because he had not wanted his relatives to have a bad impression of him. however, there was no sign that the prison authorities had particularly wanted to degrade him in front of his family by resorting to the use of hand and ankle cuffs. on 7 october 2014 the tartu court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. on 11 february 2015 the supreme court refused him leave to appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in batman. there is no further information in the case file as to any other action taken by the fact-finding commission. it had however discovered that the contamination was concentrated outside the walls surrounding the tüpraş refinery and that no leakage had been observed around the ant pipeline. it is not clear whether and when this report was made public. technical limitations prevented the determination of the source of the leak with absolute certainty. however, the interpretation of the available data suggested that pollution of such great magnitude could only have been caused over a long period by a facility with a high capacity of petroleum refining and storage in the vicinity, which pointed to the tüpraş refinery (a conclusion which was challenged by tüpraş and tpao representatives). in accordance with the proposal in the above interim report, on 17 august 2005 the local environment board of the batman governor’s office decided that no business or occupation permits should be granted in the area designated as the “red zone”, which consisted of an area of 200 x 300 metres where the contamination was at its highest, until the underground clean-up operation in the area was completed. it was estimated that the leak had been ongoing for a very long time and that it involved some four to six thousand tonnes of phenol. in a report issued on 16 june 2005, experts from the dokuz eylül university in i̇zmir stated, inter alia, that the oil leak at issue had, in all likelihood, emanated from tüpraş. the public prosecutor relied as evidence on the commission reports mentioned in paragraphs 10 to 24 above. at the first hearing held on 28 january 2005, a representative of the victims claimed that even if the oil leak which had caused the explosion had originated from the ant pipeline, tüpraş, as the supplier of the oil into that pipeline, remained responsible for the explosion. the tüpraş executives mainly made the following arguments in their defence statements. (vi)  all product lines at the tüpraş refinery were above ground and consistently monitored. on 1 may 2008 the batman assize court delivered its judgment on the case. on 17 january 2012 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court and discontinued the proceedings as prosecution of the offence in question had become time-barred. (iv) in addition to their legal responsibility arising from the failure to detect and prevent the leak in a timely manner, the state authorities were responsible on account of their negligence in authorising the establishment of residences and businesses in such close proximity to the refinery despite the apparent dangers it posed. in its response dated 19 december 2006, tüpraş claimed firstly that the applicant’s claims had become time-barred, as he had failed to lodge his action within one year of the date of the explosion. he reserved his right to subsequently increase his claim. the civil court held in its decision that both the original claims and the subsequent request to increase those original claims had been brought within the one-year time-limit set out in article 60 § 1 of the former code of obligations, bearing in mind that the relevant time-limit would only start running when both the damage and the tortfeasor responsible for that damage became known to the victim. on 25 september 2008 the 4th chamber of the court of cassation dismissed that request without providing any reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in barcelos. on 16 november 2010 the permanent council of the csm decided to open disciplinary proceedings against the applicant (disciplinary case no. on 27 january 2011 the judicial investigator informed the csm that he was about to begin the investigation in accordance with section 114(3) of the status of judges act (law no. drew up an indictment against the applicant, of which she was notified on 9 february 2011. one witness called by the applicant stated that he had been present during the telephone conversation in question and had not heard the applicant make the alleged remarks. however, he retracted his statement on 21 march 2011. with regard to the breach of the principle of equality she observed that she had lodged a complaint with the csm against the judicial inspector h.g. requested leave from the csm to stand down from the case, saying that he was the applicant’s “sworn enemy” following the accusations she had made against him in the context of her request for him to be withdrawn. ’s request to stand down and replaced him with another judicial investigator, judge a.v.n. on an unspecified date judge r. was placed in charge of the investigation as judicial investigator. on 26 may 2011 the judicial investigator drew up the indictment against the applicant. she requested that the indictment be set aside and that she be given additional time to prepare her defence. on 23 january 2012 the csm submitted its memorial in reply, which was notified to the applicant on 27 january 2012. on 7 june 2011, following information received from the judicial investigator f.m.j., on an unspecified date the applicant received notice of the indictment, which proposed that she be removed from her post for acting in breach of her duties of loyalty and propriety. she admitted having had a private conversation with f.m.j., as it emerges from the minutes of the plenary sitting of the csm held on the same day, the applicant’s request was refused on the ground that the statutory rights of the defence had been respected and that there was no legal basis for holding a public hearing before the csm sitting in plenary. or cast doubt on their credibility, and (ii) to establish which member of the csm formation had made public certain details of the deliberations in the case before the decision had been delivered;
(d)  that no reasons had been given for the refusal to suspend enforcement of the penalty; and
(e)  that the penalty imposed had been disproportionate to the acts of which she had been accused. in a judgment of 8 may 2013 the judicial division of the supreme court unanimously dismissed the appeal. the supreme court held as follows:
“whether or not the provisions governing a special administrative action [ação administrativa especial] to set aside an administrative act permit the holding of a public hearing at an appellant’s request will naturally depend from the outset on the extent of the supreme court’s powers of review, as fashioned and regulated specifically by the status of judges act, with regard to the establishment of the facts and the taking of evidence in connection with the appeal.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in podgorica. some passers-by separated x from the applicant, after which x left the scene saying “i will bring a knife and a hammer to kill you”. and inflicting light bodily injuries on him. the proceedings on those two indictments were joined into a single set of proceedings. it transpires from the case file that after that attack, x had been arrested and then released, but there is no information as to the exact dates. he was readmitted to hospital between 22 august and 21 october 2016, apparently at his own request. on 27 may 2013 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the state, seeking 1,700 euros (eur) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. owing to the failure of the state to undertake any preventive measure in respect of x, the applicant had been attacked by him and had suffered injuries. in the course of the proceedings, on 20 december 2013 the court heard z.ɖ., had looked for x in order to talk to him but had been unable to find him for the next two days. on 19 february 2015 the court of first instance ruled against the applicant. the court held that the police had acted as required, notably by taking x’s statements and forwarding them to the competent prosecutor for further processing. in addition, after the attack x had been criminally prosecuted and found guilty. relying on section 148(1) of the obligations act, the court held as follows:
“the court dismisses as factually and legally unfounded the applicant’s submissions that the state ought to have hospitalised x before the event here in issue, as the state bodies did order his hospitalisation as soon as the conditions for that had been met. the court stated that it had examined other submissions but found that they did not influence its verdict. b) four months thereafter, x had attacked and injured the applicant; and (c) three days before the attack the applicant had complained to the police that x had threatened him. on 28 june 2006 he was found guilty of setting his flat on fire and was ordered to undergo mandatory outpatient psychiatric treatment. that period of hospitalisation would appear to have been prompted by an attempt by x to commit suicide by taking a large quantity of medication. there is no information as to whether x had any treatment or a medical check-up thereafter. two of the three medical reports state that x had regularly been taking medication.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in istanbul. the public prosecutor instructed the police to take the statements of those who could have information as to the two children’s whereabouts, and to keep him informed of developments. she had noticed that aykan had looked somewhat anxious before leaving home, and that he had forgotten to wear his school tie and socks. although her son aykut had had a mobile telephone, he had left the telephone at home that day. she added that she had no reason to suspect anyone with regard to her children’s disappearance. on 27 november 2007 the kartal public prosecutor’s office asked the turkish telecommunication institution to provide a record of the individuals who had called aykut aka’s mobile telephone in the past three months, together with their complete identity information and addresses. the male corpse recovered by the divers deployed to the incident site was fully dressed in a school uniform and wearing a rucksack. it was decided to transfer the body to the forensic medicine institute for a full autopsy, without which the definite cause of death could not be established. on the same day, officers from the sarıyer security directorate prepared an incident scene report. when he had picked up the telephone, a woman unknown to him had asked why he had answered that telephone, and then had hung up. words: aykan aka written by: aykan aka [and signature]. i am giving my life to his holiness azrael, this is wonderful”. the principal said that aykut had been talkative and a successful student. aykan, on the other hand, had not had good marks, and, according to his schoolmates, had not been very sociable. the post mortem examination conducted subsequently found that the cause of death appeared to be drowning. the call records enclosed with that letter were not submitted to the court. however, a handwritten note on the letter, by an unknown author, indicates that no significant calls were detected in the records. he claimed in particular that the public prosecutor had failed to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the incident. he had not fully investigated his sons’ telephone records or cctv footage that could have revealed information regarding their deaths, nor had he questioned his sons’ close friends. a number of viewers had called the studio with possible information on the incident, yet the public prosecutor’s office had not sought those individuals out with a view to getting official statements.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in villavente (león). he worked as a teacher, also acting as head of department, in a public school, the león school of arts and crafts (escuela de artes y oficios de león). one of his colleagues – a teacher in the same department – filed a complaint against him with the education authorities for psychological harassment in the workplace. she requested that the administration be found liable for the alleged psychological harassment in the workplace. the competent authorities did not render a decision within the requisite time-limit. on 25 january 2007 the colleague instituted judicial proceedings (recurso contencioso-administrativo) against the implied rejection of her request of 20 june 2006. she claimed that the applicant had subjected her to workplace harassment, from the academic year 2000/01 onwards in particular, and that the competent authorities had failed to take any measures to prevent it. she described a series of events in which the applicant had allegedly made false accusations against her and subjected her to discriminatory and humiliating treatment, disrespect, insults and death threats at work in the presence of students, parents and other colleagues. 2491/2011) of 2 november 2011, the high court of justice of castilla-león (administrative chamber) ruled against the regional administration of castilla-león, ordering it to pay compensation to the plaintiff in the amount of eur 14,500. it concluded that the situation suffered by her amounted to workplace harassment and that the education authorities, despite being aware of the situation, had not taken effective measures to bring it to an end. although the court acknowledged that not all the acts or behaviour attributed to the applicant could be considered psychological harassment, it found that on the basis of the evidence collected a situation of psychological harassment in the workplace had been shown to exist. on 15 december 2011 the applicant requested to have access to the file and to become a party to the proceedings. on 1 february 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the above-mentioned decision requesting the annulment of the proceedings. on the one hand, the court held that the request for annulment of the proceedings had been made outside the time-limit prescribed by law, since an “appeal for annulment” (incidente de nulidad) should have been submitted within twenty days of the date the applicant became aware of a possible breach of his rights. the court nevertheless decided on the merits. therefore, in line with section 145 of law 30/1992 and the relevant subordinate legislation, within such proceedings neither the authorities nor civil servants could be sued nor, accordingly, could they be a party to the proceedings. lastly, the court stated that the public official concerned would only be considered to be an interested party in a recovery action (acción de repetición) under section 145(2) of law 30/1992, in which each and every one of the elements constituting the liability for which recovery was sought could be contested, including the acts attributed to him or her. according to the court, such proceedings were set up to facilitate redress and compensation for those affected by the acts of public officials. the applicant then lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court, invoking a breach of article 24 of the spanish constitution (right to a fair trial). he claimed that, despite his having a direct and personal interest in the proceedings on the basis that his rights and legitimate interests had been affected, he had not been summoned to appear and his request to become a party to the proceedings had been refused.
the applicants were born in 1958, 1977, 1956, 1981 and 1979, respectively (see appendix). he was also acquitted of the charges of unlawful assembly and association (reunión ilícita y asociación ilítica). the first applicant brought a cassation appeal before the supreme court, challenging, inter alia, the impartiality of the president of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional and judge rapporteur of that judgment (hereinafter “the presiding judge”), as she had displayed hostility towards him during those criminal proceedings. the first applicant had refused to give an answer. consequently, the supreme court declared that the judgment was void and ordered a re-trial by a new panel formed by three other judges different from the ones that were part of the composition of that panel. as a result, a new and different composition of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional tried the applicant on the charge of encouragement of terrorism. on 22 july 2011 the audiencia nacional acquitted the applicant. the applicants were accused of being members of this terrorist organisation. these proceedings were allocated to the fourth section of the audiencia nacional, whose composition consisted of the same judges that had taken part in the first set of criminal proceedings followed against the first applicant, which ended with the judgment of 2 march 2010, finally declared void by the supreme court on 2 february 2011. this time the presiding judge was not the judge rapporteur. on 16 september 2011 the audiencia nacional delivered its judgment and sentenced the first and third applicants to ten years’ imprisonment for being a member and leader of a terrorist organisation. all the applicants brought a cassation appeal before the supreme court. the disqualification from taking part in elections was confirmed. however, the supreme court rejected the applicants’ arguments concerning the alleged violation of the their right to an impartial tribunal by declaring that the bias displayed by the presiding judge against one of the applicants during previous and different proceedings did not reach the necessary threshold to believe that the judges (and, specifically, the presiding judge) had become again biased or prejudiced, not only against the first applicant but against all of them. according to the supreme court, there was no evidence apart from what happened in previous proceedings that supported the alleged partiality of the judges. two of the supreme court’s judges issued two separate dissenting opinions. according to the first dissenting opinion (which was endorsed, in substance, by the second dissenting judge), the applicants’ right to an impartial tribunal had indeed been violated, because the preconceived idea showed by the presiding judge in previous criminal proceedings against the first applicant also affected her judgment during subsequent proceedings. this lack of impartiality also had affected the other two judges of the panel. consequently, a new trial before a different panel of judges should have been ordered. on 27 june 2012 the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court against these judgments, arguing, inter alia, that the panel composition of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional fell short of the requirements of an impartial tribunal.
the applicants are ukrainian nationals of roma ethnicity. they currently live in berezivka district, odessa region. according to the statement of the village mayor, mr m.s., a council member, d., stated that whatever the wording of the decision it would have no legal consequences and that legal action against drug dealers would also be ineffective. in fact, it was not possible to keep the situation under control. electricity and gas supplies to their houses were cut. according to the government, the results of the expert analysis of the causes of the fire were inconclusive (see paragraph 118 below). according to the fifth applicant’s statement, dated 17 november 2007, she and the fourth applicant (her husband) had been away from the village at the time of the events and had only learned about them when they had returned on 20 september. the applicants submitted eight undated photographs showing the ruins of one or several houses, certain photographs showing signs of fire. in her statement (addressed to ms duducehava) and dated 13 june 2004 this applicant complained of having been expelled from her home but did not mention that she had personally witnessed any attack. the events were reported in a number of regional and national newspapers. on 20 september 2002 an officer of the ivanivka police questioned neighbours of some of the applicants. from 23 september 2002 to 27 january 2003 at least sixty village residents, including o.м. this had been done to ensure that roma would be expelled from the village. on 20 february 2003 the ivanivsky district prosecutor’s office (“the dpo”) refused to institute criminal proceedings against the village council’s officials for lack of constituent elements of a crime in their actions. on 1 april 2003 the regional police investigator suspended it again. the head of the district police department, as being among the officials who had allowed it. on 31 december 2005 the head of the regional police informed mr stoyanov that the investigation had been suspended on 1 april 2003 and that the regional prosecutor’s office had examined the case and left the decision to suspend it in force. on 25 september 2008 the dpo informed mr stoyanov that the investigation had been lawfully suspended and that the aggrieved parties could only examine the case file once the investigation had been completed. they asked the court to order the police to recognise them as such.
the applicant company, narodni list d.d., is a joint stock company incorporated under croatian law which has its registered office in zadar. it was the publisher of a weekly magazine, narodni list. on the morning of 23 november 2006 ms z.s.-k., he was immediately brought in for questioning by the police, after which he was released. lodged a criminal complaint against the journalist in question, stating that he had committed the criminal offence of making an unauthorised recording, as defined in article 131 of the criminal code. the day after, on 24 november 2006, the police again questioned a.m., after which they lodged a criminal complaint against him with the zadar municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zadru). on the same day, 24 november 2006, a web portal, index, reported on the search of narodni list’s premises. the short article implicitly criticised the search by noting that judge z.s.-k. who had issued the warrant to search the applicant company’s premises, attended the opening of another newspaper in zadar started by mr s., a controversial local entrepreneur. the judge thereby again caught the attention of the journalists of narodni list. came to congratulate s. on starting a daily newspaper. on the basis of that authorisation a herd of policemen raided [the premises of] narodni list looking for photos of his colleague, judge s.-k. that [set] a precedent unknown in western democracies. asked the newspaper to publish an apology but it refused to do so. by a judgment of 10 march 2010 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant company to pay him hrk 50,000[2] in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in the form of his tarnished reputation, as well as hrk 6,005[3] with respect to costs of proceedings. the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows:
“it is undisputed between the parties that the impugned text constitutes a value judgment ...
...
section 21(1) of the media act prescribes that a publisher who causes damage to another person by [publishing] information in the media is obliged to compensate [that person], except in cases prescribed by the same act (section 21(4)). however, there is no justification for it. in that sense the following statements are worth noting: ‘b’s arrival would have gone unnoticed had this judge not become ‘famous’ [even] outside croatia’s borders by illegally signing the warrant to search [the premises of] narodni list’ and ‘what b. is doing in journalistic circles is known only to the crew around s. in the western world journalists put such judges in the pillory’. [ it also relied on article 10 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in palaio faliro. she has worked as a kindergarten teacher for the greek ministry of education since 1983. on 23 august 2005, following her participation in a selection procedure, she was appointed educational coordinator of the hellenic republic at the general consulate of greece in chicago for a period of two years. on 14 august 2007 the ministers of education and foreign affairs issued a decision informing all educational coordinators abroad of the end of their term of service. the applicant’s name was omitted from the second ministerial decision and the post of educational coordinator in chicago remained vacant. in the meantime, a call for applications for educational coordinators for the next two-year period was published on 27 november 2007. on 23 july 2008 the coordinators selection committee published a ranking of candidates in which the applicant, having received 48.00 points, was placed 13th among those who had chosen french as their foreign language. that decision was revoked and replaced with a ministerial decision dated 29 august 2008 including the same content. the hearing was scheduled to take place on 13 november 2009, but was adjourned to 5 march 2010. on 3 february 2010 the applicant submitted additional grounds of annulment. on 27 may 2010 the applicant sent a memorandum to the court, requesting that the case be heard speedily, adding that an eventual discontinuation of the trial would violate her rights under article 6 § 1 of the convention. nevertheless, the hearing was again adjourned owing to the ministry’s failure to provide submissions. adjournments took place on 4 june, 17 september and on 8 october 2010. on 26 october 2010, the ministry sent its observations to the court, and a hearing took place on 10 december 2010, when the two-year term for educational coordinators and the contested ministerial decision had already expired. in particular, she argued that if the contested act was annulled she would be credited with two more years of experience, which would improve her chances of being selected as a deputy coordinator of education in a future selection procedure. on 16 march 2011 the athens administrative court of appeal published decision no. 508/2011 rejecting the applicant’s arguments. as regards the applicant’s arguments that the eventual rejection of her application would violate article 20 of the constitution and article 6 § 1 of the convention, the domestic court held that the provision of article 32 § 2 of presidential decree no. 18/1989 served the legal aim of avoiding any unnecessary trials. having also regard to the possibility provided for by law to continue the trial if the individual could prove that he or she still suffered from unfavourable consequences that could be removed only by the annulment of the contested act, the right to judicial protection remained intact.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in the village of akhaldaba. first ran up to his son, whose body was shaking, and then ran home to bring his car back to help him. it appears that he later told the police that he had witnessed the crime. according to them, however, the victim passed by their plot at around 9 a.m. and they heard shots after about fifteen to twenty minutes. to the crime scene, without mentioning that he had witnessed the murder, or that he knew anything about it. could recall seeing him in the village shop sometime between 10 and 11 a.m. he stated that the shop was located approximately two kilometres from the crime scene. he was not with the brothers at the time. a forensic biological examination report (no. it continued to note that at around 10 a.m., the applicant and the brothers had gone to the victim’s farm and killed him with a gun. in addition, the court relied on the forensic biological examination (see paragraph 11 above) and forensic soil examination (see paragraph 12 above), and other forensic evidence such as a forensic examination of the victim’s body and of the hand grenade, without elaborating on their relevance to the applicant’s conviction. on 13 june 2006 only the applicant appealed against the judgment of 8 may 2006. he emphasised that unlike his co-accused, no piece of forensic evidence available in the criminal case file implicated him personally in the crime. might have been implicating him out of revenge. on 21 september 2006 the supreme court, sitting as a court of second and final instance, held a hearing and upheld the lower court’s verdict. the toilet in the cell was not separated from the living area. he also alleged that there were rodents in his cell. on 16 december 2006 the applicant was transferred to rustavi prison no. it does not appear that the applicant lodged any complaints in that respect. the applicant’s submissions dated 29 january 2009 revealed that he had been seen by a neurologist on an unspecified date in october 2008. on 19 november 2008 an ultrasound exam was performed which confirmed the diagnosis of the chronic inflammation of the gallbladder.
he is currently serving a life sentence in marche-en-famenne prison (belgium). in a judgment of 21 december 2007, the investigation division of the court of appeal of douai (france), after acknowledging that the applicant had not renounced his entitlement to the rule of speciality[1], ordered his surrender to the belgian judicial authorities for the execution of the above‑mentioned arrest warrant. the applicant was assisted before the investigation division by a lawyer, ms a., of the douai bar. during that first interview, the applicant explained that he had met m.b. following her death, from a mobile phone belonging to him. except for the first police interview record, of which a copy was given to him after his examination by the investigating judge later that day, the applicant received his copies immediately after being questioned. it is not in dispute that the applicant was not allowed to communicate with a lawyer between the time of his surrender to the belgian authorities and the end of his period in police custody on 31 december 2007. on 11 january 2008 the applicant was again interviewed by the criminal investigation police. when examined again by the investigating judge on 17 march 2008, the judge asked the applicant if he had chosen a lawyer. ’s murder, the applicant confessed to having stolen a document from the case file, although the authorities had been unaware of this. at the scene of the crime at the time when m.b. the two eyewitnesses took part in the reconstruction (see paragraphs 10 and 24 above). an arrest warrant was issued on 8 august 2008 extending the investigating judge’s remit, on the basis of the submissions of the crown prosecutor dated 23 may 2008 and 7 july 2008, to three additional offences: the attempted murder of m.b. he replied that he wished to consult with his lawyer on this matter. acknowledging that the applicant had not ultimately given his consent, in a judgment of 13 january 2009 the investigation division of the douai court of appeal agreed to extend his surrender for the purposes of a criminal prosecution to the three above-mentioned additional charges. the applicant complained that the absence of a lawyer had necessarily caused him damage. on 5 november 2007 and of the attempted premeditated murder of c.l. the jury’s reasons were set out in the assize court’s “reasoning judgment” (arrêt de motivation) of the same day. on account of its lack of precision, the weight that the appellant attaches to a fair trial cannot trump the above-mentioned principle of legality, whereby the investigation, prosecution and trial can only proceed in accordance with pre-existing and accessible statutes. this does not appear to have been the case.
the applicants were born in 1977 and 1964, respectively, and live in voronezh. the applicants are lawyers practicing in russia. between 2008 and 2010 the applicants, within the group of lawyers, consulted several municipal organisations about various legal issues and provided other legal service. however municipal organisations did not pay for the service and the applicants instituted proceedings seeking to recover the debt. on 22 june 2010 the sovetskiy district court of voronezh granted the applicants claim against the municipal transport company and awarded them 40,020,000 russian roubles. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. it appears that the judgment was executed at the expense of the municipal budget. on 9 january 2013 the prosecutor of the voronezh region applied to the district court for the extension of the time-limits for an ordinary appeal against the judgment of 22 june 2010. on 13 june 2013 the district court refused to extend the time-limits. on 8 august 2013 the voronezh regional court quashed the decision of the district court and extended the time limit for an ordinary appeal. the court found that the public interest had been concerned as far as the judgment had been executed by means of the municipal budget. thus the prosecutor had the right to lodge an appeal. on 12 november 2013 the voronezh regional court granted the appeal lodged by the prosecutor and quashed the judgment of 22 june 2010 and ordered the reversal of execution. the judgment became final and was partially executed.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in muğla. on an unspecified date the applicant brought an enforcement order through a bailiff’s office against her former husband, g.f., to collect alimony in arrears and accrued interest. objected to that order by bringing a case against the applicant before the datça enforcement court. he requested that the court declare the enforcement order null and void on the grounds that he had made the payments in question in full. ’s representative requested the court to take out an expert report to determine whether the payments he had made corresponded to the alleged debt. the court adjourned its examination on the question whether an expert report would be sought to a hearing to be held on 10 may 2006. in that hearing, the applicant’s representative left it to the court’s discretion for an expert to be appointed concerning the determination of the amounts that were already paid. the court therefore ruled for an expert to be appointed and scheduled another hearing for 7 june 2006. in the meantime, but before the hearing of 7 june 2006, the applicant’s representative requested that he be excused from that hearing since he had another scheduled court hearing elsewhere. the court held the hearing as scheduled but noted that the applicant’s representative was excused. in that hearing, the court noted that the expert report had been submitted in the case-file and read its contents out in the presence of g.f. the latter asked the court to rule in accordance with the findings in the expert report, which had concluded that all the relevant alimony payments had been made. the court scheduled a hearing for 21 june 2006 holding that the absent party be notified. on 21 june 2006, in its final hearing, the court ruled against the applicant on the basis of the expert report in question. neither the applicant nor her representative was present at that hearing. there is no indication in the transcript of the hearing that suggests that the court examined whether the applicant’s representative had been notified in due time. he explained in that connection that the expert’s calculations had been erroneous and did not correspond to the bank transfer receipts in the case-file. on 5 december 2006 the court of cassation upheld the decision of 21 june 2006 without responding to the applicant’s arguments. the applicant’s rectification request against that decision was rejected on 13 march 2007.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is a life-sentenced prisoner. he has been detained in x prison since 2008. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the escort plan also included a personal risk assessment. it was noted that the applicant reacted aggressively to lawful orders of the officials when he thought that they were being unreasonable and also in situations where he felt cornered. moreover, he was considered to become more dangerous in situations where he interpreted information in a manner expecting a favourable outcome for himself which nevertheless did not follow. on the same day the applicant was transferred from the prison to a public hospital. according to the applicant, he was not allowed to wear his own clothes during the visit. they submitted an explanation given on 11 august 2016 by a doctor at y hospital, who noted that he did not remember the particular visit, but asserted that although members of the escort team would normally stay in the examination room, a screen would be placed between them and the patient. the government also submitted detailed information about the hospital’s floor plan and noted that the relevant examination room measured 40 square metres, so the prison officers had not been in the immediate vicinity of the applicant. they stated that although it appeared from the note in the applicant’s escort plan that he had refused to see a doctor at the hospital because of his handcuffs and ankle cuffs, his medical file nonetheless revealed that a short meeting between the applicant and the doctor might have taken place. on 30 january 2012 the deputy director of the prison granted the applicant’s request to visit his newborn daughter (who had undergone surgery and was in a serious condition) in hospital. according to the applicant, the prison officers had been aware that the visiting hours at the hospital were from 12 noon to 7 p.m., but he had been transferred to the hospital at around 11 a.m. his visit with his daughter had lasted only ten minutes because he had been there during the time that medical procedures were being performed on the patients. staff had to be careful that the information was not heard by anyone other than the person concerned. the court joined the two sets of proceedings. it held that the use of handcuffs and ankle cuffs had been permitted by law, based on preventive security considerations and, as such, had been proportionate. the court did not address these complaints in its reasoning part of the judgment. by a judgment of 26 august 2014, the tartu court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s complaint in full, but amended some of the reasoning provided by the first-instance court. the regulation also required that at least one member of the escort team maintain visual contact with the prisoner at all times. the court did not address this complaint in its reasoning part of the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is detained in sivas. on the same day at 1.50 p.m. the applicant was examined at the silvan state hospital, in diyarbakır, by a doctor who observed the following on the applicant’s body: 2 cm-long scrape on his lower left chest, handcuff marks on his wrists, a traumatic scrape on the front side of his right leg. the doctor observed no unfitness for work. also on the same day at 5.45 p.m. the applicant was examined at the diyarbakır state hospital by another doctor who made similar findings as those mentioned in the first medical report. on 22 november 2002 the applicant was interviewed by police in the absence of a lawyer in the course of which he had allegedly sustained both physical and psychological ill-treatment. according to the applicant’s submissions, he was allegedly forced to sign some documents, as well as a declaration to waive his right to legal assistance. he further maintained that when he had wished to read the documents that he had been made to sign he had been threatened with further ill-treatment. according to the applicant, during the examination the police officers intervened and ordered the doctor to write that the applicant had some grazes on his wrists and ankles. on 23 november 2002 the applicant gave a statement to the public prosecutor in the absence of a lawyer in which he accepted the accusations against him. on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who took his statements in the absence of a lawyer in which he had accepted most of the statements he had given to the police. he further claimed that the police officers had threatened him with excessive length of proceedings and had told him that if he had accepted the charges they would help him and release him from detention. on 27 november 2002 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code with attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the state. on 19 march 2003 the diyarbakır state security court held the first hearing on the merits of the case. during the hearing, the applicant gave evidence without a lawyer in which he denied his previous statements and the accusations. he further stated, without providing any details, that he had been subjected to pressure while in police custody and that he had pressurised to sign his police statements without reading them. at a hearing held on 18 september 2003 the applicant submitted, without providing any details, that he had been tortured during the preliminary investigation. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. therefore, the diyarbakır assize court acquired jurisdiction over the case. relying on the medical report dated 23 november 2002, it also rejected the applicant’s contention that he had been tortured while in police custody. on 10 april 2008 the court of cassation upheld the trial court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tianchang, the people’s republic of china. and m.), who were picnicking nearby, approached them to get some beer. according to the report of the police officer on duty, su. none of the ukrainians expressed any suspicions about the applicant and he eventually left with his friends. on 2 may 2009 m. was questioned in hospital. m. considered that, most probably, it had been the applicant who had injured him. during an identification parade conducted that day sa. on an unspecified later date w. retracted his confession and submitted that he had only slightly injured d. and su. furthermore, several of the chinese witnesses told the police that w. had been particularly nervous after the incident, had destroyed the clothes he had been wearing on 1 may 2009 and had asked his parents for a considerable amount of money. on an unspecified date the investigation was declared completed and the kharkiv kyivskyy district court (“the kyivskyy court”) started the trial. as stated in its ruling, several people had seen metal skewers in w.’s hands, but nobody had seen the applicant holding a skewer, let alone stabbing m. sa. considered the applicant guilty of injuring m., it was established in the court hearing that none of them had seen how that had actually happened. the chinese students gave their account of the fight. it observed in particular that no effort had been made to establish the motive for the murder. on which the first‑instance court had based the applicant’s conviction, had been contradictory, inconsistent and speculative. on 2 july 2012 the kyivskyy court held that the deficiencies pointed out by the court of appeal in its ruling of 26 march 2012 had not been rectified and that the additional investigation, like the one carried out earlier, had been incomplete and superficial. on 24 july 2013 the kyivskyy court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. it held, however, that their statements had not been refuted by any forensic medical findings. he observed in particular that m. had been clear in his statement that the stabbing in his back had been a complete surprise for him and that he had never submitted that somebody had been “hanging on [his] back” as alleged by the witnesses. it found no reasons to consider the investigation at the trial superficial or otherwise flawed.
the first applicant was born in 1949 and lives in strasbourg, france. the second applicant was born in 1984 and lives in grozny, chechnya, russia. their property was damaged in the course of a counterterrorist operation in 1999-2000. their individual situations can be summarised as follows. in march 2005 the first applicant submitted an application for administrative compensation to the commission for compensation for lost property (комиссия по рассмотрению заявлений граждан о компенсационных выплатах за утраченное жилье и имущество, hereafter “the commission”). 25 in the destroyed apartment block at 21 tereshkova street. in june 2010 the applicant was informed that her application had not been examined by the commission since the building in question had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings. on 12 august 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected the first applicant’s claim, pointing out that the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the corresponding entry in the register. the first applicant’s subsequent attempts to obtain supervisory review were unsuccessful. in 2011 she was informed by the commission’s secretariat that the technical unit had not been operational since 2005 and that the commission did not know whether or when it would restart its work. in 2008 the applicant was registered as a person eligible for social housing because his flat had been destroyed during the hostilities. he was assigned number 1599 in the waiting list; in 2016 his number was 1579. the second applicant complained to a court. on 5 july 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected his complaint since the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the technical unit’s register. on 10 august 2010 the supreme court of chechnya upheld the decision on appeal. it had held a final meeting on 16 september 2013 and, according to the minutes of the meeting (no. 61), had rejected all claims lodged by the owners of property which had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings. in february 2008 the local district administration examined flat no. 12 at 53 kavkazskaya street, grozny, and concluded that it had been 100% destroyed. the applicant was issued with a certificate to that effect.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in chișinău. at the time of the events the applicant was the owner of a company, incorporated in moldova, which ran an erotic video-chat business in chișinău. it employed young female models who provided erotic shows via webcam to customers outside moldova in exchange for payment. on 3 march 2015 the applicant was arrested and accused of pimping (proxenetism). on 7 march 2015, at the request of a public prosecutor, the centru district court ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody for a period of thirty days. the applicant appealed against the order and argued that his detention had not been based on a reasonable suspicion that he had committed an offence. he submitted that he could not be accused of pimping, in that the female models employed by him had not been engaged in prostitution. he argued that the prosecutor and the court which had ordered his detention had applied an extensive interpretation of the provisions of the criminal code concerning the offence of pimping. the applicant also contended that there were no relevant and sufficient reasons for remanding him in custody. on 16 march 2015 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and held that there had been grounds to believe that he might abscond or interfere with the investigation. the court did not respond to the applicant’s argument about a lack of reasonable suspicion and the allegation of extensive interpretation of the criminal law. on 31 march 2015 the centru district court upheld a request by the public prosecutor and prolonged the applicant’s detention for another thirty days. the applicant appealed on the same grounds as on the first occasion. however, his appeal was dismissed by the court of appeal on 7 april 2015. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged a habeas corpus request, which was upheld by the centru district court on 27 april 2015; the applicant was released from detention. he also submitted that he had seen numerous similar businesses in chișinău, which had strengthened his belief that the activity was not unlawful. one of the conditions for applying the amnesty law was for the applicant to admit his guilt and express remorse. the applicant did not appeal against this decision. the opinion of 21 october 2015, which was the key element in convicting the applicant and was subsequently used in other similar cases, stated that the actions of the female models employed by the applicant could be considered acts of prostitution, in that their clients could obtain sexual gratification as a result of the models’ performance and because the models were paid for those acts. thus, the fact that the applicant obtained revenue from the above activity could be considered pimping.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is a life-sentenced prisoner. he has been detained in x prison since 2008. during the relevant period he was detained in the increased surveillance wing of the prison. the attacked prisoner was taken to hospital following the incident. according to the applicant’s explanation to the prison he had considered it necessary to punish his fellow inmate, as he had allegedly behaved arrogantly towards him. it took into account the stabbing incident of 11 february 2012, the applicant’s history of aggressive behaviour and emotional characteristics (see paragraphs 12–13 below), and the need to ensure the health and safety of all those employed and detained in the prison. the decisions indicated that they had to be served on the applicant. taking this into account, as well as the fact that on 30 may 2012 the applicant had, in a telephone call to the ministry of justice, said that he would be left with no option but to assault a prison officer, the prison authorities held that it would not be possible to discontinue the additional security measures. it was considered that he might pose a danger to the prison officers, particularly at the moment when the door was being opened, regardless of whether or not he was to be escorted outside of his cell. the measures were subject to review within no more than six months after being served on the applicant. on 9 january 2014 the tartu court of appeal adopted a decision to join the cases in the second and third sets of court proceedings (see paragraph 29 below). the court noted that the prison had discretion in deciding whether to apply additional security measures and thus the judicial review of such decisions was limited. on 5 june 2014 it refused to examine the appeal. on 15 february 2013 the prison administration prolonged the application of additional security measures after giving the applicant the opportunity to express his opinion about the planned prolongation. on 7 april 2013 the applicant lodged a complaint with the tartu administrative court, seeking to have the decision of 15 february 2013 annulled. on 28 february 2014 it adopted a judgment reversing the judgment of the tartu administrative court of 4 october 2013 in part. according to the list, the applicant had had a television set in his cell since 26 july 2012. the applicant had the right to make telephone calls and send letters. between 5 september 2012 and 13 march 2013 the applicant participated in a social reintegration programme entitled “the right moment” (focusing on issues such as the mapping of problems, emotions and thoughts; expression and verbalisation of feelings; coping with conflict and tolerating different viewpoints) and between 27 march and 31 july 2013 in the “anger management” programme. on 23 august 2016 a psychiatrist issued a certificate stating that, based on a psychological assessment, the applicant did not have an irrational fear of forests (see paragraphs 41 and 58 below).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in zagreb. on 21 july 2000 the police temporarily seized the applicant’s vehicle, which had canadian number plates, suspecting that it had been stolen by an unknown perpetrator. on 24 july and 1 september 2000 police experts examined the car and established that its vehicle identification number (vin) was genuine. in the meantime, on 21 july 2000 the police asked the canadian interpol office to check whether the applicant’s car and two other vehicles were being sought by the police in canada, under whose name they had been registered, whether they had been registered for export, and whether the car documents were genuine. on 29 december 2000 the police asked the zagreb state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu) to decide on the status of the vehicle. on 23 march 2001 the zagreb state attorney’s office instructed the police to ask for the relevant information from the canadian interpol office. on 18 march 2002 the police asked the canadian interpol office to expedite the handling of their request for information. according to the available data, the canadian interpol office did not respond to the request of the police. on 22 july 2003 the applicant brought a civil action for compensation against the state in the zagreb municipal court (općinski sud u zagrebu). he argued that the car had been returned to him in a state of disrepair because it had not been stored properly and, in any event, it had fallen in value during the two years it had been kept by the police, which had been an unreasonably long period. he sought 55,275.95 croatian kunas (hrk; approximately 7,126 euros (eur) at the relevant time) in compensation. the opinion of an expert obtained by the court during the proceedings suggested that the cost of repairing the applicant’s car amounted to hrk 35,275.95 and that its value had dropped by hrk 22,000. by a judgment of 16 december 2008 the municipal court dismissed the applicant’s civil action. its decision was upheld on 30 june 2009 by the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu). the courts held that the temporary seizure of the applicant’s car had been lawful as it had been based on articles 177, 184 and 218 of the code of criminal procedure, and that therefore the state could not be held liable for damages. by a decision of 21 february 2012 the supreme court declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible, finding that the legal question he had raised was not important for the uniform application of the law. on 23 january 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served its decision on his representative on 7 february 2014. the court examined the case primarily under article 29 § 1 of the croatian constitution, which guarantees the right to fair procedure, and held that the contested judgments had not been arbitrary. as regards the applicant’s argument that his right of ownership guaranteed by article 48 of the constitution had been violated, the constitutional court held as follows:
“the constitutional court protects the right of ownership at the constitutional level in a manner that prevents any restriction or taking of [property] by the state authorities, unless the restriction or taking is provided for by law ...
... interferences with ownership by other legal subjects (natural or legal persons) are property disputes of a private-law nature. the constitutional court did not find any such circumstances in the complainant’s case.
on 11 august 2006 the applicant, who suffered from schizophrenia, was arrested in his parents’ flat following an argument with his relatives. the court, in connection with that incident, in its judgment of v.d. in the meantime, the suspect police officers challenged the decision to reopen the investigation. the applicant was then summoned to appear on 30 october 2014. as they had had a dispute, somebody had called the police, who had intervened at the scene. he had managed to bite one of the police officers and as he had been in agony from the beating, he had also bitten his own tongue. the applicant also stated that there had been two paramedics present at the scene. on 5 november 2014 the applicant’s lawyer asked the state attorney’s office to send her a copy of the record of the applicant’s questioning. on 28 november 2014 a copy of the record was sent to her. who had witnessed the incident, as well as the relevant police officers. had left the room where that had been happening. the police officers denied ill-treating the applicant. as that person had in the meantime moved out of zagreb, on 28 november 2014 he was interviewed by telephone. the latter stated that the injuries to the applicant’s face could not have been caused when the police officers had attempted to prevent the applicant from self-harming by holding his face, but that it was possible that he had banged his head against the stretcher while being transported by the paramedics. stressed that, likewise, the tongue laceration which the applicant had sustained could have been caused by his fall and by him banging his head against the stretcher. also explained that, having seen the photographs of the applicant taken after the incident, he did not believe that the injuries he had sustained had been caused by beating, but were likely to have been caused by the commotion during the arrest. it was served on his lawyer the next day. on 6 december 2007 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the state in the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), seeking damages for the injuries sustained during his arrest. the injuries on his face had not been properly documented but such injuries were usually caused by punches delivered with lesser intensity. on 31 march 2014 the zagreb municipal civil court ruled in the applicant’s favour.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. these five applications concern his arrests on seven occasions at different public events. according to the government, the applicant was holding an irregular gathering without prior notification and was shouting political slogans. on 15 march 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. the court questioned one further eyewitness, a journalist, who testified that before being arrested the applicant was standing “in a fountain, holding hands with others” and chanting political slogans. he also testified that the police officers who had placed the applicant in the police bus were the same officers who had signed the report and who had appeared at the first-instance hearing. on 8 may 2012 some areas of central moscow were restricted for traffic, and partly also to pedestrians, due to the presidential inauguration and the victory day celebrations. they were surrounded by riot police and the applicant was arrested without any order or warning. the applicant was released at 2.50 a.m. on 9 may 2012. the applicant was absent from the proceedings, but he was represented by his lawyer, who disputed the applicant’s participation in an irregular assembly and claimed that his client had not chanted any slogans. he was among 50 to 100 people peacefully “walking about” and discussing current affairs. the justice of the peace refused the applicant’s requests that the police officers who had arrested him be called and examined, and that video evidence be admitted, but granted his request for examination of three eyewitnesses. and had refused to leave the square, which needed to be cleared for the victory day celebrations. at 3.30 p.m. the police arrested the applicant at 9 maroseyka street when he was walking down the street accompanied by a group of people. 387 of the basmannyy district examined the charges. the judgment was to be delivered at a public hearing on that date. he therefore remained outside among other members of the public wishing to attend the hearing. the applicant’s request for two eyewitnesses to be examined was granted. on the basis of the written reports by the two police officers, the judge found the applicant guilty of taking part in a meeting which had not been notified to the competent authority in accordance with the procedure provided by law, and fined him rub 10,000 (equivalent to about eur 200) under article 20 § 2 of the code of administrative offences. on 22 may 2014 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 7 march 2014.
the first applicant was born in 1955 and at the time of the events lived in baku. the second applicant was born in 1986 and resides in baku. the medical documentation in the case file shows that the first applicant suffered from a number of serious illnesses before his arrest. he also suffered from a number of cardiovascular diseases and twice underwent surgery on his heart. as a result of the above-mentioned illnesses, he had very limited physical mobility. on 11 july 2007 the court of appeal dismissed the appeal. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:
“the court bench considers that the first-instance court, having taken into account that a. aslanov could obstruct the investigation, the nature of the criminal act, and the fact that the punishment for committing such an act is over two years’ imprisonment, was correct in considering it necessary to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of him. on 22 june 2007 the first applicant’s state of health significantly deteriorated and he was urgently transferred to the medical facility of the penitentiary service (“the medical facility”). on 22 january 2008 the first applicant’s situation worsened during his dialysis at the central oil workers’ hospital. a post mortem report dated 25 january 2008 also concluded that the death had resulted from acute heart failure. on 28 february 2008 the first applicant’s family was provided with a copy of that decision. it does not appear from the case file that that decision was appealed. on 9 july 2007 the investigator in charge of the case ordered a forensic medical examination. the two experts issued forensic medical report no. on 27 september and 11 october 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the ministry of justice to provide him with a copy of the document listing the serious illnesses precluding the detention of prisoners. on 23 november 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer lodged a civil action with the sabail district court, complaining of incompatibility of the first applicant’s detention with his state of health and inadequate medical treatment. on an unspecified date the criminal investigation was completed and the case was referred to the assize court for trial. the first applicant requested that the court discontinue his pre-trial detention. but that the planned murder had not been completed for reasons beyond his own control. on 28 october 2008 the supreme court upheld the first applicant’s conviction.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in zheleznodorozhnyy, moscow region. the applicant was a locomotive driver with russian railways in the moscow region. he was a member of one of the railway workers’ trade unions, rosprofzhel (“the trade union”). on 7 april 2008 the trade union entered into negotiations with russian railways, seeking a general pay raise and the introduction of long‑service bonuses for the relevant staff. as the negotiations failed, the trade union decided to organise a strike. on 25 april 2008 the trade union committee decided that the staff of russian railways in two suburban moscow sectors should participate in the strike as from 4 a.m. on 28 april 2008. russian railways did not apply to the courts for the strike to be declared unlawful. on 28 april 2008 the applicant took part in the strike. he came to work but refused to take up his duties. on 9 july 2008 the applicant was dismissed for two breaches of disciplinary rules. the first breach ascribed to him had had no relation to his trade union activities. ( the applicant complained to a court that he should not have been dismissed for having participated in the strike organised by his trade union. on 19 august 2008 the case was heard by the meschanskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s dismissal for a repeated failure to properly perform his professional duties. the acts prohibited strikes of railway workers responsible, inter alia, for the circulation of trains, shunting, and services to passengers. the court stressed that those limitations were aimed at securing safety on the railway and that railway workers were subjected to stricter disciplinary rules than workers in other sectors of industry. the applicant was a locomotive driver; therefore, his work was directly linked to the circulation of trains, shunting, and the provision of services to passengers. given the above and the applicant’s earlier transgression, his dismissal had been justified. the district court did not discuss the question of whether advance notice of the strike had been given or other issues related to the lawfulness of the strike of 28 april 2008. on 29 january 2009, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court confirmed the judgment of 19 august 2008.
the applicant, ms violeta pulfer, is an albanian national who was born in 1967 and lives in tirana. on an unspecified date in 2011 the applicant and her husband moved to vlora. of the obligations arising from the down-payment agreement. on 30 october 2012, with police assistance, the applicant entered the house and found that it had been emptied. on an unspecified date, in january 2012, the applicant had lodged a criminal complaint against s.n. on 20 june 2012 the prosecutor committed s.n. the case file was forwarded to the vlora district court in order for it to conduct the proceedings. following the alleged assault of 8 september 2012, on 9 september 2012 the prosecutor ordered that the applicant undergo a medical examination. the above injuries had made the applicant temporarily unfit for work for a period of nine days. it appears from the case file that the applicant’s health started to deteriorate as a result of the assault on 8 september 2012. on 4 october 2012 the prosecutor opened criminal investigation no. for the offence of malicious use of telephone calls under article 275 of the cc. on 8 october 2012 the prosecutor decided to join the two investigations, nos. was suspected of having committed the offences provided for in articles 89, 275 and 277 of the cc. ...
on the basis of information obtained during the investigation ..., it appears that from 24 to 27 september 2012, s.n. on 25 april 2013 the applicant was awarded full disability status and was recognised as permanently unfit for work. on 11 july 2014 the general prosecutor sent the file to the fier district prosecutor’s office to proceed with the applicant’s complaint concerning the impartiality of the vlora district prosecutor. on 2 and 3 november 2017, the government and the applicant, respectively, informed the court that the applicant had lodged a complaint with the vlora district court against the prosecutor’s decision of 15 february 2013 under article 329 of the ccp. on 18 may 2015 the vlora district court had dismissed the applicant’s complaint. it appears that the investigation is still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in labytnangi, yamalo-nenetskiy region. on 22 may 2008 the applicant arrived at the ik-8 correctional colony, yamalo-nenetskiy region. on 31 march 2008 the applicant’s wife instituted divorce proceedings. on 9 april 2008 the justice of the peace of circuit no. 2 of the krasnosulinskiy district of the rostov region (“justice of the peace”) sent a letter rogatory to the courts of tyumen region, asking them to interview the applicant and to establish whether he wished to attend the hearing in person. on 22 april 2008 the tyumen regional division of the judicial department received the letter. on 4 july 2008 a justice of the peace in labytnangi fixed an interview with the applicant for 18 july 2008 and sent two summonses to his home address, which his wife had listed in her statement of claim. both summonses were returned undelivered. on 10 september 2009 the tyumen courts informed the justice of the peace that it had been impossible to reach the applicant. on the same day the justice of the peace decided to hold a hearing in the applicant’s absence, noting that although the applicant had his registered residence at the address mentioned by the plaintiff, he had not appeared for an interview before the justice of the peace. on 18 september 2008 the justice of the peace granted the divorce. on the same day a copy of the decision was sent to the applicant’s home address. on 20 november 2013, the applicant learnt of the judgment of 18 september 2008. he asked for an extension of the time-limit for lodging an appeal against it. he argued that he had never received the judgment of 18 september 2008 and that he had been previously unaware of the divorce proceedings. on 26 december 2013 the justice of the peace heard evidence from the applicant’s former wife who claimed that the applicant should have been aware of the divorce proceedings in 2008 because his mother had received the final judgment of 18 september 2008. the justice of the peace held that an excerpt of the judgment had been served on the applicant in person on 31 october 2008 and refused the applicant’s application to extend the time limit for lodging an appeal. the hearing was held in the applicant’s absence. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision. on 15 may 2014 the krasnosulinskiy district court of rostov region upheld the decision of 26 december 2013, again in his absence.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in republic of dagestan. in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant’s father, the authorities instituted a preliminary inquiry during which p., an investigator, questioned the applicant (who provided a detailed account of the above-mentioned events), subjected the applicant to a gynaecological examination (which did not detect any traces of sexual assault on the applicant’s body), conducted an inspection of the locations where the alleged rapes had taken place and collected wet towel wipes found at the location of the “t.l.” area (the applicant having explained that one of the rapists had wiped himself with a towel wipe). the wipes were sent for forensic examination. on 18 july 2012 the applicant’s lawyer submitted a dvd with a video recording of one of the alleged occasions. on 20 july 2012 the investigator examined the video recording. having examined the material obtained in the course of the inquiry, p., the investigator, discerned no evidence to support the applicant’s allegations of rape and on 26 july 2012 issued a decision declining to open a criminal investigation against the alleged perpetrators. on 2 august 2012 the head of the inter-district investigative committee quashed the decision of 26 july 2012, noting that the investigator had not questioned all the alleged perpetrators and had failed to obtain the results of the forensic examination. he based his findings on the material collected in the course of the first inquiry. on 15 january 2013 the applicant was granted the status of victim of a crime and advised of her procedural rights. the submissions that they made during that questioning are summarised in annex i below. were arrested and remanded in custody on the charges of rape. on 13 january 2014 the first deputy head of the republican investigative committee determined that the criminal investigation had been incomplete and perfunctory and quashed the decision of 6 december 2013, ordering a further investigation. on 25 february 2014 d. discontinued the criminal investigation, noting that there was no evidence, except for the applicant’s statements, implicating seven of the alleged perpetrators. on 20 june 2014 the sovetskiy district court dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant against the decision of 25 february 2014. on 29 january 2015 the district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 16 may 2014. on the same date the investigative committee discontinued the criminal investigation. after the reopening of the case, the investigator questioned dzh.a., it should be also taken into consideration ... that a significant amount of time has passed since the crimes were committed.” no explanation was given for the failure to submit the complete case file, as had been requested.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in st petersburg before his arrest. at 4.30 p.m. on 4 july 2013 the applicant was arrested near his car on a street in st petersburg by masked police officers of the special rapid response unit of the main directorate of internal affairs (guvd) of st petersburg and the leningrad region (собр гу мвд рф по санкт‑петербургу и ленинградской области­), and operational police officers of unit no. 7 of the operative‑search division of criminal investigation department no. from the time he was taken to police station no. 59); struck with a book to the head, ears and back of the head and made to kneel on small objects spread out on the floor (by ch., it granted a request by d. for the applicant’s detention and remanded him in custody. after his hospitalisation the applicant was discharged for further supervision and outpatient treatment by a urologist. on 9 july 2013 the applicant was examined by a doctor at pre-trial detention facility iz 47/4. he complained of pain in the left side of his lumbar region. 3575 p, which was carried out in the absence of the applicant from 13 to 18 september 2013 on the basis of the investigator’s order of 2 september 2013, and which comprised an analysis of the applicant’s medical records, the applicant had the following injuries: (i) bruising on his forehead; (ii) bruising on his chest and abdomen; (iii) an abrasion on his abdomen; (iv) abrasions on his right elbow joint and both knee joints, recorded on 5 july 2013; and (v) bruising on his arms, recorded on 8 july 2013. the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries, as recorded on 5 and 8 july 2013, had been caused within the last fourteen to fifteen days. since the applicant had further resisted arrest, the officers had used sambo techniques, as a result of which the applicant had been “knocked down” (повален) from behind, face down on the ground and handcuffed. in reply to the investigator’s question, the expert stated that the bruising on the applicant’s forehead and abdomen and abrasions on his abdomen, elbow and knees could possibly have been caused as a result of a fall (при падении) onto hard asphalt. k. and p., the police officers of the criminal investigation department who participated in the applicant’s arrest, stated that they had not seen the precise moment of his arrest, that is to say when he had been apprehended and laid face down on the ground by a. and b.s. k. and p. had not noticed any visible injuries on him after his arrest. according to o., the applicant had behaved quietly and not made any complaints. the police officers had neither threatened nor physically assaulted him. in particular, the applicant indicated that he had been physically assaulted many times, receiving injuries to his head, abdomen and extremities. however, according to his medical records, he had not had any head injuries, and the alleged contusion of his left kidney had not been confirmed. on 25 june 2014 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 9 december 2013.
at the material time, the applicant was one of the co-chairs of the peoples’ democratic party (hdp), a left-wing pro-kurdish political party. bu saatten itibaren milyonlar sokaklara akmalı, sınır insan seline dönüşmelidir. of course, i am not talking about acts of violence. fakat bu partinin yöneticilerinin bu işin bedelini ödemeleri gerekir diyorum. those who try to downplay it by calling it [resistance of] ditches and holes should look back at history. on 26 december 2015 the applicant attended the extraordinary meeting of the democratic society congress (dtk). in a speech on 26 march 2016 the applicant drew a distinction between war, which he described as illegitimate, and resistance, which he said was a legitimate response to the fascist policies of the political authorities in accusing millions of people of being terrorists. on various dates, fourteen members of parliament from the hdp, including the applicant, and one from the chp were placed in pre-trial detention as the subject of criminal investigations. on the same day, the applicant, assisted by three lawyers, appeared before the public prosecutor. next, he observed that the applicant had given several speeches in which he had described certain acts by pkk members, such as digging trenches and putting up barricades in towns, as “resistance”, and had participated in activities of the democratic society congress, an organisation which, according to the magistrate, operated in accordance with the kck agreement. (i) in a speech he had given in batman on 27 october 2012 in the offices of the peace and democracy party (“the bdp”, a left-wing pro-kurdish political party), the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of the pkk terrorist organisation by urging people to close their shops and not to send their children to school as a protest aimed at securing the release of the pkk leader. kürt halkı evet bugün biz sadece söylemiyoruz, bizi eleştirenler de söylüyordu, pkk hareketi olmasaydı bugün kürt halkı diye bir şey türkiye kürdistan’ı için en azından olmayacaktı. şemdinli’de eruh’ta ilk direniş sergilendiğinde kimse ne olduğunun farkında değildi ama o direniş bugün büyük bir halk gerçeği yarattı. on 17 november 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. he complained firstly of a violation of his right to liberty and security and his right to engage in political activities. with regard to the complaint concerning the lawfulness of the applicant’s arrest and detention in police custody, it held that he should have brought an action under article 141 § 1 (a) of the ccp but had refrained from doing so. 2013/9895); and three years, ten months and five days in gülser yıldırım (no. turning to the risk of absconding, he observed firstly that the orders for the applicant’s initial and continued pre-trial detention had given two main reasons to substantiate that risk, namely the severity of the sentences prescribed by law for the offences in question and the fact that the applicant had refused to appear before the investigating authorities. noting in addition that the applicant was a member of parliament and co-chair of a political party that had obtained more than five million votes, the dissenting judge considered that his pre-trial detention without relevant and sufficient reasons also amounted to a breach of the right to be elected and to carry out political activities as safeguarded by article 67 of the constitution. on 20 april 2018 the national assembly decided to bring forward to 24 june 2018 the presidential and parliamentary elections scheduled for 2019.
the first applicant was born in 1941 and lives in istanbul. she invited the first applicant to provide her with the documents requested previously within fifteen days. on 10 october 2000 the tax inspectors went to the address in mecidiyeköy together with two police officers. she concluded that a search was required under those circumstances. searched the applicant company’s premises and seized a number of documents. on 23 january 2001 the tax inspectorate requested an extension of the audit period, on account of the substantial number of documents seized during the search and the fact that the applicant company had not submitted the missing documents until 23 december 2000. the applicants objected to that decision. compiled three records, listing in detail the information obtained from the seized documents and putting certain questions to the applicants in respect of those. drew up a tax-assessment report, noting several irregularities in the applicant company’s financial records and payment of taxes, in particular with regard to the amount it had obtained as a result of the payment made to it by the iron and steel company. reiterating the content of the records drawn up during the visits to that latter address, the report noted that after having obtained a search warrant from the magistrates’ court, the inspectors had had to seize the relevant documents and take them to the tax inspectorate, as the audit could not be carried out there due to the staff’s behaviour and as it was not the applicant company’s registered business address within the meaning of section 139 of the tax procedure act (law no. it ordered it to pay trl 123,205,000,000 in income tax and trl 587,688,150,000[2] as a penalty (cezalı gelir stopaj vergisi ve fon payı tarhiyatı) in respect of different periods of year 2001. it also challenged the findings of the tax-assessment report, arguing that the transactions between partners did not justify the imposition of the tax and the penalty. with regard to the procedure, the applicant company claimed that both the search and the audit had been conducted unlawfully. lastly, the audit had been carried out unlawfully after the expiry of the period indicated in the warrant issued by the domestic court. as for the tax and the penalty imposed, the court held that despite certain flaws in the tax inspector’s methods, the findings of the tax-assessment report were reliable. on 27 april 2004 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgments. final decisions were served on the applicant company on 10 january 2005. both seizure measures were found to be unlawful and were annulled by the istanbul tax court. subsequently, on 19 december 2001 the applicant company requested that criminal proceedings be instituted against s.k., the court did not mention the search and seizure.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in seville. negotiations were held throughout the whole day, yet they were unsuccessful. that the building might collapse if heavy machinery were used to release them. informed the police officers and fire fighters of his intention to voluntarily release himself and asked them to untie him. at around 8.30 p.m. the applicant also decided to end his protest. were immediately arrested and brought before a judge. they were also taken to a public health centre where they underwent a forensic examination. he reports discomfort in both wrists but no visible haematological signs are at present detectable. interview and patient history rule out any decrease of his cognitive or volitional abilities, [patient thus] fit to give statement at this very moment.” on 1 december 2007 the applicant participated in a press conference during which he commented on the eviction and the techniques the police and fire fighters had used during the confinement. the wrist inside the tube started to swell ... he was not able to open the padlock for a full day ...
[t]o me, instead of fixing the rope to my free wrist, they fixed it to my waist and they repeated what they had done to r.d.p.: as a result of the statements, on 21 december 2007 the delegation of the government of andalusia lodged a complaint with the public prosecutor, requesting the initiation of a criminal investigation before the seville investigating judge no. on 6 july 2011 seville criminal judge no. were in fact attached to the concrete floor. according to the criminal judge the fire fighters also intimidated the applicant and r.d.p. by telling them that the walls could collapse if the authorities opted to use machinery to release them. the judge additionally found that the descriptions given by the applicant, in combination with the pictures that had been published by the press, could lead to the identification of the police officers in question. they would then be linked to accusations of torture, which, according to the criminal judge, had not taken place. in reply to the argument that the word “torture” had been used colloquially, the judge considered the following:
“[t]he applicant’s repetition of the word torture reveals that it was not an occasional and exceptional use of such word in place, but it was exposed and expressed in full awareness and repeatedly in order to get the message across to listeners, i.e., that the applicant had been subject to torture by police officers and fire fighters.” the audiencia provincial upheld the remaining elements of the first-instance judgment.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in berlin. the letter also stated that he was given the opportunity to submit written or oral comments and that he was free, at any time, even before being questioned, to consult defence counsel to be chosen by him. the applicant, who had applied for access to, and been given copies of the file prior to the issuance of the penal order, lodged a timely objection against that order and asked to be given access to the file again, which was granted. on 12 may 2011 s.’s lawyer, in the context of the criminal proceedings, lodged civil claims for compensation under articles 403 et seq. the applicant was given the opportunity to submit written comments on this and made use of that opportunity. on 24 may 2011 the berlin tiergarten district court granted legal aid to s. and appointed his lawyer to represent him in the pursuit of the civil claims in the context of the criminal proceedings. the following day the main hearing took place, lasting for some 75 minutes. the district court orally heard s. as well as b. and m., the latter two having been present at the event in question, as witnesses and also evaluated a medical certificate concerning the injuries sustained by s. it convicted the applicant of libel and two counts of assault and sentenced him to a fine of 90 day-fines of eur 15 each. the applicant had made written submissions setting out his position prior to the hearing and was orally heard by the district court. on 26 may 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on facts and law. on 4 july 2011 the judge presiding over the competent appeals chamber of the berlin regional court informed the public prosecutor’s office of his intention to appoint defence counsel for the applicant. that same day, mr förster, the applicant’s lawyer in the convention proceedings, gave notice that he now represented the applicant. he claimed that representation by defence counsel had been necessary, given that the private accessory prosecutor s. had been represented by counsel who had been present at the main hearing. on 14 march 2012 the berlin court of appeal dismissed the appeal on points of law, save for allowing the applicant to pay the fine in instalments. it found that the conditions for mandatory appointment of defence counsel under article 140 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 20 below) were not met. the legislature had deliberately chosen to limit the presumption that an accused cannot defend himself to cases where the competent court had appointed counsel for the victim for the private accessory prosecution in accordance with articles 397a and 406g §§ 3 and 4 of the code (see paragraph 20 below). there were legitimate reasons for that distinction, given that counsel was appointed for the private accessory prosecutor for victims of certain grave offences or where the victim was not able to safeguard his interests sufficiently, or could not be expected to do so, including in scenarios which gave rise to particular factual or legal difficulties. in such a scenario, the individual circumstances of the case had to be assessed in order to determine whether defence counsel had to be appointed. turning to the circumstances of the case, the court of appeal concluded that the applicant was capable of effectively defending himself without counsel and had indeed done so. counsel for s. had only acted in respect of the civil claims.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in yerevan. ’s apartment, where they lived together following which the prosecution started an investigation into their death. it appears that the applicant had known v.g., relying on forensic medical opinions nos. ’s will to the notary and gave his acceptance to inherit her apartment. had bequeathed the apartment to her by the will certified by a public notary back in 1991, she had been informed that the applicant had submitted another will in respect of the same apartment according to which the apartment was to pass down to him. it appears that on 11 july 2007 additional post-mortem forensic medical examinations following the exhumation of the bodies of m.g. 22 and 23 had correctly determined the causes of their death and, if not, whether it was possible that they had died as a result of having been poisoned. on 7 august 2007 the investigator decided to start an investigation on account of forgery. whom he knew, had visited him in his home to hand over some documents to him, namely a will and other documents from the notary informing him that she had bequeathed her apartment to him. on 21 december 2007 a forensic technical and toxicological examination was completed. gave expert statements on 6 december 2007, 25 january and 5 february 2008 respectively. were ordered, and they were completed on 27 june 2008. at the hearing of 26 august 2008, the opinions of all expert witnesses were read out aloud. it was not necessary to call the expert witnesses. on 21 october 2008 the yerevan criminal court found the applicant guilty of two counts of aggravated murder committed for gain and sentenced him to life imprisonment. in doing so, it mostly relied on the trial statements of the victims’ relatives and neighbours, who confirmed that the applicant had visited the sisters in their apartment several times; on the expert opinions; and on material evidence seized from the applicant’s apartment, namely the originals of the ownership certificate in respect of v.g. the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that he had been deprived of the opportunity to examine the experts with regard to their contradictory opinions. on 2 july 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar complaints as before. on 28 july 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
in 2005 to 2006 the applicant was prosecuted for various crimes. from 27 may 2005 to 3 october 2006 the applicant was detained at a pre-trial detention centre (sizo) in kropyvnytskyi (then named kirovograd). from 4 october 2006 to 20 march 2008 the applicant was detained at correctional colony no. 6 in kropyvnytskyi (hereinafter “the first colony”). according to the applicant, he was held in a dormitory measuring 6 by 8 sq. m and containing twelve double bunk beds. they submitted photographs supposedly corroborating their submissions in that regard. in particular, he alleged that he had been beaten on arrival at the colony on 4 october 2006 and that the guards had tried to place him into a psychiatric clinic in march 2007. the applicant alleged that the food in the correctional colonies had been inadequate and of a poor quality. they submitted that the food supply had been in accordance with the relevant regulations and regularly checked. in support of their submissions they submitted a number of logs and reports from the prison authorities showing that portions compliant with the regulations in force had been distributed to the prisoners, and that the sanitary conditions had been checked and found to be appropriate. they also submitted several statements from inmates who alleged that they had served time with the applicant and stated that the conditions of their detention, particularly in terms of the provision of food, clothes and sanitary conditions, had been appropriate. it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that the applicant complained many times to various domestic authorities, notably the prosecutor’s office, alleging, in general, ill-treatment and persecution by the prison authorities. in may and august 2010 he withdrew two of his complaints, stating that they had been lodged in a state of heightened emotions. registers of incoming and outgoing mail from the correctional colonies submitted by the government show that, in the period from 17 june 2008 to 1 december 2011 – the only period of the applicant’s detention for which specific information in this regard is available – the applicant sent and received more than sixty letters to and from various public entities, most notably various domestic courts, disciplinary commissions of judges, members of parliament and the presidential administration. under domestic law (see paragraph 21 below) this correspondence was subject to monitoring by the prison authorities. the prison registers show that the applicant also corresponded extensively with other entities, namely prosecutors, the parliamentary commissioner for human rights and the court. this correspondence was, under domestic law, exempted from monitoring. after sending the court an authority form empowering mr markov to represent him, the applicant sent the court two letters, in april 2014 and april 2015, informing it that he wished to revoke the lawyer’s authority. he said that the lawyer, by seeking to derive financial benefit from the case, had demonstrated conduct unworthy of his status.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in novosibirsk. the applicant was charged with and subsequently found guilty of murdering his father and uncle. on 26 march 2007 the court gave notification of the application to the russian government. on 29 november 2007 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing in which the applicant took part by means of a video link and was represented by state-appointed counsel, a. the court upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction. on 5 april 2012 the supreme court upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction on appeal. she did not submit fresh grounds for appeal and made submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant and counsel a. the applicant, who was detained in novosibirsk, took part in the hearing by means of a video link. he had agreed to be represented by counsel k. and confirmed that he had been provided with sufficient time to communicate with her to discuss his case. period of detention
cell size (square metres)
number of sleeping places
number of inmates
322
from 7 to 8 february 20. there was a toilet cabin which ensured complete privacy for the person using it. there were no grilles or shutters on the windows preventing access to daylight. during the daytime the cells were lit with a 95-watt electric bulb. the central heating system was always in a good working order. the temperature in the cells was maintained at +22 to +25oc in the summer and +19 to +21oc in the winter. the bed sheets were changed each time the inmates took a shower. 48 he was not always provided with an individual bed. the dining table was too small to accommodate all inmates. the table was located 1 metre away from the toilet. on 15 march 2012 the applicant brought a civil action against the remand prison, alleging that he had been detained in inhuman and degrading conditions there. on 14 march 2013 the dzerzhinskiy district court of novosibirsk dismissed the applicant’s claims. in particular, the court held as follows:
“regard being had to the evidence submitted, [it follows] that during the period under consideration the personal space afforded to each inmate in the cell where the applicant was detained ... was 2.6 sq.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived in martin. in 2006 she was recognised as “severely disabled” with 60% “functional impairment” pursuant to the relevant national laws. her monthly disabled person’s allowance payments in 2010, 2011 and 2012 were 325.40 euros (eur), eur 336.20 and eur 346.30, respectively. prior to the above, in 2004, the applicant had lodged a claim with the martin district land office (obvodný pozemkový úrad) for restitution of a suite of real property consisting of several plots which came under special legislation provisions on restitution. this type of action required mandatory legal representation. accordingly, the action was submitted through a lawyer. the applicant also sought an order for costs. eur 130 was claimed in respect of one such act along with an associated lump sum for overheads; the whole claim came to some eur 260. on 2 january, 29 february and 23 march 2012 the applicant made further submissions. the latter submission was made in response to a request by the court to specify the plots in respect of which the applicant’s restitution claim was still outstanding. on 10 april 2012 the regional court granted the action and made an order for costs. it found that the applicant had correctly calculated the value of the act of legal assistance and that the undertaking by her lawyer of those acts had been justified. there is no reference in the regional court’s decision to the remaining two acts of legal assistance in the summary of the applicant’s claim, in the courts’ reasoning, or in the operative part of its decision. as she had been fully successful in the case, she normally should have been compensated in respect of the costs of all justified acts of legal assistance received. a reduction of the award could only have been based on exceptional circumstances within the meaning of article 150 of the code of civil procedure. however, in determining the issue of legal costs, the regional court had made no use of that provision and, in any event, no such circumstances pertained, in particular because the case concerned unjustified delays in proceedings before a public authority lasting more than seven years; her efforts to ensure an out-of-court solution had been futile and had left her with no alternative to asserting her rights in the regional court; legal representation before that court was mandatory, the applicant was disabled, and she was living on the allowance specified above. on 14 june 2012 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. it was true that the decision contested in the applicants’ case was “challengeable under the criteria of lawfulness”. accordingly, her complaint was rejected as manifestly ill-founded. the decision was served on 3 august 2012 and no appeal lay against it.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in çorum. he arrived at the police station where the applicant was being held. had a private meeting to discuss the case that lasted for eight minutes. at the anti-terrorist branch of the istanbul security headquarters. he did not admit to any affiliation to the organisation. one of the alleged members of the tdp at the time, had asked him to provide him with a fake identity card in order to escape abroad and he had provided him with the identity information of his brother. the lawyer, alleging that the police officers were recording phrases that had not been said by the applicant, also requested that the police officers remove that part of the applicant’s statement. as a result, the lawyer did not sign the interview record. subsequently, the applicant had allowed them to visit the friend together. on 21 march 2004 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and investigating judge respectively. on 22 march 2004 the applicant’s detention was ordered in absentia. on 20 april 2004 the applicant was remanded in custody. at a hearing held on 24 november 2004 the applicant gave evidence in the presence of his lawyer and denied the charges against him, arguing that he had not aided any member of an armed organisation. it accordingly decided to request a copy of that investigation file. a document provided by the ptt (the postal, telegraph and telephone service) to the erzurum assize court shows that on 26 january 2007 the forthcoming hearing date was served on the secretary of the applicant’s lawyer. at the end of the hearing the court notified him that the next hearing would take place on 27 december 2007. on 2 march 2009 the court of cassation upheld the conviction. criminal proceedings against the police officers 26. on 22 october 2004 the fatih public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the relevant police officers, accusing them of ill‑treatment and misconduct in office. 765) and article 223 of the new code of criminal procedure (law no.
the applicants, who are brothers, were born in 1964 and 1962 respectively and live in mardin. on 26 january 2000 he was questioned by the police. it thus suspended the criminal proceedings against the first applicant. the decision became final on 31 october 2007. it further acquitted him of the remaining charges for lack of sufficient evidence. among those questioned within the context of that investigation were the applicants, about six to nine of their colleagues, as well as the principal and vice-principal of the primary school. in respect of the second applicant, the teachers said that they knew him to be religious but that they had not witnessed him engaging in any ideological propaganda at school. the principal and vice-principal stated that they had not witnessed or been made aware of anything to suggest that the applicants had connections with the illegal organisation. the applicants denied the allegations and stated that they wanted to return to their duties as soon as possible. they then decided that the nature of the criminal proceedings against the applicants on charges of membership of a terrorist organisation fell within the ambit of section 125 (e) (a) of the law on civil servants (law no. relying on his right to be presumed innocent, on 18 february 2002 the first applicant challenged that decision before the regional administrative court. it therefore held that he could not be dismissed from public service for membership of a terrorist organisation without a final conviction. the case was remitted to the diyarbakır administrative court. despite the fact that the criminal proceedings against the applicant [on charges of membership of a terrorist organisation] have been suspended, it is an established principle of case-law that exoneration from criminal liability does not preclude the finding of a disciplinary offence. on 21 june 2005 the first applicant appealed against the judgment of the diyarbakır administrative court to the supreme administrative court, requesting a stay of the decision ordering for his dismissal from service. c.  proceedings before the administrative courts against the dismissal of the second applicant 29. on 4 march 2002 the diyarbakır regional administrative court ordered a stay of execution of the dismissal decision. bearing in mind that the relevant criminal proceedings were still pending before the diyarbakır state security court, the regional administrative court concluded that the second applicant could not, for the time being, be lawfully dismissed from the civil service on account of membership of a terrorist organisation. referring to the second applicant’s statements given to the police, his cv obtained from the hizbullah safe house in istanbul and the bill of indictment filed against him by the mardin public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court then found it established that the second applicant was a member of a terrorist organisation who in addition had recruited members to the organisation and pursued the ideology of the terrorist organisation in the classroom. it continued that even if his colleagues had not witnessed such action on the part of the second applicant at the school, his dismissal had still been justified under a different subsection of section 125 (e), namely subsection (g), which authorised the dismissal of civil servants who were found to engage in “disgraceful and shameful conduct incompatible with the position of a civil servant”.
on various dates in the 1990s the employer of the adult male applicants (applicants 1, 3, 5 and 10), the security service of the ministry of finance, provided them with accommodation in its dormitory building in moscow. they were registered as living in the building on a temporary basis. in 2001 the right of operational management in respect of the dormitory building was transferred to the federal treasury (“the treasury”). the third and fifth applicants resigned from the security service in 2004 and 2009 respectively, but continued to live in the dormitory building. according to the government, the first applicant was dismissed from the security service in 2014. the adult male applicants are registered as living in the dormitory building on a permanent basis. each family occupies a room in the building. having regard to the above, the district court concluded that articles 53 and 54 of the old housing code and articles 69 and 70 of the new housing code, which allowed tenants under a social tenancy agreement to move members of their families into a property, were not applicable to the adult female applicants, and therefore they had to be evicted from the occupied housing without any alternative accommodation being provided. in january 2008 bailiffs instituted enforcement proceedings. in march 2008 those proceedings were terminated, as the creditor recalled the writ of execution. on 5 february 2009 new enforcement proceedings were instituted. in 2009 the treasury brought new eviction proceedings against the adult female applicants. the treasury claimed that those applicants had started living on the premises without its permission. the applicants concerned lodged a counterclaim, seeking to have their right to occupy the dormitory building premises recognised. they submitted that they had been residing in the building lawfully as spouses of the persons to whom the housing had been provided, and in any event, under domestic law (article 20 of the civil code, and articles 31 and 54 of the family code (see “relevant domestic law” below), they had a right to live together with their husbands and children. on 24 november 2010 the city court upheld the eviction order. on an unspecified date the applicants were put on the municipal housing list. on 17 august 2011 the district court granted the claims of the adult male applicants and the minor applicants in part. in particular, the court established that the adult male applicants had been moved into the dormitory building by their employer, the security service of the ministry of finance, between 1990 and 1995. on 16 february 2012 the city court upheld that judgment.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in istanbul. on 11 december 1995 the applicant, a traffic control officer, was hit by a car while on duty. he suffered bodily injuries as a result of the accident. an official disability report indicated that he had a reduced working capacity of 60%. on the basis of this report the applicant, while reserving the right to increase his claims in due course, made an initial request for compensation to the ministry of interior, claiming 20,000 turkish liras (try) in pecuniary damages and try 5,000 in non-pecuniary damages. following tacit dismissal of the claim by the ministry, the applicant brought a case for compensation before the istanbul administrative court for the amounts he had specified in his request to the ministry. during the course of the proceedings, the court decided of its own motion to order an expert report to determine the exact amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicant. the report, which was submitted to the court on 26 september 2005, indicated the applicant’s pecuniary damages as 157,077 try. the applicant did not submit a request to the court to increase his initial claims in the light of that report. the istanbul administrative court in its decision delivered on 15 february 2006 only awarded him the amounts initially requested by him.
the second applicant was born in 1957 and lives in prilep. on 8 november 2008 seven persons, including the second applicant, founded the applicant association. the founding members adopted several documents concerning the applicant association, including its charter, the relevant parts of which read as follows:
article 1
“the church of real orthodox christians of macedonia [hereinafter “the church”] is a voluntary association of individuals, who exercise, through their religious beliefs and doctrinal sources, the freedom of religion ... through preaching; prayer; religious rituals; and other forms of expression.” article 3
“the seat of the [applicant association] is [the street name].” ...”
article 9
“as part of its activity, the church will publish literature with orthodox content and establish funds, in particular, for:
-  publication of bulletins and periodicals ...;
-  publication of chronicles concerning the work of the members;
-  publication of books;
-  creation of funds for financial aid.” article 27
“the church will be financed by:
-  economic activities;
-  sponsorship;
-  donations;
-  voluntary contributions and funds, and so forth.” on 26 november 2008 the ministry of justice granted permission to the applicant association to use the word “macedonia” in the name. on 3 december 2008 the second applicant, acting as an authorised representative of the applicant association, submitted an application for its registration as a religious association. as stated in the application, it appended, inter alia, evidence that its founding members were macedonian nationals. by a letter of 19 december 2008, the skopje court of first instance (“the registration court”) acknowledged receipt of all appended documents and requested that the applicants complete the application by specifying the organisational form under which the applicant association sought registration. on 5 january 2009 the applicants replied that the applicant association sought registration as a church. on 6 march 2009 the registration court rejected the application as incomplete. whereas it confirmed that nationality documentation was in the file, the court held that it was unable to establish whether the application for registration had been submitted in good time. that decision was quashed on appeal by the skopje court of appeal, which found no reasons why the registration court had not sought that the applicants complete the application in that respect by its request of 19 december 2008. in this connection, the court held that: (a) the text of article 1 of the charter was not identical to the text of section 2 of the 2007 act; (b) articles 9 and 10 of the charter specified that the applicant association would publish literature with religious content and would create funds, which, according to the court, was contrary to the aims specified in section 2 of the 2007 act. on 16 december 2010 the skopje court of appeal upheld the lower court’s decision, finding that the reasoning contained therein was clear and consistent. it held that article 11 of the charter provided that the applicant association would be financed from funds obtained from economic activities, which implied that it would be for-profit, contrary to section 33(2) of the 2007 act. furthermore, the permission granted by the ministry of justice of 26 november 2008 (see paragraph 6 above) concerned “the church of real orthodox christians” and not “the church of real orthodox christians of macedonia”. lastly, it established that there was no evidence in the case file regarding the nationality of the founding members and the second applicant. the court did not address the remaining complaints.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is detained in verona, italy, in connection with criminal charges unrelated to the present case. she suffered multiple cuts, including a penetrating chest wound, which led to pneumothorax. she was hospitalised in an intensive-care unit. according to the subsequent findings of the domestic court which convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery (see paragraph 18 below), the applicant had attacked g., whom he had known previously, and seized a certain amount of cash belonging to her employer, the company that ran the shop. according the applicant’s account, which he maintained throughout the proceedings before the domestic courts and before this court, g. owed him money and he had gone to the shop to collect the debt. however, g. had attacked him with scissors and, trying to defend himself, he had hit her back, seized the scissors from her and stabbed her with them. allegedly, his request for a lawyer was ignored. on 18 october 2005 the trial court convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment. the trial court considered those allegations to be an obfuscation tactic on the part of the applicant and pointed out that his girlfriend, with whom he had lived for two years, did not know of any debt. on 14 november 2005 the applicant appealed to the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). he raised, notably, various matters concerning the assessment of the evidence. he asked the court of appeal to provide him with a lawyer. on 2 february 2006 the vice-president of the court of appeal asked the regional bar association to assign a lawyer for the applicant. the applicant was free to hire such a lawyer himself. on 4 december 2006 the applicant lodged a handwritten appeal on points of law with the supreme court. according to him, he was held in a cell that had twenty-four sleeping places, with more than fifty other inmates. from 5 october to 14 december 2006 he was returned to the sizo to enable him to study the case file in preparation for his appeal on points of law. glasses were prescribed and issued to him. on one occasion in october 2011 he was diagnosed with high blood pressure and was given the relevant medication. on 28 january 2008 the applicant’s representative engaged a lawyer practising in kharkiv to visit him in prison and advise him on legal matters.
former nuns in the macedonian orthodox church (“moc”), founded the applicant association. consequently) they do not want to have any canonical communication with episcopes and priests of the macedonian orthodox church. this is so because all other churches consider its teaching heretical and wrong. we ... do not want to waste our life in religious doubt ... to be led by immature and non-religious people ... we would be offended on religious grounds if we are associated with another religious community ...” 5. on the same date, the founding members created the following official documents: (a) a founding decision; (b) decisions authorising o.m. to represent the applicant association and submit an application for its registration; and (c) the charter (статут) of the applicant association. the relevant parts of the founding decision read as follows:
article 1
“this decision serves (the purpose of) the registration of stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom in the register of churches, religious communities (верски заедници) and groups (религиозни групи) in the republic of macedonia, as a voluntary, non-profit association of christians who do not belong to any religious community and, in particular, have nothing in common with the macedonian orthodox church. ” article 3
“because it is a christian religious community ...” 7. article 3
“the name of the religious community is: stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom, with its registered office in v. nizopole-bitola.” submitted an application for registration of the applicant association “as one of the religious communities” to the skopje court of first instance (“the registration court”). the above‑mentioned documents were appended to the application. on 10 december 2008 the registration court requested that the applicant association submit evidence concerning the nationality of its founding members, a requirement with which the applicant association complied. it found that the application for registration did not meet the requirements laid down in sections 1 and 2 of the 2007 act on the legal status of a church, religious community and association (“the 2007 act”, see paragraphs 14 and 15 below) in that (a) it referred to a form of voluntary association of physical persons which was not covered by the act and (b) the registration of the applicant association “would violate the freedom of religion ‑ provided for in the convention and the constitution ‒ of other lawfully registered voluntary associations of physical persons”. the court did not elaborate further on the second ground on which it based its decision. the applicant association complained about that decision, arguing that it had sought to be registered as a religious community under the name specified in the founding documents, which was evident from the application for registration. it also submitted that non-registration was a very drastic measure (in this connection it argued that the court should have indicated any shortcomings that were to be rectified). the court had failed to explain whose religious beliefs would be affected by its registration. assuming that it referred to the followers of the moc, the court had not explained how its registration would violate their rights. on 29 april 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed the applicant association’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. by a decision of 9 september 2009 the constitutional court rejected the constitutional appeal, finding that o.m.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chevelcha. on 12 november 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted in respect of the theft of 2 november 2004. she was also made to spread her legs as widely as possible while standing and threatened with a beating if she fell down. thereafter, the applicant was questioned as a suspect in the absence of a lawyer. according to the record, the applicant confessed to a number of cattle thefts in 2003 and 2004, committed as a part of a group, and provided some details in this respect. no questions were put or remarks made by the investigator. according to the applicant, no such meeting was ever ensured and v. was, in fact, excluded from the hearing. on the same date v. complained to the prosecutor about this fact. on 23 november 2004 v. again complained to the orzhytsya prosecutor’s office that he was still not able to see the applicant and that no response had been given by the prosecutor to his four earlier complaints about violations of the applicant’s defence rights and his rights as her lawyer. on 17 december 2004 v. was denied a meeting with the applicant as he had not received any authorisation to do so from the newly appointed investigator to the case. on 22 december 2004, on being notified of her procedural rights in the case concerning the theft committed during the early morning of 2 november 2004, the applicant expressed a wish to be represented by v. on the same date, the investigator admitted v. to these proceedings. on 15 september 2005 the district court found the applicant guilty on a number of counts of theft and sentenced her to five years’ imprisonment. the district court dismissed the defendants’ allegations of ill‑treatment by the police as ill-founded. the applicant furthermore contested the credibility of the statements given by the police officers in the light of the fact that they were direct perpetrators. in doing so the court referred to (i) the applicant’s voluntary surrender to the police and to the further self-incriminatory statements that she had made during her questioning, which had been corroborated by those made by her alleged accomplices, and (ii) the fact that remains of animals had been found at the place pointed out by the applicant during the reconstruction of the crime. no copy of that decision has been made available to the court. as regards the defence rights, it was also noted that under the decision of the orzhytsya district court of 17 november 2004 lawyer v. had been granted permission to have a meeting with the applicant (see paragraph 19 above). on 26 november 2004, after having a meeting with the applicant and being given the results of the aforesaid medical examination, lawyer v. again complained to the prosecutor’s office of the applicant’s ill-treatment by the police and requested, inter alia, that she be given another forensic medical examination in his presence. on 29 november 2004 the applicant was transferred to the poltava temporary detention centre (“the poltava sizo”). it noted, inter alia, that the case file contained no explanations by the officers from the orzhytsya and the lubny itts and no information regarding whether the applicant had been provided with medical assistance when in the poltava sizo and whether she had undergone a medical examination with a view to establishing whether she had bodily injuries.
the applicant was born in 1978 and is currently detained in the centre for persons in preventive detention on the premises of straubing prison (hereinafter “the straubing preventive detention centre”). it found that in june 1997 the applicant, then aged nineteen, had strangled a woman who had been jogging on a forest path by use of considerable force with a cable, a tree branch and his hands, had partly undressed the dead or dying victim and had then masturbated. the court, having consulted two medical experts, found that the applicant had acted with full criminal responsibility when killing the woman for sexual gratification and in order to cover up his intended rape. on 22 june 2009 the regensburg regional court, with judge p. sitting on the bench, ordered the applicant’s subsequent preventive detention under section 7(2)(1) of the juvenile courts act, read in conjunction with section 105(1) of the juvenile courts act (see paragraphs 56 and 59 below). the federal constitutional court found that the impugned judgments and decisions had violated the applicant’s right to liberty and the constitutional protection of legitimate expectations guaranteed in a state governed by the rule of law (see in more detail paragraphs 68-75 below). he claimed, in particular, that his provisional preventive detention was unlawful. the decision was served on counsel for the applicant on 30 may 2012. by a decision of 28 november 2011 the regensburg regional court upheld the applicant’s provisional preventive detention as ordered on 6 may 2011. on 2 january 2012 the nuremberg court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal against that decision. in a comment of 13 december 2011 on the applicant’s motion for bias, judge p. explained that he remembered having had a discussion about the applicant’s possible transfer to a psychiatric hospital at a later stage, after the delivery of the judgment. even assuming that the applicant could reasonably consider the sense of the words “thank you” in the above context as meaning that the applicant could commit a violent offence, it had to be noted that the regional court, including judge p., had just established that the applicant still suffered from fantasies of sexual violence and that there was at that time a high risk that he would again commit serious offences against the life and sexual self‑determination of others. on 3 august 2012 the regensburg regional court, having held hearings over twenty-four days, again ordered the applicant’s subsequent preventive detention. the regional court based its view on the reports of two experienced external medical experts whom it had consulted, k. and f., who were professors and doctors for psychiatry and psychotherapy at two different university hospitals. having regard to the findings of these experts, as well as to those of several medical experts who had previously examined the applicant since his arrest following his offence, the regional court was satisfied that the applicant has had violent sexual fantasies involving the strangulation of women since the age of seventeen. on 5 march 2013 the federal court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as ill-founded. on 11 april 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. the applicant is currently still in preventive detention. moreover, he had turned down proposals for a further therapeutic programme in straubing prison. in particular, he was no longer able to undergo any kind of therapy. since 20 june 2013 the applicant has been detained in the newly built straubing preventive detention centre.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, were living in the chechen republic. on an unspecified date after the abduction, the second applicant learned from colonel b., an officer at the grozny remand prison, that mr yandayev, mr khamayev and mr z.i. it is unclear whether the applicants submitted this information to the investigators. on 10 july 2003 the applicants were granted victim status in the criminal case. it appears that the investigation is still pending. 22600057 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). immediately after the abduction the applicants informed the authorities thereof and asked that a criminal case be opened. on 19 june 2003 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 19 february 2007 the applicant asked the head of the chechen parliament to assist in the search for her husband and to expedite the investigation. 30136 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). on 6 february 2003 her complaint was forwarded to the chechnya prosecutor’s office, and then to the shali district prosecutor. on 10 august 2006 the investigators questioned the first applicant, who confirmed the account of the events described above, and who also stated that an acquaintance of hers had seen footage of mr askhab konchiyev’s arrest broadcast on a federal television channel in november 2005. on 26 august 2006 the investigators suspended the proceedings. in september 2011 she was informed that the proceedings had been suspended. he also stated that immediately after mr yusup mezhiyev’s detention he had asked a police officer at the checkpoint about the people who had carried out the arrest. on 30 january 2003 the urus-martan district prosecutor opened criminal case no. it appears that the applicants were not informed thereof. the first and fourth applicants are the adoptive parents of mr isa zilbukharov, who was born in 1975. the servicemen also stopped them for an identity check. their letters were forwarded to the chechnya ministry of the interior.
she was in a stable relationship with r. she had two children with him: the second applicant, m.i., in 2010, the relationship broke down and r. moved out of the family home. she feared that they were showing signs of emotional abuse caused by their father. the reports concluded that no signs of abuse had been identified. deciding in the interim proceedings (see paragraph 6 above), in a final decision of 5 may 2014 the bucharest county court ordered that the children should reside with their mother and that r. should pay monthly child support of 1,000 euros (eur) for each child until the end of the custody proceedings. in a letter of 26 june 2014 the bailiff asked r. to comply with the court order and to return the children to their mother within ten days. the bailiff scheduled a second meeting for 14 august 2014. on 2 october 2014 the district court allowed the request made by the bucharest child protection authority. on 28 january 2015 the first applicant contacted the bucharest child protection authority again and explained that the behaviour exhibited by the children during their recent encounter made her fear that they were suffering from parent alienation syndrome because of their father’s influence over them. the plan required cooperation between the social assistant responsible for their case, a psychologist, the school administration and the two parents. on 30 june 2015 r. complained to the bucharest child protection authority that the psychologist had put pressure on the children and induced a state of stress which had required the children’s hospitalisation after one of their meetings. he demanded to know on what grounds the children continued to be subjected to psychological counselling. (2)  because they are involved in the parental conflict, the children exhibit emotional and behavioural indicators frequently associated ... with psychological abuse. ... parents must be aware that parental alienation has negative consequences for the children’s development; without specialised intervention and the conscious participation of both parents, children can develop emotional or behavioural problems. an appeal lodged by him was also dismissed in a final decision of the bucharest county court on 18 september 2017. r. appealed, but on 18 january 2016 he informed the bucharest county court that he did not wish to maintain his appeal. r. informed the constanţa child protection authority that he was willing to pursue counselling for his children in năvodari and reiterated that he had not prohibited the first applicant from seeing the children. on 16 august 2016 the first applicant asked the prosecutor to extend the investigation to also cover allegations of ill-treatment of minors, arguing that r. was subjecting the children to psychological abuse. on 17 august 2016 r. had applied for physical custody of the children. a sudden change in their life would cause them more distress.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in znamensk. the applicant is a former military officer. he performed his military service and lived with his family in znamensk, a closed administrative unit (закрытое административно-территориальное образование) of the astrakhan region. in 1998 he was dismissed from military service and registered as a person in need of housing in the city of his choosing, moscow. in 2004 a domestic court declared the applicant’s son, his wife and their son (the applicant’s grand-son) the applicant’s family members. the applicant requested the housing authority to modify its earlier decision to include the above persons into the list of family members entitled to the housing certificate. in 2006 the city inter-departmental commission responsible for the state housing certificates program of the department of the housing policy and housing fund of moscow (the moscow housing commission) rejected his request and annulled its decision of 2002, referring to a change of legislation concerning the financing of the resettlement from closed administrative units. the applicant challenged the refusal in court. on 9 april 2007 the znamensk town court of the astrakhan region granted his claim, having found the reference to the legislative changes inapplicable to the applicant’s case. the court ordered the moscow housing commission to include the applicant’s family of five in an “order list” (список-заявка) for receipt of a state housing certificate. the judgment became final on 20 april 2007. it appears that the debtor authority’s representatives were not present at the hearing and asked to examine the case in their absence, on the basis of their written submissions. according to the letter of 4 july 2017 by the znamensk town court, on 6 june 2007 the court sent a copy of the judgment to the respondent authority by fax and mail. he submitted a copy of the request of 10 february 2011 and the postal receipt dated 26 march 2011 and containing the requesting authority’s address in the “destination” part, in support of his submissions. the applicant’s address specified in the letter read as follows: 71 the 9th may avenue, apartment 118. there had been no grounds to provide them with housing. the authority had not received a copy of the judgment of 9 april 2007 for execution. the authority further stated that, pursuant to a decree of the moscow government of 14 february 2012 no. the agreement stipulated that five applicant’s family members, namely, his son, his daughter, his son’s wife and their two children moved into the flat together with the applicant. in 2016 the applicant’s son divorced from his wife.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in malyn, zhytomyr region. on 17 november 1993 m. gave birth to a baby girl, k. given that the applicant had had relations with m. at the relevant time, on 2 december 1993 he accepted paternity of k. by submitting the relevant declaration to the authorities. on 23 march 2000 the applicant married m. they divorced in 2006. in july 2006 the applicant instituted proceedings in the malyn district court against m., challenging the paternity of k. the applicant claimed that, even though he had been married to another woman at the relevant time, he had had relations with m. and he had been sure that he was the father of the child and so accepted the paternity. however, in 2005 he had reason to doubt his paternity. on 24 march 2008 the district court found for the applicant, relying on a genetic expert’s opinion which excluded the possibility of the applicant being k.’s biological father. the court noted that the applicant had a right to challenge his paternity given that there was no evidence in the file to suggest that he had known that he was not the father of the child when accepting paternity of k. 9. m. appealed, stating that from january 1993 she and the applicant had lived together without being married and that she had never had any doubts about the applicant’s paternity of k. she argued, inter alia, that the genetic expert’s opinion was not reliable. on 29 may 2008 the zhytomyr regional court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s decision and held that, under article 56 of the family and marriage code, the applicant had not had a right to challenge his paternity because at the time that he accepted paternity of k., he was aware that he was not k.’s father. in support of that finding the court of appeal noted that before k.’s birth, the applicant and m. had not been married, they had not lived together (noting, in particular, that between february and april 1993 the applicant lived in another town), and the applicant had been married to another woman at the relevant time. the applicant appealed on a point of law, contending that there were no grounds for the court of appeal to find that at the material time he was aware that he was not the biological father of the child. no such evidence was available in the file and the regional court of appeal had exceeded its powers in drawing such a conclusion. on 9 september 2008 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the appeal by the applicant as unfounded.
the first applicant was born in 1968 and is detained in lukiškės remand prison; the second applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in vilnius correctional facility. in march 2014 the commission decided not to examine the first applicant’s petition as it was not clear enough. in march 2014 the first applicant lodged a new petition with the commission. addressing the first applicant’s proposal that article 96 § 1 of the code for the execution of sentences be amended so that it would permit inmates to receive electronic items from their acquaintances or friends, as well as from their spouses, partners or close relatives, the commission held that the existing regulation was aimed at preventing inmates from receiving items acquired by criminal means – for example, by their accomplices in crime. it also appears from the information submitted by the government that the applicant has a sister, a brother, an aunt, an uncle and a cousin (that is to say close relatives). he alleged that he had been confined to the prison hospital from 22 march until 4 april 2010, from 25 february until 4 march 2011, from 21 until 27 september 2011, and from 17 until 24 january 2014. the court also applied the three-year statutory time‑limit to part of the second applicant’s complaint. the second applicant’s other grievances were dismissed as unsubstantiated. however, it held that the first-instance court had erred in determining the relevant amount of personal space. the court held that under domestic regulations, a person confined to the prison hospital had to have at least 5.1 square metres of personal space. it then ruled that he had not had enough personal space for twenty days in total. on 15 july 2013 the second applicant lodged a request with the administration of vilnius correctional facility to be allowed to receive a portable digital music (mp3) player from j.g., in july 2013, the second applicant lodged a complaint about the above‑mentioned refusal with the prison department, which replied in august 2013 that the administration of vilnius correctional facility had acted in accordance with domestic law. on 13 january 2014 the vilnius regional administrative court ruled that the second applicant could receive an mp3 player from his spouse, partner or a close relative. the court had no doubts about the relevant provisions of domestic law and observed that they were designed to motivate inmates to work, to communicate with their relatives and to enhance their social ties. the second applicant appealed, and on 30 october 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. the second applicant found himself in the same position as that of other inmates. his right to have an mp3 player had not been denied, as he could have purchased one. it was not prohibited for persons other than close relatives to give money to convicted inmates; thus, the second applicant could have received money with which to buy an mp3 player. from the information provided by the government it appears that the applicant was able to watch television as there were specially equipped rooms which the inmates could use at any time, given that they could freely move around the premises of vilnius correctional facility.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in luhansk. she has had a first-degree disability since childhood. her injuries included concussion, a fractured jaw and nose, and numerous cuts on her face. they had found the applicant on her bed with her face smashed. on 9 december 2004, within civil proceedings (see paragraphs 11–16 below), the applicant’s representative requested that the first-instance court reopen a criminal investigation into the incident. on the same date the request was rejected. moreover, b. had died and therefore, in accordance with the law in force, no criminal proceedings could be instituted against her. on 19 february 2013 both investigations were merged. on 19 october 2004 the case was returned to the first-instance court with an expert report confirming that the applicant had sustained grievous bodily harm. in a court hearing the asylum’s representative submitted that in his view the applicant had initiated the conflict with b. herself and thus there had been no negligence on the part of the asylum’s employees. the court, having listened to the parties and witnesses and having examined the case material, concluded that on 2 april 1998 as a result of a fight between the applicant and b., “who at the material time was found to be without legal capacity” (яка на той момент була визнана недієздатною), the applicant had received injuries. the decision of 3 october 2006 thus became final and enforceable. there is no information to suggest that the asylum complied with the demand. on 22 november 2007 the complaint was allowed by the court. on 18 february 2008 the applicant instituted a new set of proceedings against the asylum, seeking compensation for loss of labour capacity and expenses for medications which the applicant permanently needed. on 15 june 2012 the zhovtnevyy district court allowed the claim. the court noted that, according to the court decision of 3 october 2006, harm had been inflicted on the applicant as a result of negligence by the asylum employees. no particular grounds for that assessment were given. both parties appealed against this judgment. on 17 february 2014 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine rejected the applicant’s request for leave for appeal as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in klaipėda. on 2 july 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs with intention to distribute. on 9 july 2013 the applicant was brought to šiauliai remand prison and was held there until 31 may 2016. following an appeal by the applicant, the judgment became final on 25 may 2016. he complained of: overcrowding; of there being no partition wall between toilets and cells; of insufficient ventilation; of insufficient time in the open air; of insufficient time for showering; of the presence of cockroaches; of inmates smoking in the cells; of no long-stay or short visits; of the fact that he had not been allowed to go home; of the low energy value of the food provided; of the prohibition on receiving food from relatives and friends; and of the prohibition on having his own blanket and a music player. 53, and the personal space available to him had varied between 1.87 and 3.12 sq. m. this had been a clear violation of domestic norms. for eighty-seven days the applicant had been held in cell no. m, and it had come close to a violation of domestic norms. the court further held that the presence of toilets in the applicant’s cell had not corresponded to the requirements of domestic law, that the lighting had been insufficient and the temperature had been too low, and that the food provided had had insufficient energy value. the applicant’s other complaints were dismissed as unsubstantiated. the applicant asked for a long-stay visit but on 20 january 2014 the prosecutor decided not to allow him such a visit. however, in his request of 31 january 2014 the applicant did not indicate any of those circumstances. the court thus decided to increase the compensation to eur 1,500. in october 2014 the applicant lodged a new complaint concerning his material conditions in šiauliai remand prison. it appears that the applicant had asked the prison management to allow him to receive a long-stay visit from his spouse and his sister on 28 april 2014. as regards long-stay visits, the court agreed with šiauliai remand prison and stated that the applicant had not been entitled to them under domestic law; he could have had short visits but, however, he had never asked for them. the court accepted the argument of the šiauliai remand prison that remand detainees had been held in prisons or correctional facilities for short periods of time and they were not in a similar situation to convicted inmates. the court awarded the applicant eur 869 in compensation for the material conditions of his detention. the applicant appealed, and on 21 september 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision in its entirety.
the applicant company operates a popular online news portal in hungary called 444.hu, which averages approximately 250,000 unique users per day. the online news portal has a staff of twenty-four and publishes approximately seventy-five articles per day on a wide range of topics, including politics, technology, sport and popular culture. the students at the school were predominantly roma. the supporters also waved flags and threw beer bottles, and one of them reportedly urinated in front of the school building. stated that “jobbik came in[1]” (bejött a jobbik). a journalist of the internet news portal. president of the local gypsy [cigány] municipality, talked to us about the incident. it also found it established that the applicant company was objectively liable for disseminating defamatory statements and had infringed the political party’s right to reputation, ordering it to publish excerpts of the judgment on the 444.hu website and to remove the hyperlink to the youtube video from the online article. it also obliges the fifth defendant to delete the link to the first defendant’s statement uploaded to youtube.com in its article "supporters on their way to romania stopped by to threaten gipsy students" published on 6 september 2013, within 15 days. with regard to the restitution in accordance with paragraph 1 c) of section 84 of the civil code, the court ordered the defendants - pertaining to the infringement they have realized by their proceedings - to make public in the affected websites the first and second paragraphs of the judgment that contain the establishment of the infringement and at the same time affect the plaintiff and declare the falseness of the statement that was made publicly available. this circumstance is rejected and regarded with disdain by a wide layer of society, and it forces the legal person "associated" with such events to explain and clarify its role (or in this case, the lack of its role). the fact that the defendants also included [mr j.gy. on 25 september 2014 the debrecen court of appeal upheld the first-instance decision. had qualified as a statement of facts because it had given the impression to the average audience that the football supporters had been organisationally linked to the political party. dissemination (or circulation) is the sharing of a piece of news as a content of thought and making it available for others. thus, even if a media organ prepared a balanced and unbiased article on a matter of public interest, it could still be found to be in violation of the law. two of the defendants also lodged a petition for review with the kúria. qualified as an opinion rather than a fact. the civil code established objective responsibility for the dissemination, irrespective of the good or bad faith of the disseminator. in such cases, according to the constitutional court, journalists neither made their own statements nor did they intend to influence public opinion with their own thoughts.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in zmiyiv. from april to december 2006 the applicant shared his room with fifty other prisoners. as from december 2006 onwards he was confined in another room of the same unit, measuring 48 sq. m and accommodating twenty-six prisoners. once a week, prisoners were allowed to take a bath. the prison vans used for transportation consisted of two compartments of about 2 to 3 sq. m each, had no windows, and accommodated twelve inmates in each compartment. trips lasted for more than twelve hours in one direction. according to the government, the applicant was detained in unit no. having relied on certificates issued by the prison authorities in march 2014, attesting to the conditions of detention in the unit on that date, the government submitted that the unit accommodated forty-two prisoners. the dormitory of the unit was of 75.5 sq. m. and consisted of three bedrooms measuring 10.1 sq. m respectively, which were equipped with necessary furniture. they relied in this respect on printed copies of various photographs, taken in 2014, allegedly showing some of the above-mentioned premises of the unit. according to the prison’s schedule, the inmates of the applicant’s unit had a bath once per week, and bedding and underwear would also be changed. the government therefore referred to domestic statutory provisions governing prisoners’ transportation. on 26 august 2008 the court invited the applicant to submit copies of documents pertinent to his complaints, including his appeal and appeal on points of law. according to the government, in 2004 and 2005, following the applicant’s requests, he had studied the case file in detail and had been served with copies of procedural documents in his case, save for a copy of his appeal on points of law, which was not available in the case file at the time. according to domestic law, his access to the case file following his release was not limited. in particular, on an unspecified date in 2009 he had been placed in disciplinary detention for fifteen days.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in timişoara. on 20 february 2003 the applicant, a bank manager at that time, was placed in pre-trial detention by the bucharest anti-corruption department of the prosecutor’s office, on a charge of taking a bribe in order to favourably influence the acceptance of a loan requested by m.g. by a final judgment delivered on 13 april 2012 the high court of cassation and justice (“the high court”) convicted the applicant of taking a bribe. among the evidence which led to his conviction was the transcript of a phone conversation between the applicant and m.g. the conversation had been intercepted on the basis of a warrant issued by the prosecutor under the provisions of law no. 51/1991”) for the period between 13 august and 12 november 2002. the applicant complained before the domestic courts about the lawfulness of the interception of his phone conversation and the accuracy of the transcript. he alleged that the court had held that law no. 51/1991 did not afford the guarantees required under article 8 of the convention. however, the high court merely replied that the impugned interception had been lawful and within the scope of law no.
the first applicant (mr asainov) was born in 1968 and lives in moscow. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. at 5.30 p.m. the police ordered that the meeting finish early and began to disperse the participants. they were arrested at the venue of the event and taken to police stations, where they were charged with administrative offences and then convicted as charged by the justices of the peace. he had ignored the police orders to cease these actions and actively resisted the officers while being taken to the police van. on 29 may 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. on 7 june 2012 his wife, who had been an eye-witness to the events of 6 may 2012, submitted written statements to the court. according to her, she had come to take part in the authorised demonstration at bolotnaya square with her husband. the court summoned them to be examined at the hearing as witnesses. the applicant and his lawyer were duly summoned to that hearing. two police officers grabbed her hands and pushed her towards the police van. the logbook of persons brought to the khoroshevskiy district police station indicated that the second applicant was taken there at 7.50 p.m. and released at 10.35 p.m. on 6 may 2012. the administrative offence record stated as follows:
“on 6 may 2012 at 7.15 p.m. [the applicant] took part in an authorised meeting at bolotnaya square in moscow, broke through the police cordon and tried to approach the kremlin. [ the applicant] did not react to the multiple lawful demands of the police officers to cease these actions, thereby preventing them from fulfilling their service duties ... in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” 100 of the yakimanka district of moscow examined the administrative charges against the applicant. on 13 november 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow examined the applicant’s appeal in her presence and upheld the first-instance judgment. the second applicant’s request to have the police officers who had arrested her examined at the hearing was dismissed. however, at her request, the court examined a witness of defence who stated that the applicant had not participated in breaking through the police cordon and had not committed any unlawful acts. on 15 april 2013 the deputy president of the moscow city court examined the applicant’s administrative case in supervisory review proceedings and upheld the earlier judicial decisions.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vietnam. from 1 march 2012 until 25 july 2012 she was detained at limassol police station pending her deportation. m, she had had to share with another detainee and a mattress of about 1.90 m would be placed on the dirty floor alongside her bed. the mattresses placed in the cells to accommodate additional detainees were filthy and sleeping on the concrete floor with only one blanket was very uncomfortable. in addition to a disruption that had lasted three days in march, there were electrical failures or system failures quite frequently, for up to four hours. the wing had eight cells, which could accommodate a total of ten detainees. it was not, however, possible to estimate the length and frequency of the periods during which the applicant had shared a cell with another detainee. the remaining sixty-five days were unaccounted for. there was a central air-conditioning system, which provided either heat or cold air. m, for four hours per day between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. 17. as no response was received mr l. loucaides sent a follow-up letter on 9 january 2013. the delegation requested to be informed, within three months, of action taken in response to the immediate observation. by letter of 8 september 2008, the cypriot authorities informed the cpt that remand police custody rarely lasts longer than 16 days, and that, as regards immigration detention, pursuant to a recent decision of the minister of interior, he personally examines, on a case-by-case basis, the files of non-eu nationals detained for longer than six months. it is certainly positive that the cypriot authorities state that they intend not to keep aliens in detention for longer than 6 months. in the report the ombudsman observed, in so far as relevant to the present case, the following. it had thus substantially exceeded its capacity. taking into account the cpt’s recommendations, none of the cells were of an adequate size. 2010 and the united nations standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners (1957)). the cells had no windows but just glass blocks which did not allow natural ventilation and light. in particular, in addition to overcrowding, the shortcomings that existed as to natural ventilation, minimum/basic hygiene conditions and the failure to separate pre-trial detainees from immigration detainees, rendered the centre completely unsuitable for detention, especially for a period exceeding six months.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1975 respectively and are currently detained in sevan prison. they are brothers and used to live in and run their business activities from the town of gavar before their conviction and imprisonment. shortly after the shooting and had understood from their conversation that they had shot at h.h. the applicants’ relative, stated during his interview that on the day of the events in question the second applicant had called him to enquire about the incident. the next day he had gone to the apartment, where he had found the first applicant and two other men whom he did not know. the applicants had then also fired their guns. on 15 june 2010 the applicants gave themselves up to the police and the main proceedings were resumed. during their interviews on 18 june and 21 june 2010 respectively the applicants pleaded not guilty and denied participating in the crimes they were being questioned about. on 4 march 2011 the proceedings were resumed and the case was assigned to the special investigative service. the applicants’ rights were explained to them and they exercised their right to be represented by a lawyer. was charged with the same offences as the applicants. according to the government, on 18 may 2011 a face-to-face confrontation was held between the first applicant and h.h., on 16 june 2011 the applicants’ representative lodged a request with the investigator, asking, inter alia, that a confrontation be held between the applicants, a.s. exercising his rights as an accused, had refused to take part in a confrontation with the applicants. in reply to those, on 28 july 2011 the gavar police informed the regional court that h.h. were not in the city and that they had no information about their place of residence. on 17 august 2011 the regional court again issued decisions requiring h.h., on 26 august 2011 the yerevan police informed the court that he was not in yerevan. all of whom had failed to attend the applicants’ trial. ’s and the second applicant’s cars; a crime scene inspection report; a number plate recognition report concerning the second applicant’s car; transcripts of calls to and from several telephone numbers; and a complex forensic fibre examination report.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant was a journalist and an active member of the popular front party, which is one of the opposition parties. at the time of the events he wrote for the newspaper azadliq and participated in various media projects. at around noon on 29 august 2014, when the applicant was on his way to work, a certain m.h. approached him near a bus stop, asking him why he had not replied to his messages sent via facebook. answered that he had not replied to him because he had probably not seen his messages. physically assaulted him by punching him in the face. at that moment he saw a police car and immediately asked the police officers for help. were taken to the absheron district police office. by hitting the latter on the head with a glass water bottle and also punching and kicking him in the face. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:
“... having examined the preliminary material of the case file (witness statements and forensic expert reports), the court considers that there are sufficient grounds to believe that there is a likelihood that the accused haziyev seymur mashgul oglu will obstruct the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings and reoffend.” the applicant also challenged the charge against him, claiming that he had only defended himself against the physical assault by m.h., whom he had not known before the incident. he claimed, in particular, that his pre-trial detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 2 october 2014 the absheron district court dismissed the application, finding it unfounded. on 13 october 2014 the sumgayit court of appeal upheld the first-instance court’s decision. on 11 november 2014 the applicant lodged an application with the absheron district court, asking to be placed under house arrest instead of in pre-trial detention. the first-instance court’s decision was not amenable to appeal. on 29 september 2015 the sumgayit court of appeal upheld that judgment. it was further upheld on 15 april 2016 by the supreme court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in katowice. the applicant is a former activist of an anti-communist opposition group, who was interned in 1982. he observed the trial against three high-ranking members of the communist-era military council of national salvation who had ordered the imposition of martial law in poland in december 1981. was convicted and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. this penalty was reduced by half under the amnesty act and its execution was suspended for five years in view of the defendant’s old age and poor health. another defendant was acquitted and another had her case discontinued. on 15 june 2015 the appellate court upheld the first-instance judgment. at 1.30 p.m., after the judges had arrived in the courtroom, the applicant jumped behind the judge’s table and shouted: “this is a mockery of justice!” ( tutaj trwa kpina z wymiaru sprawiedliwości). they were all holding up photos of victims of the communist regime. shortly afterwards, he returned and continued shouting out similar statements joint by other members of the audience. in view of the audience’s refusal to leave the courtroom, the judge who was presiding over the trial decided to announce the judgment from a different room. on 12 january 2012 a written decision, in the form of an extract from the court minutes as described in the preceding paragraph, was issued to that effect. the applicant submitted that he had not been served with that decision or informed of it. on 22 january 2012 the applicant lodged an interlocutory appeal against the decision imposing the custodial penalty. he also submitted that if the presiding judge had told him to return to his seat, he would have complied. on 31 january 2012 the applicant’s appeal was transferred to the warsaw regional court for comment. on 1 february 2012 the appeal together with the regional court’s comments was received by the warsaw court of appeal. following that decision, the applicant was transferred for several hours to a remand centre with a semi-open regime. his action had provoked the audience to shout similar slogans.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in blagoevgrad. he had been employed by the national security service, at the regional office of blagoevgrad, as an agent since 1998. on account of the nature of his duties, he had held a security clearance permitting him access to classified information constituting state secrets. according to the applicant’s job description, being in a possession of such a security clearance had been a prerequisite to him holding his post. on 20 november 2013, the director of the national security service issued a decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance allowing access to classified information. the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of that revocation, apart from a reference to section 59, in relation with section 40 § 1 f) and h); section 41 c) and d), and section 42 a) and b) of the classified information protection act (see paragraphs 12 and 13 below). the applicant lodged an appeal against the revocation with the state commission for information security. the latter, by a decision of 9 january 2014, upheld the revocation. that decision was final and not amenable to judicial review. on 6 march 2014, the director of the national security service ordered that the applicant be dismissed. the reason given for the termination of his employment was the revocation of his security clearance, possession of which was an indispensable precondition for him to be able to perform his duties. the applicant challenged his dismissal at two levels of jurisdiction. he contested the lawfulness of the dismissal procedure, arguing that he was not able to challenge, in the course of the procedure before the state commission for information security, the facts on which the revocation of the security clearance permit was based. the director of the national security service abused his powers in dismissing the applicant, who was not allowed an opportunity to defend himself. by its judgment of 19 march 2015, the blagoevgrad administrative court rejected the applicant’s claims, reasoning that the decision of the director of the national security service to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was a final and valid administrative act, and it rendered the applicant’s dismissal inevitable because he was no longer able to perform his duties. the court added that the applicant had exhausted the remedy provided by law by challenging the revocation decision, and that the latter had become final; in addition, the court was not competent to examine, within the framework of the dismissal proceedings, any questions related to its lawfulness. on 11 july 2016, the supreme court of cassation upheld that judgment, confirming that the decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was not amenable to judicial review.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. the applicants sued different state and municipal unitary companies (the debtor companies) in several unrelated sets of court proceedings. on the dates set out in the appended table domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in favour of the applicants to be paid by the debtor companies. 34145/11 the courts also ordered the debtor company to take certain action in favour of the applicant, as specified in the appended table. the companies were incorporated as state or municipal unitary enterprises. they provided services specified in the appended table. on various dates insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of some of the debtor companies. the companies were subsequently liquidated. the dates on which the insolvency proceedings started and ended are tabulated below.
the first applicant, mr eugeniusz bukowski, the second applicant, ms grażyna zmysłowska, and the third applicant, ms jolanta barszcz, were born in 1931, in 1960 and 1959 respectively and live in warsaw. the property in warsaw which gives rise to the present application (two adjacent plots of land with a detached house situated on it) was originally co-owned by the applicants’ predecessors, the d. family and the k. family. on 12 september 1996 the first applicant and on 25 february 1998 the second applicant joined the proceedings. in a decision of 3 january 2005 the mayor of warsaw noted that on 1 january 1998 the new land administration act of 21 august 1997 had entered into force. on 17 january 2005 the applicants applied to have this decision amended and the ownership of the land restored. on 21 november 2005 the mayor of warsaw issued a decision, granting the applicants the right of perpetual use of the land. the mayor decided to return the ownership of the building to the applicants and decided on the annual amount of fees to be paid for the perpetual use of the land. on 5 december 2007 the warsaw self-government board of appeal quashed the decision of 21 november 2005 (see paragraph 13 above) and remitted the case for re-examination. on 15 october 2008 the applicants lodged with the warsaw regional administrative court a complaint about the inactivity on the part of the mayor of warsaw. it further fixed the amount of annual fees to be paid for the perpetual use of land. on 5 november 2009 the warsaw self-government board of appeal upheld the impugned decision. on 27 november 2009 the applicants lodged an appeal with the warsaw regional administrative court. on 1 june 2010 the warsaw regional administrative court rejected their appeal as lodged out of time. on 24 may 2013 the applicants signed a notarial deed by virtue of which they acquired the ownership of the building and a right of perpetual use of the land. subsequently, on various dates, the applicants applied to have the case re-examined. following several remittals on 12 february 2013 the warsaw regional administrative court refused the applicants’ request. on 14 march 2013 the applicants lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme administrative court. on 20 june 2013 the applicants applied to the mayor of warsaw for transformation of their right of perpetual use of land into the right of ownership under the act of 25 july 2005 on transformation of a right of perpetual use into a right of ownership. the applicants appealed against this decision on 13 september 2013. on 3 november 2015 the supreme administrative court quashed both decisions.
the applicants are a married couple of roma origin. they were born in 1986 and live in hurbanovo. mr j. answered:
“... i did not care which yard i entered, if there had been more roma in that first yard where only one girl had been, i would have entered there and opened fire in that first yard.” during a second interview on 17 june 2012, mr j. stated, inter alia, that he was not able to explain the reasons for his actions, that he did not remember most of the events, and that he had wanted to commit suicide shortly after the shooting. mr j.: because there were people; if there had been people in the first yard, i would have maybe gone in there. on 16 june 2012 several witnesses were interviewed, including the applicants’ relatives. stated that mr j. was harsher on roma than on other people. the witnesses, including colleagues of mr j., stated that he had not expressed any anti-roma opinions or comments. m. had been caught stealing in a scrap yard with two other roma boys. on 16 july 2012 the investigator requested expert examinations of mr j. by two experts in psychiatry and one expert in clinical psychology. therefore, while he had been committing the crime in question he had had a significantly reduced ability to recognise the unlawfulness of his actions and to control them. the special prosecutor referred to, inter alia, the testimony of mr j., of the applicants, and of other witnesses, as well as the expert reports and the statements given by the experts when they had been interviewed, including the psychologist’s statements concerning the earlier violent confrontation between mr j. and roma children, and mr j’s growing feelings of helplessness, his fear of the roma, and his belief that in acting as he had he had believed that he was solving an issue with the roma. the ethnicities of the victims or racial motives were not mentioned and addressed. the applicants, together with six other members of the family, joined the criminal proceedings as civil parties. their lawyer claimed compensation for damage on their behalf. owing to the fact that mr j., his lawyer, and the prosecutor had all waived their right to appeal, the judgment contained only a brief description of the criminal act in question and the sentencing part, pursuant to article 172 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure. the scc found mr j. guilty of a serious criminal offence as charged, killing three people and injuring two. on 18 september 2013 the applicants’ appeal was dismissed by the supreme court (najvyšší súd). such leave was refused by the minister of justice on 17 september 2013 and 3 april 2014, respectively. furthermore, the second applicant received eur 4,090 in respect of his father’s death.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in istanbul. on 28 august 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of child molestation and on the same day he was brought before a judge at the gaziosmanpaşa juvenile court, who placed him in detention on remand. on 3 september 2007 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on his detention. on 18 september 2007 the beyoğlu juvenile assize court dismissed his objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 23 october 2007 and 19 november 2007 the gaziosmanpaşa magistrates’ court prolonged the applicant’s detention ex officio. on 16 december 2007 the bakırköy public prosecutor filed an indictment with the bakırköy juvenile assize court, charging the applicant with child molestation. on 31 december 2007 the bakırköy juvenile assize court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the basis of the case file, and decided that it had no jurisdiction ratione loci and that the case should be heard by the beyoğlu juvenile assize court and referred the case file to the latter. on 24 january 2008 the beyoğlu juvenile assize court declared itself incompetent ratione loci as well and sent the case file to the court of cassation to render its decision on the conflict of jurisdiction ratione loci. on the same date the court also ordered the continuation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the basis of the case file. on 30 january 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on the continuation of his pre-trial detention. on 14 february 2008 the bakırköy juvenile assize court dismissed his objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 23 june 2008 the court of cassation gave its decision authorising bakırköy juvenile assize court over the case. on 13 august 2008 the trial court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case file. on 12 september 2008 and 9 october 2008, respectively, the court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it. on 30 october 2008 the court held its first hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. during the hearings held on 21 january 2009, 14 april 2009 and 21 july 2009, at which the applicant was present, the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on remand. between the hearings, which were held with regular intervals of one month, the court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case‑file and decided to extend it 16. on 3 november 2009, at the end of the fifth hearing before the court, the applicant was released pending trial. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still pending.
the applicants were born in 1985, 1988 and 1985, respectively. during the night of 27 to 28 march 2008 l.m. he added that the car had broken down shortly after that and that they had been obliged to leave it and continue on foot. on 3 april 2008 the public prosecutor requested that an investigation be opened into the robbery of l.m. was taken to the investigating judge again. against r.k and against the second and third applicants. on 7 april 2008 the third applicant was arrested. had lied in his statement of 4 april 2008. be extended so as to include also the first applicant. in the presence of his counsel, he denied the charges. gave evidence to the investigating judge again. on 8 july 2008 experts established that the dna evidence collected from the water jug found in l.m. he added that the tamburitza, the combine-harvester radiator and the portable water hose, which had been found by the police on 28 march 2008 at about 1 a.m., had belonged to him. it therefore ordered his immediate release. on 2 december 2008 the first applicant applied to the trial court to present evidence as soon as possible because he had some important information concerning it. he had then gone to check the car found not far from there the previous night. ’s home, explained his report of 8 july 2008 according to which the material matched the dna profiles of l.m. the trial court dismissed the application. judicial records according to which the first applicant had three prior convictions, the second applicant had no prior convictions, the third applicant had two prior convictions, and, lastly, r.k. the applicants have served their prison sentences.
the applicants were born in 1963, 1960 and 1959 respectively. the first applicant lives in balzan, the second applicant in naxxar and the third applicant in sliema. the applicants are owners of apartment no. this apartment was inherited by the applicants from their father, who died in september 2006. initially, the apartment belonged to the applicants’ late father and his brothers. according to the applicants, in 1992, their late father had entered into negotiations with couple s., in order to reach a new lease agreement and increase the rent. on 17 october 1994, a deed of partition was signed by the siblings and the apartment in question was assigned in its entirety to the late father of the applicants. on 11 august 1998 the temporary emphyteusis came to an end. the rent established at the time, calculated in accordance with the law, was mtl 170.70 (around eur 397.62) annually and was to be revised every fifteen years (according to articles 12 and 13 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance). the next revision of the rent was scheduled for 2013 and the rent then would be eur 568.06. neither the applicants, nor their late father ever accepted any rent paid by couple s. on the following grounds: the rent due as calculated according to the law was far less than the rental market value of the apartment; the law in question (article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance) was in breach of their rights as stipulated in article 1 of protocol no. however, due to the change in law (brought about by act xxii of 1979), couple s. had remained therein rendering it impossible for the applicants to regain possession of their apartment. furthermore the rent due to them, as established by the law, failed to strike a fair balance between the rights of the owners and the rights of couple s. they also argued that they needed the apartment for their own use. the applicants requested that the court provide them with the necessary compensation for the damage they had suffered. on 29 january 2014, the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, found against the applicants, dismissed their claims and ordered them to pay the expenses of the proceedings. on 6 february 2015, the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ appeal and upheld the decision of the first‑instance court. the constitutional court ordered the applicants to pay for the costs of the appeal proceedings. in consequence they were aware that the rent would remain relatively low, like the ground rent had been. furthermore, the constitutional court argued that the owners could have requested a higher ground rent. nevertheless, they didn’t and they had entered the contractual relationship voluntarily fully aware of the consequences that would ensue.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in palanga. the director claimed that company m. had not obtained any services from those companies and that he had not pre-approved those transfers. the director of company m. was questioned as a witness and stated that in may 2012 he had entered into a contract for accounting services with company a., of which the applicant was the director. one such suspicious transfer had been a payment of 120,000 lithuanian litai (ltl) (approximately 34,750 euros (eur)) to company a. 8. on 9 april 2014 the applicant was called as a witness. he refused to give testimony in relation to his wife’s actions and the payment of ltl 120,000 received by company a. from company m. 10. on 26 may 2014 a prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office gave the applicant a fine of ltl 650 (approximately eur 188) for refusing to testify, as provided for in article 163 of the ccp (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below). the applicant lodged a complaint with a senior prosecutor. he argued that the status of a “special witness” was similar to that of a suspect, and therefore he should not have been compelled to testify against his wife, who had such status. he relied on article 31 of the constitution, which prohibits compelling a person to testify against his or her family members (see paragraph 18 below). on 9 june 2014 a senior prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds that, in accordance with the ccp, only the family members of a suspect or an accused were exempt from liability for refusing to testify, but the ccp did not extend such a privilege to the family members of a “special witness” (see paragraph 19 below). the applicant lodged a complaint with the klaipėda district court, raising essentially the same arguments as those which he had raised before (see paragraph 11 above). on 9 july 2014 the klaipėda district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint and upheld the reasoning in the prosecutor’s decision (see paragraph 12 above). it stated that the applicant’s right not to testify against his wife would have been breached only if his wife had had the status of a suspect and not that of a witness. that decision was final and not open to any further appeal. subsequently, the applicant lodged an appeal with the klaipėda regional court, but on 22 july 2014 that court refused to examine it, on the grounds that there was no provision for such an appeal in law. on 11 september 2014 the applicant was questioned as a witness in the pre-trial investigation. he stated that he was the director of company a., which provided accounting services to other companies. his wife worked as the financial director of company a., and from may to november 2012 she had provided accounting services to company m. the applicant stated that he had not known how or why ltl 120,000 had been transferred to the bank account of company a. he knew only that that entire amount had been returned to company m. within a week, in a transfer carried out by his wife. it appears that that decision was not appealed against and became final.
the first applicant, mr omer akçay (also spelt emer and emir akchay), who was born in 1960, is a turkish national. the first applicant’s surname is spelt as it would be in turkish. the first applicant has been residing in turkey since april 2016. prior to that, from 1999 to 2016, he resided with his family in syktyvkar, in the komi republic, russia. the second and third applicants still reside there. at some point prior to december 1999 the first applicant moved from turkey to russia and started living with the second applicant in syktyvkar. he resided in russia on the basis of regularly extended residence permits. on 29 december 2015 the first applicant was invited to the komi fms, where he was made aware of the annulment decision and his residence permit was confiscated. he was given an exit visa valid until 20 april 2016. on 20 april 2016 the first applicant left russia. the second and third applicants remained in syktyvkar to take care of the farm and continue attending school. on 24 february 2016 the town court examined the first applicant’s appeal. he also had a farm which required constant attention. the court did not make any references to the nature of the threat posed by the first applicant to national security, other than stating that his record of administrative offences for the last three years had provided the necessary basis for the komi fsb’s request to annul his residence permit. on 17 march 2016 the first applicant appealed to the komi supreme court against the judgment of 24 february 2016, stating, amongst other things, that he had been residing in russia since 1999, and that since 2005 he had been living there on the basis of regularly extended five-year residence permits. issues relating to national security are specific, and their evaluation is carried out by designated bodies on the basis of information obtained from sources, including those outside of judicial control. 18577c of 27 november 2015 concerning the applicant’s actions posing a threat to the national security of the russian federation and its citizens, [actions] which serve as the basis for the annulment of the residence permit, in accordance with section 9(1) of the foreign nationals act ...
the [komi] fsb provided the court of first instance with [only] information whose disclosure was not limited ...” 27. on 13 february 2017 the administrative cases chamber of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to examine a further cassation appeal lodged by the first applicant. on 18 april 2016 the first applicant appealed to the town court against the above entry ban. on 19 july 2016 the town court rejected the first applicant’s appeal, referring to his administrative infractions and stating that “the impugned decision had been taken in accordance with the law and within the authority of the komi fms”.
the applicants, who were born in 1984, 1987 and 1988 respectively, live in i̇stanbul. on the same day, the judge at the i̇stanbul assize court decided to restrict access to the investigation file, under article 153 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure (the “ccp”), law no. 3713), which was in force at the material time. on 26 august 2007 the applicants were questioned by police officers from the anti-terror branch of the i̇stanbul security directorate, in the presence of their lawyer. they were mainly questioned about certain records of telephone conversations and the incident of the arson of vehicles during an illegal demonstration. the applicants did not remember that they had had these conversations but claimed that these conversations did not prove that they had committed the offences with which they were charged with, or that they attended the illegal demonstration on behalf of a terrorist organisation. on 31 august 2008 the applicants’ lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 26 august 2007 ordering the applicants’ detention, and requested their release. on 3 december 2007 the i̇stanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicants, accusing them, inter alia, of membership of a terrorist organisation, illegal possession of explosives and causing damage to public property. on 17 december 2007 the i̇stanbul assize court accepted the indictment. on 27 december 2007 the i̇stanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and dismissed the applicants’ requests for release. on 18 april 2008 and 22 july 2008 the court held further hearings, in which the applicants and their lawyer were present. at the end of the third hearing, held on 20 november 2008, the court prolonged the applicants’ detentions. the applicants were present at this hearing. subsequently, they filed an objection against this decision. on 28 november 2008 the 11th chamber of the i̇stanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or their representative. on 24 november 2009, 30 march 2010 and 24 may 2012, respectively, the applicants were released from detention on remand. the court convicted the first and the third applicants and sentenced them to imprisonment. the judgment in concerning the acquittal of the second applicant became final, as there was no appeal against it. accordingly, the case file was remitted to the first instance court. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the first and third applicants are still pending before the i̇stanbul assize court.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in baia mare. red-handed being given money by a relative of v.t.v., the press release read as follows:
“after being informed by police that v.f. moreover, the suspect told the detainee that part of the money was to go to the magistrates, judges and prosecutors responsible for the conditional release of detainees. she contended that at the time of the incident she had been the judge delegated to baia mare prison and because of the applicant’s press release and interview with axa tv it was suggested by the media that she might be the alleged recipient of the money. the disciplinary commission for the prosecutors of the scm instituted an investigation against the applicant in connection with two disciplinary offences, namely failure to observe the secrecy of deliberations or the confidentiality of documents that are of a secret nature, and adopting a disrespectful attitude towards colleagues in the exercise of his duties under article 99 letters d) and k) of law no. the first had had no objections concerning the press release; the other had advised him that he should limit its content to aspects concerning the investigation carried out by his office. he also proposed that the news editor of axa tv be questioned. at the same hearing the scm’s disciplinary commission heard evidence from the prosecutor who had organised the flagrante delicto operation. the applicant asked the scm to question the two journalists. when questioned by the scm at the hearing of 31 march 2009, the prosecutor in charge of the case at the nap stated that the press release issued by the applicant had not jeopardised the outcome of the criminal investigation. and the letters she had received in reply. his references had been general and impersonal and he had made no reference to any specific person. 303/2004 and imposed a disciplinary sanction under article 100 of law no. the disciplinary commission noted that the applicant had issued a press release and given an interview to axa tv revealing information about the investigation into the offence of influence peddling on 22 october 2008. as one of the alleged recipients of the money. in the high court’s opinion the applicant should not have added to his press release the reference to “magistrates, judges and prosecutors responsible for the conditional release of detainees”. already had a strained relationship with the local media. by a decision of 8 december 2009 the high court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 19 may 2009 the deputy chief prosecutor in the prosecutor’s office attached to the maramureş county court lodged a complaint against the applicant, claiming that the latter had continued to act as chief prosecutor in spite of the scm’s decision of 5 may 2009 by which he had been removed from that position (see paragraph 43 above).
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in ljubljana. on 8 october 1992 the applicant became a member of l.e., which was at that time a public limited company operating under slovenian law. the first one, however, remained registered as a member of l.e. claiming the payment of three sums arising from their business dealings, totalling approximately sit 5,000,000. died, but nevertheless remained registered as a member. since the members failed to appoint a new director, as required (see paragraph 37 below), the applicant’s dismissal was not entered in the court register and he remained registered as managing director of l.e. on 19 june 1997, on the applicant’s initiative, the general meeting of l.e. the applicant alleged that some members of l.e. on 31 july 1997 the applicant stopped working for l.e. did not appeal; the judgment became final on 12 january 2001. on the same day, the decision to initiate strike-off proceedings was entered in the court register. by sending it to the company’s address, but like the previous decision, it was returned on 4 june 2001 with the information that the addressee had failed to collect it. had nine registered members (including the applicant). lastly, he applied for a stay of enforcement. in its judgment of 12 march 2005, the ljubljana local court found that the onus of proving his status as passive member was on the applicant and that he had failed to prove that he had not been an active member of l.e. moreover, even after he had resigned as managing director, he had still been active in the running of the company and had also signed the winding-up petition. lastly, the court took note of the fact that the applicant had indeed made a winding-up petition on behalf of l.e., consequently, even a positive outcome of the constitutional complaint could not improve the applicant’s position. have paid to the slovenian railways in this connection.
the first applicant was born in 1988, the second applicant was born in 1994 and the remaining applicants were born in 2010-2016. as submitted by them, the events leading to their departure were as follows. however, in 2010 he had to return to chechnya. after that he agreed to become an informer and was released after five days of detention. they submitted to the court that they had told the border guards in russian that they were seeking asylum, but asylum proceedings had not been initiated. it was also indicated that the decisions could be appealed against before a regional administrative court within fourteen days. the applicants were asked to sign the decisions. in the space for a signature on each of the seven decisions, the first and second applicants wrote “azul’” in cyrillic (азуль) – they submitted to the court that that word was often used by chechen asylum seekers to mean “asylum”. at 12.45 p.m. the alien was returned to belarus. they did not appeal against the decisions refusing them entry into lithuania. on 11 may 2017, around noon, the applicants arrived at the kena checkpoint on the border between lithuania and belarus. however, asylum proceedings were not initiated. the border officer who was on duty at the kena checkpoint that day submitted the following official report to a senior officer:
“i hereby inform you that on 11 may 2017 ... when i was examining the train [from moscow to kaliningrad], at around 12:00 p.m., the following russian nationals [the applicants] submitted their documents for inspection. the decisions were written in lithuanian and it was not indicated on them whether they had been translated into russian. the court has not been informed if a similar report was drawn up with regard to the first applicant and the other two children. the applicants’ stay in belarus was legal until 10 july 2017. soon afterwards the first applicant was detained. they were admitted to a refugee reception centre in poland to await the decision on their asylum applications. he submitted that he had not known where he had been held and that he had been beaten up by the staff at the detention facility. in march 2018 the first applicant travelled to belarus and managed to submit an asylum application on the polish border.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in vilnius. according to the most recent information available to the court, the exact plot of land he had owned was 6.0961 hectares. it appears that they did so following an application lodged by the applicant to have her right to a plot of land of 0.32 hectares transferred from vilnius to the vilnius region. it was indicated in the decision that her rights to the remaining 0.2884 hectares would be restored later. on 26 february 2018 the nls held a meeting to consider the location where the applicant had chosen four plots of land. it appears that at the date of the latest information available to the court (17 september 2018), the applicant’s property rights to 0.2884 hectares of her father’s land had not yet been restored. it appears that this request was the change of her initial wish as regards the form of restitution (see paragraph 8 above). on 27 june 2005 the vilnius county administration (“the vca”) restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0973 hectares of her father’s land by transferring to her a plot of land in vilnius for the construction of an individual house. on 10 february 2006 the vca restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0544 hectares of her father’s land by transferring to her eleven plots of land in the former pylimėliai village. on 2 may 2012 the applicant informed the authorities that she would not accept monetary compensation as a form of restitution and that she wanted to restore her property rights to her father’s land in natura. on 19 july 2016 the nls restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0042 hectares of land by returning to her in natura four plots of land measuring 0.0042 hectares in total. the court ordered the authorities to act in accordance with domestic law and to proceed with the restitution process. on 3 june 2005 the vilnius regional administrative court examined another claim lodged by the applicant that the vca had been protracting the adoption of a decision on the restoration of her property rights. the court held that the authorities had been inactive and ordered them to issue a decision restoring the applicant’s property rights within three months of the date on which the aforementioned court decision had become final (see paragraph 36 below). it was explained to the applicant that several measures had yet to be carried out in order to proceed. on 8 december 2011 the vilnius regional administrative court carried out a fresh examination of the applicant’s complaint (see paragraph 26 above). on 16 april 2012 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeals. she claimed that the authorities had failed to issue decisions restoring her property rights in due time and that her property rights had not yet been restored. the applicant appealed against the first-instance decision and on 7 april 2015 the supreme administrative court decided to reopen the case for examination on the merits in order to receive some additional documents. on 19 june 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the first‑instance decision.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in bucharest. according to a police report drawn up on 21 june 2005, the police division responsible for fighting organised crime and drug trafficking (“the police”) received information from an undisclosed source that an individual called “ursu-degweed” was a member of a network of dealers that was trafficking drugs in constanţa. the police initiated an investigation of their own motion. at the time of the events, the applicant was a student; d. was an acquaintance of the applicant, studying at the same university. d. called the applicant and asked him to provide her with some drugs. she informed him that a common friend, l., could help him to find a dealer, set the price for the drugs and sent the money by mail (postal order) on 23 june 2005. the applicant was accompanied by three friends. in his first statement to the police, given on 26 june 2005, the applicant disclosed that the dealer who had sold him the drugs was called b. and helped the police to set up an operation to catch him in the act of committing a crime. the applicant also stated that d. had called and had asked him to buy twenty ecstasy tablets for her. l. had given him the number of a dealer, b., who had sold him seventeen tablets. d. had also promised to offer him accommodation. the applicant maintained his allegations in a statement given in the presence of two lawyers of his choice on 19 july 2005. several hearings were held before the constanţa county court. the court dismissed his allegations that he had been entrapped. on 22 october 2008 the constanţa court of appeal noted that d. had never given evidence as a witness before the investigating authorities and that her name had only been mentioned in the reports drafted by them. on 24 october 2008 the court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the county court’s findings. it did not refer at all to the applicant’s argument that d. had not been heard. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, reiterating his complaints. he claimed that he had been unduly incited by d. to commit the offence of which he had been found guilty and that throughout the proceedings he had not had an opportunity to have her questioned. it upheld the reasoning of the two lower courts.
the applicants were born in 1951 and 1948 respectively and live in makiyivka. b.’s car collided with another car being driven by br., who sustained serious bodily injuries and was taken to hospital. ’s passenger at the time of the accident. between 5 february and 8 april 2002 the police conducted technical vehicular examinations and questioned br., the applicants, and several other witnesses. according to the results of the technical examinations, the applicants’ son swerved into the oncoming traffic lane and collided with br. between may 2002 and january 2005 the police ordered three forensic technical expert examinations, an additional technical examination, a vehicular trace examination, and three forensic expert examinations of the applicants’ son’s body. the investigating authorities found that the surviving driver, br., had previously been employed in a police security company, but that he had resigned before the accident happened. ’s car had not been seized; the circumstances of the accident had not been noted carefully; and the witnesses had not been identified. on 2 july, 4 september and 29 october 2004 the criminal case was terminated because the investigators considered that it had been the applicants’ son who had contravened traffic rules and caused the accident resulting in his own death. numerous investigating instructions were given. the applicants objected to the grounds on which the case had been terminated, because their son had not been exonerated. in particular, the investigator was instructed to prepare a bill of indictment. on 3 september 2010 the investigator closed the criminal case by his own decision, on the grounds that the person responsible for the accident had died. on 28 january 2011 the investigator referred the case to the district court for a further decision on discontinuing the proceedings. on 24 april 2012 the donetsk regional court of appeal quashed the decision of 31 january 2012 as unlawful, finding that the first-instance court should carry out a full examination of the case and give judgment, either finding the applicants’ son guilty or acquitting him. on 26 december 2013 the district court found the applicants’ son guilty of causing a traffic accident, but the sentence was not imposed owing to his death. according to information provided by the applicants, their case was going to be examined by the “authorities” of the “donetsk people’s republic”.
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants are siblings who were born in 1949, 1944, 1947, 1952, 1955 and 1954 respectively and live in vilnius. the seventh applicant is the first applicant’s daughter; she was born in 1968 and also lives in vilnius. in 1991 the fifth applicant applied for restoration of his property rights to his late father’s land, which had been nationalised by the soviet regime. were also possible candidates to have their property rights to that land restored. however, final sale agreements were not concluded and the seventh applicant did not become the owner of the plots. on 29 august 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights to the nine hectares given to them annulled. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). according to the information provided by the prosecutor, forests of national importance covered the entire plot of 3.20 hectares, as well as 1.37 hectares of the other plot (see paragraph 7 above). the applicants and the vca disputed the prosecutor’s claim. however, on 1 september 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed the claim. 89-91) and therefore the vca’s decision had to be annulled. it also annulled the preliminary agreements between them and the seventh applicant and ordered them to return to the seventh applicant the ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) which she had paid them pursuant to those agreements (see paragraph 8 above). the applicants and the vca lodged appeals against that decision. however, on 22 april 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the appeals and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety. on 26 july 2012 the nls sent a letter to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants which stated that it might be possible to give them two plots in naujakiemis, measuring 4.44 and 0.07 hectares, so if they wished to receive those plots, their requests would be considered when the land plan was being prepared. as for the restoration of property rights to the remaining land, the applicants were asked to consider alternative forms of restitution (ibid., § 92) and to inform the authorities of their choice. on 19 august 2012 the second applicant died (see paragraph 4 above). the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants were included in that list as candidates to receive two plots measuring a total of 4.4115 hectares. the decisions stated that the rights to the remaining 4.5885 hectares would be restored at a later date.
the applicant was born in 1978 and is serving a prison sentence in khabarovsk. on 30 july 2004 the samara regional court sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment. on 20 july 2007 the applicant was placed in correctional colony no. period of detention
cell measurements (sq. m)
number of inmates
7
from 20 july to 2 august 2007
18
2
no information available. the relevant documents have been destroyed. 10
from 29 october to 26 november 2014
18
2
6
from 26 november 2014 to 2 april 2015
18
2
010
from 2 april 13 december 2015
4
1
6
from 13 to 23 december 2015
18
2
010
from 23 december 2015 to 9 august 2016
4
1
10
from 9 august to 7 september 2016
18
2
010
from 7 september to 26 december 2016
4
1
7
from 26 to 27 december 2016
18
2
10
from 27 december 2016 to 21 july 2017
18
2
3
from 21 july to 3 march 2017
18
2
6
from 3 march 2017 to date
18
2 7. according to the applicant, the inmates are housed in double or single cells. since 2007 the applicant has been assigned to different cells, his conditions of detention remaining unchanged. there is no water supply or sewage system on the colony premises. the inmates are given buckets, to compensate for the lack of a toilet, which they have to empty every morning in a cesspool located some two metres away from the recreation area. they are allowed to take a shower once a week. the food is not fresh, lacks variety and is of poor quality. the milk is often sour, and the fruit juices are diluted with water. the temperature in the cell does not exceed +120c during the winter. the recreation area is divided into exercise yards measuring 7 m². the yards are covered with metal bars and screens. his hair was completely shaved off 2 to 4 times a month, and he had to shave his face 2 to 3 times a week. on an unspecified date the applicant complained to the prosecutor about the compulsory shaving. on 13 december 2013 the prosecutor replied that the compulsory shaving of the head and beard to which the applicant had been subjected had been unlawful, and that the prosecutor’s office had informed the administration of the correctional colony where the applicant was serving his prison sentence.
the first applicant was born in 1937, the second applicant was born in 1930, the third applicant was born in 1934, the fourth applicant was born in 1945, the fifth applicant was born in 1930, the sixth applicant was born in 1954, the seventh applicant was born in 1926 and the eighth applicant was born in 1929. on various dates in 1991 the first, second, third, sixth, seventh and eighth applicants applied for restoration of their property rights to land which had been nationalised by the soviet regime. the fourth and fifth applicants did so in 2000. gudeliai and kriaučiūnai were former villages which had become part of the vilnius city municipality in 1996. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). in all of the applicants’ cases, the courts upheld the prosecutor’s claims. the final decisions were taken by the supreme administrative court between january and march 2010. it does not appear that they received any answers from those institutions. on 9 november 2011 the nls adopted a decision to restore the seventh applicant’s property rights by giving her 0.251 hectares of agricultural land. in february 2012 all the applicants received letters from the nls confirming that, after the courts had annulled their property rights, they had retained the right to have those property rights restored. the decision stated that her rights to the remaining 0.7581 hectares would be restored later. the fifth applicant took part in that meeting but did not choose any plots. on 17 june 2016 the nls informed the first, second and third applicants (or their heirs – see paragraphs 5 and 6 above) that their property rights to 3.66 hectares would be restored by monetary compensation of 2,646 euros (eur). however, the applicants did not agree to this proposal, and it was not carried out. in february 2017 the nls sent a letter to the seventh applicant, asking her to indicate the area in which she wished to receive a plot. the seventh applicant’s heir (see paragraph 3 above) replied that same month, indicating her choice. the fifth, sixth and eighth applicants took part in those meetings but did not choose any plots. on 9 january 2018 the nls held a meeting for candidates to receive plots of land in certain areas around vilnius, including kriaučiūnai. the seventh applicant’s heir (see paragraph 3 above) took part in that meeting but did not choose any plots. at the date of the latest information provided to the court (12 october 2018), the applicants’ property rights had still not been restored with respect to the following plots:
- the first, second and third applicants – 3.66 hectares;
- the fourth and fifth applicants – 0.52 hectares;
- the sixth and seventh applicants – 1.22 hectares;
- the eighth applicant – 0.5181 hectares.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in kharkiv. on 14 april 2009 the kharkiv court of appeal sentenced him to ten years and six months’ imprisonment and the confiscation of all his property. decisions on his placement in isolation from the general prison population were taken in july and august 2010. according to a report by a prison guard dated 10 september 2010, the applicant refused to move from the single-occupancy cell to a dormitory, claiming that he feared violence from other inmates. following the communication of the application to the respondent government, the applicant submitted that the average living space per inmate in the dormitory cells of the colony was 2.8 sq. the applicant submitted copies of registers compiled by prison authorities of his outgoing mail. according to the applicant, in november 2009, while he was in the kyiv sizo, somebody poisoned him; as a result, he developed gastroduodentitis (inflammation of the stomach and duodenum), which became chronic. the applicant alleges that he was not actually given those medications. on 4 october 2011 the applicant was examined at a civilian hospital in kharkiv. he underwent an ultrasound examination and a biochemical blood test, which included aspartate aminotransferase (ast) and alanine aminotransferase (alt) markers for liver function. a number of medications and a special diet were prescribed. the applicant refused hospitalisation because he mistrusted the prison doctors and preferred to be treated in a civilian institution. on 17 october 2011 the applicant was examined by a general practitioner, who diagnosed chronic pancreatitis in the acute stage and prescribed treatment. from 25 until 31 january 2013 the applicant was treated for hepatitis – specifically, he received antispasmodic and hepatoprotective medicine – as an inpatient in the prison’s medical unit. he was hospitalised and treated for that condition from 28 february until 5 march 2008, prior to his arrest. from 24 april until 4 may 2012 the applicant was treated in the medical unit of the colony in which he was detained at the time for his osteochondrosis and disk protrusion. on 17 may 2012 the applicant underwent an mri (magnetic resonance imaging) scan of the spine in a civilian hospital. the applicant alleges that the recommendation was not implemented. on 3 september 2015 the applicant underwent spinal surgery. this diagnosis was subsequently confirmed on a number of occasions.
before his arrest he lived in berezna, a village in chernigiv region. he then went to a hospital where doctors established that he was heavily drunk and had eight gunshot wounds in the abdomen. during the search the police found another gun, a gas pistol modified so as to be able to fire live ammunition, bullets and explosive material. and o. between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. on 27 february 2007. y. had seen the man several times before, because he lived near y.’s house. y. left the café at about 1 a.m. on 28 february 2007 and was heading home when that man shot him with a small revolver with a white stripe. the applicant, who was forty-five years old and wearing a light-coloured leather coat, was invited to sit next to t., who was fifty-nine years old and wearing a dark-coloured leather coat, and g., thirty years old and wearing a black coat. on 5 may 2007 y. committed suicide for unknown reasons. at the same hearing the court questioned ty. ( see paragraph 6 above) in the presence of the applicant and his lawyer. after the fight o. had been covered with blood and had repeated, “i’ll do it to him”. ’s statements and did not ask him any questions. on 15 october 2007 the court ordered the police to bring those individuals to the next hearing. she stated that at around midnight on 27 february 2007 she saw the applicant standing near the café and observing the victim. on 16 november 2007 the trial court convicted the applicant of grievous bodily harm and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment. the applicant’s lawyer also pointed out an inconsistency between the victim’s original statement and his statement in the course of the confrontation with the applicant in respect of whether the victim had known the applicant before the attack (see paragraphs 11 and 13 above). they also complained that neither y. nor the witnesses proposed by the applicant (see paragraph 20 above) had been called and questioned by the trial court. on 4 june 2008 the supreme court dismissed the appeals in cassation. on 6 march 2009 the trial court replied that it was not legally empowered to give copies of documents after the termination of criminal proceedings. the chernigiv regional court of appeal suggested that the applicant’s sister address the trial court with her request for the documents.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in dubno. the applicant was the principal of a private school in the town of dubno, in the rivne region. when the applicant refused, the investigator asked the police officers to ensure her compulsory appearance for questioning. the police officers allegedly beat the applicant, twisted her arms behind her back and forced her out of the house barefoot. they placed her in a police car and took her to the office of the investigator. at about 1 p.m. on 29 may 2000 the applicant was released. on 9 april 2001 the dubno inter-district prosecutor’s office discontinued the investigation into the applicant’s criminal case, having regard to the insignificance of her offence. on 2 august 2001 the dubno town court quashed the decision of 9 april 2001 as unfounded and ordered that there be further investigation. on 14 august 2001 the investigation was completed and the case file was referred to the dubno town court for trial. on 30 january 2004 and 13 march 2006 the dubno town court issued judgments in the applicant’s case, which were quashed as unfounded by the rivne regional court of appeal. on 30 january 2007 the dubno town court convicted the applicant of failure to comply with a court decision, and decided that it was appropriate to punish her with a fine. on 17 april 2007 the rivne regional court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the judgment of 30 january 2007. on 13 november 2007 the supreme court refused to examine an appeal by the applicant on points of law, on the grounds that she had failed to comply with procedural rules when submitting it. she was examined by a medical expert, who found that she had sustained five bruises to her shoulders and had injured her left shoulder ligaments. the expert stated that the injuries had been caused by blunt solid objects; they could have been sustained in the circumstances described by the applicant. the applicant was not informed of the decision taken within the additional inquiry. on 29 may 2003 the applicant lodged a civil claim with the dubno town court, seeking damages for the violation of the inviolability of her home and her unlawful arrest and ill-treatment on 29 may 2000. on 9 july 2007 the dubno town court found that on 29 may 2000 the applicant had been ill-treated and unlawfully taken from her home to the investigator’s office. the applicant appealed on points of law, contesting the amount of the award. on 8 may 2009 the higher administrative court found that the appeal had not been prepared in a proper way.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in oradea. on 29 november 2000 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bihor county court (“the prosecutor’s office”) discontinued the criminal proceedings which it had opened against the applicant on 24 november 2000 for bribe taking. on 5 february and 11 june 2001, respectively, the prosecutor’s office reopened the criminal proceedings against the applicant for bribe taking and opened criminal proceedings against him for abuse of office. on 29 july 2002 the state agency for capitalisation of banking assets (autoritate pentru valorificarea activelor bancare – “avab”) joined the criminal proceedings against the applicant as a civil party. it sought the recovery of 27,863,805,105 romanian lei (rol) (approximately 1,758,753 us dollars (usd)), the damage that it had allegedly incurred as a result of the applicant’s abuse of office. also, at a hearing on 10 february 2003, the court dismissed the applicant’s challenge against the order of 16 august 2002 on the grounds that the measure was temporary and had been enforced correctly. however, it held that the applicant had to pay avab the damages it claimed because avab had suffered damage as a result of his actions. consequently, the court maintained the measure imposed on the applicant’s assets. it also convicted the applicant of bribe taking and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment, suspended. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the court of appeal. between 20 june and 11 july 2006 the court of appeal adjourned the proceedings twice to allow the parties to prepare their cases. between 30 november 2006 and 1 april 2010 the county court adjourned the proceedings thirty-two times to allow the parties to prepare their defence, for the court-assigned expert to produce two expert reports, and for the court to summon the parties and the witnesses, to hear evidence, for deliberations, and to allow the judges to exercise their right to strike. on 8 april 2010 the county court examined the applicant’s case on the merits, acquitted him of abuse of office and dismissed avab’s civil claim. consequently, it lifted the seizure measure from his assets. on 23 november 2010 the court dismissed the appeals of the parties and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. the applicant and avab appealed on points of fact and law against the judgment to the high court of cassation and justice (“the court of cassation”). by a final judgment of 4 may 2011 the court of cassation allowed the applicant’s appeal on points of fact and law in part. it held that he was guilty of bribe taking, but his criminal liability for that offence had become time-barred. the court upheld the remaining parts of the judgments delivered by the lower courts. on 4 march 2012, once the applicant had submitted certified copies of all the courts’ judgments, the bihor land and immovable property register removed the annotation concerning the seizure measure imposed on his immovable property from the above-mentioned register, which had prevented him from freely disposing of it.
the applicant was born in 1968 and has been serving a prison sentence in lukiškės remand prison since 16 january 2002. on 16 may 2014 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he also complained that toilets were not properly partitioned from the rest of the cells and thus the prison staff could see him use the toilet. he submitted that his health had deteriorated as a result of the inappropriate conditions of his detention and claimed 450,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 130,300 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 19 january 2015 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s claim in part. it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years after the damage arose, and accordingly dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 16 may 2011 as time-barred. on the basis of documents provided by the prison administration, the court found that from 16 may 2011 to 15 may 2014 the applicant had spent 1,082 days in lukiškės remand prison. during that period, for thirteen days and one afternoon he had had 3.24 sq. m of personal space and on one afternoon he had had 2.65 sq. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic standard of 3.6 sq. m. for the remaining time the personal space available to him was found to be in compliance with the requirement of 3.6 sq. the court also quoted the report of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) on its visit to lithuania in 2012. according to that report, nearly all the inmates in lukiškės remand prison were confined to their cells for twenty-three hours per day, with no out-of-cell activities other than outdoor exercise lasting one hour in small and dilapidated yards (see paragraph 13 below). the court noted that the prison administration had not provided any evidence that the situation in the prison had changed. furthermore, the court ruled that toilets had not been partitioned from the rest of the cells in the manner required by relevant domestic regulations. it stated that, in accordance with accepted social norms, inability to use the toilet in private was degrading and humiliating to the individual. the court considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention. it awarded the applicant eur 80 in respect of non-pecuniary damage, taking into account the “scope, intensity and duration” of the violation of his rights and the economic conditions in the country. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, arguing that the first-instance court had erred by dismissing part of his claim as time-barred, that the conditions in lukiškės remand prison had not improved and that his health had deteriorated because of them. on 10 november 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the first-instance court’s decision in its entirety.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in toretsk. in december 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the dzerzhynsk court against the social insurance fund (“the fund”), seeking damages for injuries caused by a work-related accident. by a judgment of 17 january 2008, the above court allowed the claim in part and awarded the applicant certain amounts in damages. the applicant and the fund both sought to appeal against that judgment. in particular, on 25 january 2008 the applicant lodged through the dzerzhynsk court a statement of intent to lodge an appeal (“the statement of intent”; заява про апеляційне оскарження). on 13 february 2008 the applicant lodged the appeal itself, in which he requested that the appellate court quash the judgment of 17 january 2008 and award him the claimed damages in full. a copy of the appeal bears the dzerzhynsk court’s stamp, with 13 february 2008 showing as the date of receipt. the applicant stated that no separate procedural decisions had been made about his appeal because it had been mislaid by the court. in a ruling of 18 march 2008 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) examined the appeal lodged by the fund, rejected it as unsubstantiated and upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008. the ruling did not mention the applicant’s appeal, and only stated that at the hearing, which was held on the same day, the applicant and his representative had contested the fund’s appeal and had asked the court to reject it. she also stated that they were not challenging the judgment of 17 january 2008 as regards the application of the law but rather were merely seeking an award of the full amount of damages claimed by the applicant. the applicant’s representative also asked the court of appeal to reject the fund’s appeal. the applicant submitted that at the hearing his representative had also produced a copy of his appeal and had asked the court of appeal to join it to the case file; however, the latter refused to do so. the applicant appealed in cassation to the supreme court of ukraine. a copy of the appeal in cassation submitted to the court shows that the applicant had dated it 17 may 2008. in it the applicant stated that he had lodged an appeal against the judgment of 17 january 2008 but that when he had arrived at the appellate hearing on 18 march 2008, it transpired that his appeal had been mislaid and his submissions had therefore not been examined by the court of appeal. he thus asked the supreme court to quash the ruling of 18 march 2008 and to remit the case for fresh examination. on 27 june 2008 the supreme court refused to grant leave for the applicant’s appeal in cassation. it did not address the applicant’s argument that he had indeed lodged an appeal, but that it had been mislaid. the decision of the supreme court indicated that the applicant’s appeal in cassation had been lodged in “april 2007”.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in poltava. on 18 april 2003 the applicant’s employer, grebinkivska district state administration (“the administration”), received a statement from the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office dated 17 april 2003 (“the prosecutor’s statement”). the document analysed the amount of preventive social work performed by the applicant in connection with minors in 2002 and concluded that the applicant, as the head of the juvenile service department of the administration, had no knowledge of the relevant law and displayed an irresponsible attitude towards her professional duties. the document contained a demand that the applicant be disciplined. on 21 april 2003 the administration examined the prosecutor’s statement and decided to give the applicant a warning against the use of excessive formalism in her work. on 14 may 2003 the administration informed the prosecutor’s office of the actions taken in consequence of their consideration of the prosecutor’s statement. on 10 april 2004 the applicant brought civil defamation proceedings against the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office, prosecutor mr b., the poltava region prosecutor’s office and the state treasury of ukraine, alleging that the prosecutor’s statement contained untrue information relating to her professional activity and that this negative evaluation of her attitude to work had damaged her honour, dignity and professional reputation. she asked the court to order the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office to retract the prosecutor’s statement and to pay her compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 8 december 2005 the pyryatynskyy district court of poltava region applied defamation law as contained in the civil code of 2003, the prosecutor’s office act and the information act. it considered the case on its merits and allowed the applicant’s claim in part. on 17 july 2006 the poltava regional court of appeal did not challenge the approach of the first-instance court in considering the case under civil law defamation provisions. however, it disagreed with the application of the civil code of 2003 and applied the old civil code of 1963. it partly allowed the claim and increased the level of compensation awarded to the applicant for non-pecuniary damage. on 20 september 2006 the state treasury of ukraine appealed against the decision to the supreme court. on 6 february 2008 the supreme court of ukraine quashed the above decision of 17 july 2006 and closed the proceedings, finding that the case should not have been examined in civil proceedings. the court indicated that the prosecutor’s statement should have been contested either before a superior prosecutor (in accordance with section 22 of the prosecutor’s act) or before “a court”. the supreme court also ruled that, according to paragraph 4 of resolution no. 7 of the plenum of the supreme court of ukraine dated 28 september 1990, entitled “on the application of legislation by the courts regulating defence of honour, dignity and reputation of citizens and organisations” (“the resolution”), it was not possible to file a civil defamation claim in respect of statements contained in courts’ decisions or decisions of various investigative bodies.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in sochi. the applicant obtained three judgments in her favour against various domestic authorities specified in the appendix. on 3 october 2008 the applicant refused to let the employees of the winner private company in, and they were unable to start the renovation works in the flat. referring to the applicant’s request, on 9 february 2005 the justice of the peace, of the 41st court circuit of yakutsk annulled the judgment of 11 november 2004 and ordered that the proceedings be reopened. the applicant unsuccessfully challenged the decision to transfer the case; the final decision was issued on 16 june 2005 by the yakutsk town court. since that date the applicant had not lodged any further applications with domestic courts. on 20 december 2005 the yakutsk town court left the applicant’s action against the bailiffs without examination, for the applicant’s lack of interest in maintaining the case. the applicant did not appeal against the decision. on 22 december 2004 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic upheld the judgment on appeal. the court found, in particular, that the enterprise was a due respondent, as the yakutsk administration had delegated to it the power to collect communal charges from the population. the debtor company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. the parties did not provide information on its core activities. it appears that it was, inter alia, in charge of collection of communal charges from local population. it also provided programming, data processing and it consultancy services. referring to a “notification” dated 19 april 2005 by the municipal unitary enterprise “payment processing centre”[1], the government submitted that on an unspecified date the judgment had been enforced in part, in so far as the obligations to count the amount toward the applicant’s debt and to recalculate the charges on account of the lack of hot water were concerned. they did not submit a copy of the notification. it appears that on 6 september 2007 the writs were returned to the bailiffs by an unspecified person or authority without execution. the parties did not provide copies of the relevant documents. according to the government, on 23 august 2008 the oao was liquidated.
the applicants were born in 1960 and 1959 respectively and live in vilnius. both sale agreements were certified by a notary. on 28 july 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have p.s. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). however, on 21 october 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed it. on 24 may 2010 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicants, and on 10 december 2010 the supreme court dismissed their appeal on points of law, upholding the lower courts’ decisions in their entirety. ’s property rights to 0.15 hectares of the 8.17 hectares given to him annulled, on the grounds that it was covered by a forest of national importance, as well as to have the applicants’ property rights to that part of the plot annulled. be annulled in respect of that part of the land. the applicants disputed the prosecutor’s claim. ’s property rights to the 0.15 hectares, as well as the sale agreement between p.s. the court has not been informed whether the applicants have paid the amount of ltl 49,500 (approximately eur 14,340) to s.m. ’s property rights to 3.52 hectares of land, he had retained the right to have those property rights restored. it is unclear whether the applicants replied to this letter. they were also informed that there remained about 0.10 hectares of vacant land in kryžiokai, so if they wished to receive a plot in that area, their request would be considered when the land plan was being prepared. they also stated that they would agree to receive a plot of land in kryžiokai but would first want to know its exact location. on 31 december 2012 the nls held a meeting at which candidates were offered plots in the relevant areas. the applicants took part in that meeting and chose four plots, measuring a total of 0.8035 hectares. on 21 august 2014 the nls adopted a land plan of the aforementioned areas around vilnius, as well as the list of individuals who would be allocated plots in those areas. the applicants were included in the list and were entitled to receive two plots of land, measuring a total of 0.203 hectares. ’s property rights by giving him 0.23 hectares of land.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in i̇zmir. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties and as they appear from the documents submitted by them, may be summarised as follows. the applicant and his brother sell building materials. the applicant and his brother had got out of the van and asked to see the police officers’ identity cards. then one of the police officers put his fingers in the applicant’s nostrils and pulled him up and the applicant tried to push that police officer away. thinking that the plain-clothes police officers, who had refused to show him their identity cards, could in fact be robbers, the applicant got hold of a wooden stick from the back of his van to defend himself. at that moment, one of the police officers, c.u., fired three rounds towards the applicant. one of the bullets hit the applicant’s abdomen and he fell to the ground. instead, the applicant and his brother were taken to a police station, where they were placed in custody. the applicant’s brother had shouted and asked the custody officers to take his brother to a hospital. on 22 may 2008 a prosecutor filed an indictment with the i̇zmir criminal court of first instance and charged officer c.u. with the offence of intentionally causing a life-threatening injury. in the course of the investigation and the trial, officer c.u. the forensic medicine institute concluded that the applicant had not been shot at close range. it also found that, although officer c.u. the objection was rejected by the second chamber of the i̇zmir assize court on 7 june 2010. in the meantime, the applicant instituted proceedings against the ministry of the interior before the i̇zmir administrative court and claimed 11,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the ministry of the interior appealed against the decision. the appeal lodged by the applicant against this finding is currently pending.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in pervomayskiy, the krasnodar region. the program was adopted on 10 july 1995 by the government of russia, in accordance with the decree of the president of the russian federation no. it provided, inter alia, for construction of housing for persons wishing to resettle from the far north to various russian regions. and the state unitary enterprise “united direction for construction of the kamchatka region” (the gup) concluded a co‑operation agreement. built the flats and transferred them to the gup, which was acting for the administration of the kamchatka region, to be registered as the administration’s property. on 2 february 2001 the applicant brought a court action against the gup for non-compliance with contractual obligations and provision of appropriate housing in accordance with the contract, instead of the flat initially provided to him. on 13 february 2002 the inzhavinskiy district court of the tambov region (“the district court”) rejected the claim. on 15 july 2002 the district court again rejected the claim. it quashed the first-instance judgment and remitted the case for a new examination. on 20 june 2003 the district court allowed the claim in part and declared the contract at issue null and void. on 22 july 2003 the district court supplemented its judgment of 20 june 2003. on 10 march 2004, on the appeal of the defendant, the regional court set aside the judgment as it contained an incorrect interpretation of the substantive law, and remitted the case for a fresh examination. the applicant applied for supervisory review proceedings. the applicant modified the scope of the claims. according to the government, on 2 november 2007 the applicant applied to the bailiffs’ service with a request to open the enforcement proceedings and enclosed a copy of the writ of execution. on the same date the enforcement proceedings were opened. however, the money returned to the company as the account had been closed in the meantime. on 19 september and 7 november 2008 the bailiffs requested that the applicant updates his banking account information. the company, incorporated as a unitary enterprise at the material time, had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. in particular, in 2002-2005 the company on several occasions became a client and managed funds in respect of construction projects under various federal targeted programs related to housing provision, including resettlement from the far north, housing for orphans and veterans, and received funds from the regional budget for that purpose.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in chernivtsi. in october 2002 the zalishchytskyy local court of ternopil region issued a writ of enforcement in a case against a private company, u. the parties did not provide any documents related to the proceedings against company u. 7. meters metallic shed) of a declared worth of 98,000 ukrainian hryvnas (uah) equivalent at the material time to around 13,950 euros (eur). in december 2005 the state bailiffs’ service concluded an agreement with a private company m. to hold an auction in order to sell the seized shed. on 3 april 2006 the applicant participated in this auction and bought the above construction for uah 26,000 (at the material time around eur 4,200). on 10 august 2006 the applicant sold the shed to a private person t. for uah 50,000. on an unidentified date, a third person s. lodged an administrative claim against the bailiffs and the applicant seeking to declare the bailiff’s seizure and sale of the shed unlawful as in fact it belonged to him. there is no information as to whether there was an appeal against this decision. in parallel, criminal proceedings for abuse of office were initiated against bailiff d. in charge of the respective enforcement proceedings. on 16 march 2007 the applicant was given victim status in these proceedings. in the relevant resolution it was noted that the applicant sustained pecuniary damage and had not been reimbursed the money he had paid at the auction. the amount of the damage aggravated the charges against the bailiff. on 2 august 2007 the zalishchytskyy local court convicted the bailiff as charged. in the text of the sentence the applicant is referred to as a witness. apparently, no civil claim was submitted by the applicant in the course of these criminal proceedings. the applicant referred to provisions on compensation of damage of the civil code of ukraine, in particular article 1174, and to article 11 of the law of ukraine “on the state bailiffs’ service” according to which damage caused to an individual by actions or omissions of a state official, in particular, by a bailiff during enforcement proceedings, had to be compensated by the state (see paragraphs 19 and 21 below). on 1 december 2008 the sadgirskyy district court of chernivtsi found for the applicant based on the above legislative provisions. following the defendant’s appeal, on 12 march 2009 the chernivtsi regional court of appeal quashed this decision and rejected the applicant’s claims as unsubstantiated. the court further noted that the applicant failed to demonstrate that the shed had been in fact seized from him without any compensation, or that the sales contract with company m. in charge of the auction had been dissolved. to support his claim the applicant reiterated again the civil code provisions.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in poarta albă prison. the authorisation for the operation was extended three times, on 18 august, 17 september and 16 october 2007 respectively. he sold to the undercover agent on that occasion 1.59 grams of cannabis, 0.23 grams of hashish and a cigarette containing cannabis. at the undercover agent’s request they met again on 25 july 2007. the undercover agent asked for more drugs. on 9 august 2007 the applicant supplied the undercover agent with 0.43 grams of cannabis. the applicant gave a statement in the presence of a lawyer appointed on his behalf. he pleaded guilty to the accusation of drug trafficking. he stated that initially he had only been a user (but not a seller) of drugs. in 2003 he had decided to stop using drugs. on several occasions he had gathered the cannabis and sold it to different buyers. a girl he had met in may 2007 in a holiday resort. he partly maintained the statement that he had given earlier, during the criminal investigation. on 14 may 2008 the county court heard evidence from the undercover agent, in the presence of the applicant who was assisted by his lawyer. the undercover agent stated that he had been introduced to the applicant by a drug user, who had informed him that the applicant had been trying to find buyers for hashish and cannabis. when determining his sentence, the court – referring to articles 74 (a) and (c) and 76 of the romanian criminal code – took into account as mitigating circumstances the applicant’s good behavior before and after committing the crime. it held that the applicant’s defence argument – according to which he had acted at the undercover agent’s instigation – was not viable as the undercover agent had not forced the applicant to sell him drugs. had been caught red-handed with 102 ecstasy pills when taking delivery of a parcel received by post. he also contended that he had merely been a drug user and not a drug dealer. it considered the applicant’s plea of entrapment to be unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1974 in khabarovsk and is serving a life sentence in the sverdlovsk region. from 25 may 2012 to 10 april 2014 the applicant was held in penal colony ik-56 in the sverdlovsk region. he was able to have five short visits in 2013 and one short visit in 2014. on 15 july 2013 the applicant asked the governor to allow him a short meeting with four adult relatives, his mother, sister and two cousins. he also asked for the meeting to be held without a glass partition between him and his visitors or the presence of a prison officer. the governor signed his decision on the petition: “rejected. not allowed under the code of execution of sentences”. from 15 may to 16 july 2014 the applicant was transferred to remand prison sizo-1 in khabarovsk – where his family still lived – to take part in another investigation. by a letter of 21 may 2014, the governor rejected his request. he pointed out that, pursuant to section 18 of the pre‑trial detention act, visits are subject to written authorisation from the official or authority in charge of the criminal case. furthermore, the rules of internal order in remand prisons required that visiting rooms be equipped with a physical partition and that visits be supervised by a prison officer. on 3 june 2014 the applicant asked the governor to authorise a long meeting with his mother and sister. three days later the governor replied that the applicable law did not make a provision for long-stay visits in respect of remand prisoners. he referred the applicant to article 77.1 of the ces. the applicant subsequently asked the authorities in charge of the criminal case to authorise short visits from his family members. on 11 june and 1 august 2014 the investigator and the deputy head of the investigations department, respectively, rejected his request. they informed the applicant that “the authorities in charge of the investigation were not preventing [him] from having short visits from his family members as long as it did not contradict russian law, including the code of execution of sentences”. the applicant challenged the restrictions on family visits before a court of general jurisdiction. according to the information from the government, all of his challenges were dismissed as unfounded. according to a certificate issued by the governor on 27 april 2017, the applicant did not have any short or long-stay visits during his time in the khabarovsk remand prison.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in washington dc, the united states of america (hereafter “the usa”). until 2008 the first applicant had been living in moscow together with his wife e. and their daughter, x. 8. an agreement was concluded between the first applicant and his parents-in-law that they would take x to moscow as soon as he returned there from the usa. however, b. and s. refused to take x to moscow. b. had told the officials that the first applicant had not visited his daughter. she would be better off living in tashkent where her mother was buried and where most of her family and friends lived. on 9 october 2009 the uzbek childcare authority visited x. the officials found that x’s living conditions were good. x told them that she missed her father but preferred to live with her grandparents. on 27 september 2010 the cheremushinskiy district court asked the childcare authority to prepare an opinion on the case and scheduled the first hearing for 19 october 2010. they also questioned his uncle, who stated that the first applicant lived and worked in the usa. on the same day the moscow childcare authority questioned b.’s representative, who stated that the first applicant lived in the usa, often travelled for work and could not therefore take care of his daughter. they were taking good care of their granddaughter and supported her financially because her father did not pay any child maintenance. x’s return to her father against her will would traumatise her. the court ordered b. and s. to bring x to testify at that hearing. on 20 january 2011 the childcare authority issued its opinion on the case. on 19 april 2011 the mayor of the mirzo-ulugbek district of tashkent appointed s. as x’s guardian, finding that her mother had died, that her father’s whereabouts were unknown and that she had been brought up by s. since 2008. on an unspecified date the cheremushinskiy district court received the questioning record and scheduled the next hearing for 15 november 2011. on 31 january 2012 the first applicant asked that the hearing of 1 february 2012 be held in his absence. by contrast, he had had the same telephone number and email address for at least ten years and x knew them. the first applicant had not taken part in her upbringing and had not supported her financially.
the applicant was born in 1950 and, at the time of the last communication from him to the court, was detained in torez correctional colony. the applicant, represented by a lawyer, stood trial before the kerch court on charges of engaging in sexual intercourse with his stepdaughter, a. (born in 1999), over the period between march 2006 and april 2007. the applicant denied the charges, asserting that he may have broken a.’s hymen by accident while bathing her. on 27 july 2007 the trial court found the applicant guilty of rape and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment. the judgment was based, in particular, on
(i) the victim’s statements made at the pre-trial stage;
(ii) the statements of a number of witnesses (comprising nannies, a classmate and a psychologist) made during the court hearings, who had reported incriminating statements that a. had made to them. witness k. had testified that, in the relevant period, she had had sexual relations with the applicant;
(iii) the conclusions of experts who had examined the applicant and the victim. the experts had concluded that the victim’s hymen had been broken and it was unlikely that that had been caused by unintentional actions; the victim and the applicant both had a fungal infection on their genitalia; the examination of the applicant’s genitalia had not revealed any obstacle to his having sexual relations; the victim suffered from a light mental retardation and the applicant did not suffer from any psychiatric illness. according to the applicant, the trial court had refused to order an additional expert examination to determine whether, because of any disease of his “internal sexual organs”, he had been unable to engage in normal sexual intercourse at the relevant time. on 11 september 2007 the crimea court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction. the applicant lodged an appeal in cassation with the supreme court. he argued that there had been insufficient evidence of his guilt. the appeal contained the following statement:
“the court’s conclusion as to my guilt is based only on indirect evidence and on the statement of a minor [a.], made in the course of the pre-trial investigation and who, according to a psychiatric expert’s analysis, was suffering from mental retardation” (вывод суда о моей виновности сделан судом только на основании косвенных доказательств, а так же [sic] на показаниях малолетней [a.], которые она дала на досудебном следствии, и которая, согласно заключению судебно-психиатрической экспертизы, страдает умственной отсталостью). however, even if such a penetration had been intentional, it would not have constituted the offence of rape. the applicant asked the supreme court to reclassify his actions as “abuse of a minor” (розбещення неповнолітніх), a lesser offence than rape, and to impose a non-custodial sentence. on 9 june 2008 the supreme court refused to consider the case in cassation and upheld the lower courts’ findings. on 27 november 2008 the court’s registry asked the applicant to provide copies of his appeal, his appeal in cassation and the decision of the supreme court in his case, to supplement his application. he accordingly requested those documents from the trial court, the court of appeal and the supreme court. on 19 january 2009 the court of appeal advised the applicant that he needed to address his request for the copies to the trial court. on 26 january 2009 the trial court informed the applicant that it was not empowered to send him the requested copies. on 28 january 2009 the supreme court informed the applicant that it was not the court’s practice to issue copies of appeals in cassation or of its decisions.
the applicant was born in 1983 and currently lives in paris. she was then taken to a police station to have her identity verified. in the meantime she was dismissed by her employer because of her unauthorised absence from work. the police also found several photographs of an escalator in the okhotniy ryad shopping centre in the centre of moscow. the next day an investigator granted the motion in the part concerning the questioning of a., questioned him and informed the applicant about the decision on her motion. on 2 december 2004 the applicant received a copy of the case file for review. had first met the applicant at a mosque in october 2003. in their conversations the applicant had glorified terrorism and had approved of suicide bombings and the methods and targets of the chechen insurgents. on 3 march 2004 the applicant had told v. and ku. in particular, during her pre-trial questioning v. had testified that the applicant had undergone terrorist training in a camp near baku and that she had been indoctrinating v. and ku. they had simply wanted to reside together to pray, read and live free from parental supervision. further stated that the applicant’s acquaintance, a., was a policeman and that he had paid for the flat where the three of them had lived. he had also occasionally given them money. she denied having given her pre-trial statements under pressure. p. further explained that he had stopped the applicant “because it had been unclear where she had been going to”, because she had “resembled a girl from a wanted persons notice”, and because she was “a person of caucasian ethnicity [that is to say from the north caucasus region]”. about the manner in which the attesting witnesses were chosen. she further stated that the six photographs of the escalator that had been seized from her flat had been taken by her. immediately after viewing the videotape the applicant’s lawyer s. submitted oral motions to summon attesting witnesses b. and k. and police officer a. the relevant part of the trial records reads as follows:
“lawyer s.: i request to summon the attesting witnesses who were present during the personal search of murtazaliyeva, that is, b. and k., in order to determine the relevant circumstances [and] whether or not plastic explosives were planted. prosecutor: i object, because the accused was questioned and stated that the record [of the search] had been drawn up without any violation of the law...
the court decided that the motion for summoning the attesting witnesses would not be granted. the applicant and her lawyers appealed against her conviction.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in juodšiliai in the vilnius region. on 4 december 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the applicant’s mother’s property rights to the six hectares given to her annulled. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). the applicant and the vca disputed the prosecutor’s claim. the applicant and the vca lodged appeals against that decision, arguing that the restoration of the applicant’s mother’s property rights had complied with the relevant legislation. the applicant also submitted that he was being deprived of his property without any compensation. it is unclear whether he replied to this letter. on 21 august 2012 the applicant sent a letter to the nls. in the applicant’s view, being put on the list with 4,806 other candidates and being made to wait for an undetermined period of time for restitution was unacceptable. if he could not be given such a plot, he wished to receive compensation of ltl 251,217. the applicant also stated that he would only be able to decide whether he wished to receive a plot in pagiriai after being presented with a plan of a specific plot. he stated that he did not wish to choose any other form of restitution. on 7 october 2013 the nls approved the list of candidates to receive plots of land in several areas around vilnius, including pagiriai. the applicant’s mother was included in that list as a candidate to receive six hectares of land. on 22 october 2013 the nls held a meeting in which candidates were offered plots in the relevant areas and the applicant took part in that meeting. according to the minutes of the meeting, which were approved by the nls, he stated that the question of the restoration of his property rights was pending before the european court of human rights, that he was dissatisfied with the available vacant land and that he refused to choose any plots (žemės sklypų nesirinko). on 22 april 2016 the nls held another meeting in which the applicant took part. the applicant examined the land plan but did not make any decisions with regard to the available plots (jokių sprendimų nepriėmė), stating that he would “seek solutions from organisations of a higher instance”. he therefore “saw no possibility of choosing any plots” (žemės sklypų pasirinkimo galimybių nemato). he again stated that he had lodged an application with the european court of human rights and wished to receive that court’s decision  only then would he decide “what to do with the land which had not been returned to him”.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in komotini. m plot of farmland near komotini; one-half of a 127 sq. 12.785/2003 of 10 june 2008 the komotini court of first instance, on the basis of a next-of-kin certificate submitted by the applicant, approved the will presented before it. on 6 april 2010 the applicant accepted her husband’s estate by notarised deed. the treasury was notified and the applicant registered the property transferred to her with the komotini land registry, paying the corresponding registration fees. it does not appear from the case file that the applicant had to pay any inheritance tax on the property transferred to her. on 12 december 2009, meanwhile, the deceased’s two sisters had challenged the validity of the will before the rodopi court of first instance. they asserted a claim to three-quarters of the property bequeathed. the court added that although the application of sharia law was based, inter alia, on international law, and in particular on the combined effect of articles 42 and 45 of the treaty of lausanne, it should not result in the islamic law of succession being applied in such a way as to curtail the civil rights of greek muslims, because the aim of the treaty had not been to deprive the members of that minority of such rights, but to strengthen their protection. on 16 june 2010 the deceased’s sisters appealed against the aforementioned judgment. on 28 september 2011 the thrace court of appeal dismissed the appeal (judgment no. 1920/1991 the court of cassation allowed the appeal. examining the reasoning of the court of appeal’s judgment, it concluded that that court’s determination of the case had breached the relevant legislative provisions, because the law applicable to the deceased person’s estate had been the islamic law of succession, which formed part of domestic law and applied specifically to greek nationals of muslim faith. the court of cassation remitted the case to the thrace court of appeal. 1920/1991 and of article 45 of the treaty of lausanne. she put forward a number of grounds of appeal. the specific provisions concerning the muslim minority could not, in her submission, be applied without violating the individual rights of muslims as guaranteed under the greek constitution, as well as by article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 556/2017 of 6 april 2017 the court of cassation dismissed the appeal on points of law. it did not refer to the convention in its reasoning. by the date of the present judgment the court had yet to be informed of the progress of those proceedings.
the applicant, a turkish national, was born in 1980 in neustadt/weinstraße (neustadt) and lives in speyer. the applicant’s parents had migrated to germany. in 1982 the applicant witnessed the murder of his mother by his father. on 9 july 2007 the neustadt district court convicted him of several offences committed in 2005 and 2006, including violent and traffic offences, as well as drug trafficking, and sentenced him to two years and six months’ imprisonment. on 6 november 2009 the applicant was taken into pre-trial custody. after serving the initial part of his sentence in prison, the applicant was moved to a psychiatric prison as of august 2011. in may 2014, the clinic still considered the applicant’s risk of relapse to be significant. on 2 december 2014 the applicant was released and the remainder of the sentence was suspended on probation. on 18 october 2003 the neustadt administrative court rejected the appeal. 1/80 of the eec/turkey association council of 19 september 1980 (see paragraph 30 below). moreover, the applicant could refer to exceptional life circumstances, in particular the violent death of his mother. the applicant’s daughter was born out of wedlock on 23 september 2009. as of that day, j. exercised sole custody rights. in the following weeks, the applicant lived with his daughter and j. in a common apartment, until he was taken into pre-trial custody in november 2009 (see paragraph 13 above). he was a chronic offender with a high potential for aggressive behaviour. making explicit reference to article 8 of the convention and the court’s case-law, the administrative court established that the reasons at the heart of the expulsion were sufficient to justify it, even though the expulsion might cause hardship for the daughter, who did not live with the applicant. he had never worked and essentially lived on social benefits. he would not be without support in turkey, even though the relationship with his father might be tense and other contact in turkey could only be established through his sister. an attempt to deport the applicant on 9 october 2015 was unsuccessful, because the applicant did not possess a valid passport. on 17 december 2015, the applicant submitted an asylum application, invoking the danger of re-traumatisation as a bar to his deportation.
on 13 june 2006 an investigation was opened into an alleged robbery committed against d.g., on 14 june 2006 a photo identification parade was organised. it appears that later an investigator made a note on the identification record that the victim had identified the person on photo no. there was no explanation as to why there were contradictory notes. 2, and an order for his arrest was issued. a personal search of the applicant and a subsequent search of his home did not reveal any unlawful items. a shop assistant who had witnessed the whole incident. she described the alleged robber and claimed that the applicant had a different appearance. by a letter of 5 september 2007 the victim once again informed the court that, in view of her pregnancy, she could not appear in court. the applicant was prescribed drug-based treatment and discharged on 4 november 2006 in a satisfactory condition. on 3 march 2007 the applicant was transferred back to the prison hospital, this time with an additional diagnosis that he had developed haziness of the vitreous body in his right eye. she claimed that he was suffering from a serious visual impairment of his left eye. in the period april-may 2007, acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, a private eye clinic called mzera eye clinic examined the applicant’s medical file and confirmed the diagnosis of a uveal cataract in his left eye. the expert recommended drug-based treatment followed by surgery, namely the implantation of an artificial lens. on 25 june 2007 his treating ophthalmologist requested that the prison hospital organise for an eye surgeon to see the applicant. it appears from the case file that, despite the above request, the applicant was not seen by an eye surgeon at that time. a decision was taken on 12 september 2008 to put him on the dots programme again. on 18 november 2008 the government submitted the applicant’s medical file to the court, and also gave an account of the treatment which he had been receiving in prison as of january 2007. according to the submitted information, on 14 november 2008 the applicant was seen by an ophthalmologist, who recommended that he receive treatment for conjunctivitis before a decision was made about surgery. on 24 march 2009 the applicant was released on probation.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in rustavi. on 24 may 2007 an identification parade was carried out. was convicted of murder and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. was declared inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. while he was at those facilities, nor has the applicant suggested otherwise. on 17 december 2008 the sputum test revealed the presence of tuberculosis bacteria, and a susceptibility test regarding first-line drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis was ordered (“the first susceptibility test”). with tuberculosis, and recommended that he be transferred to a specialist facility. was placed in a facility in ksani for prisoners with tuberculosis. continued to have treatment under the dots programme. on 24 february 2009 the results of the first susceptibility test showed that g.t. was resistant to the first-line drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis. on 10 april 2009 the results of the second susceptibility test were received by the prison hospital, and they demonstrated that the disease was responding to all but one drug out of the second-line drugs. on 19 may 2009 the investigative department of the ministry of prisons opened a preliminary investigation into premeditated murder. ’s treatment under the dots programme had been adequate. on 22 february 2010 the applicant was granted victim status. his sister had allegedly met a doctor at rustavi prison no. on an unspecified date the investigation was reopened. ’s sister had been questioned and after a forensic examination of the unsigned and undated prescription had been carried out to identify whether its author was indeed one of the doctors from rustavi prison no. ’s sister’s allegations were manifestly ill-founded. the relevant national and international materials concerning the problem of tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, and the world health organization guidelines for the management of drug-resistant tuberculosis are summarised by the court in the case of makharadze and sikharulidze v. georgia (no.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is currently serving a prison sentence in rubtsovsk, altai region. on 2 march 2011 the applicant was arrested. on an unspecified date he was charged with extortion and the murder of vos. on an unspecified date the jury returned a guilty verdict against the applicant and three other defendants. by a judgment dated 17 may 2012 the regional court sentenced the applicant to nineteen years’ imprisonment. on 30 january 2013 the jury returned a guilty verdict in respect of the applicant and three other defendants. on 19 february 2013 juror v. made a statement addressed to the trial judge. had also advised the jurors to check out the information concerning her son’s murder on the internet. v. had done so and, as a result, had been influenced by this information when finding the defendants guilty. it appears that the trial judge ordered an inquiry in response to v.’s allegations. submitted a written statement denying v.’s allegations. on 26 february 2013 jury foreperson g. signed a statement in which she indicated that she “had not been aware” of any instances of undue influence on the jury by ch. on 27 february 2013 the regional court sentenced the applicant to nineteen years’ imprisonment. on 28 february 2013 the trial judge asked the bailiffs’ service to conduct an inquiry in response to the statement made by juror v. 15. on 18 march 2013 the deputy head of the bailiffs’ service responded to the trial judge as follows:
“it follows from the reports submitted by the bailiffs ... and the bailiffs’ group supervisor that on the relevant dates the jurors were supervised by the bailiff ... while they were in the courtroom or in the jurors’ room. following an appeal lodged by the applicant and two other defendants, on 8 august 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction. as regards the applicant’s argument that ch. the materials in the case file show that ... ch. did not exert undue influence on the jurors. [the court] discerns no violations of the rules of criminal procedure, including those alleged by [the defendants], that would justify the quashing of the verdict.”
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in moscow. the background facts relating to the planning, conduct and dispersal of the demonstration at bolotnaya square are set out in more detail in frumkin v. russia (no. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, 5 january 2016) and yaroslav belousov v. russia (nos. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. it took them about two hours to clear the protesters from the square. she was arrested at the venue of the event and taken to a police station, where she was charged with an administrative offence. after a night in detention the applicant was released; on 8 may 2012 she was convicted as charged but exempted from administrative liability. she conducted herself peacefully and did not take part in any acts of violence prior to her arrest. according to the government, the applicant was arrested at 6 p.m. at bolotnaya square because she had been participating in breaking the police cordon. it contained no mention of the date or time of her release. she signed an undertaking that she would attend court if ordered by the judge to do so. the police officers who had arrested the applicant. her passport contained no information about her baby. she had no access to drinking water and was given no food. at some point she had been arrested and taken to the police station, even though she had not chanted any slogans. she signed an undertaking that she would attend the court hearing of the administrative case. on 8 may 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. 100 of the yakimanka district examined the charges against the applicant. on 28 february 2014 the moscow city court upheld that judgment.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in cluj-napoca. he is a university professor and contributor to various magazines and newspapers, mainly of an economic and financial nature. prior to parliamentary elections held at the end of november 2008, the applicant wrote an article about m.i.-i., who was standing as a candidate for one of the national parties. without even knowing exactly what [is wrong], most people of good moral and professional character often choose not to vote any more. they make that choice especially when they learn that the person appearing on the electoral poster asking for votes has never done anything remarkable in his or her profession. ... it is therefore no longer surprising that the romanian parliament is the institution that enjoys the least public confidence. there are candidates who do everything to become parliamentarians in order to shield their criminal record from the [criminal] acts they committed before becoming senators or deputies. among the many cases of that type, i today present you one. for that purpose, he borrowed 15 billion romanian lei for a period of 12 months, namely until 31 october 2008 – to invest on the stock market and earn a bit more than the creditor would request as interest, based on perfectly legal documents. that is why i say that we must be careful about what mr m.i.-i. for the following day he might no longer admit to anything, he may switch to another political party, if he is given more, he may even sell part of the electoral district where he ran and if nobody wants it, he can go to smirnov because it is warmer in tiraspol than in huedin.” he alleged that all the material had been meant to discredit him as a candidate. the applicant confirmed that he was the author of the article in question and that everything he had written had been true, as proved by documents from the arbitration tribunal of the cluj chamber of commerce, which would become available to the court. the court held that the applicant had not proved that his statements were true. had been partially granted on 7 april 2009, as the repayment deadline had been set for 30 april 2010. the court held that even if it was not the applicant who had produced or distributed the leaflets, there was a causal link between the publication of the article and the harm caused to m.i.-i. would accept any compromise for money and would therefore betray the electorate, his party and his country, had exceeded the limits of admissible criticism and had disparaged him. the applicant appealed, arguing before the cluj county court that the publication of the article in question during a parliamentary election campaign had had the role of informing the public, in good faith, about a political figure. in a final judgment of 21 january 2010 the county court essentially upheld the reasoning of the lower court.
the first applicant was born in 1963 and the second applicant was born in 1965. they live in dogana and faetano, respectively. when the applicants lodged their applications they were serving their prison sentences in san marino. on 27 september 2011 parliament gave the commission the specific task of investigating the existence of any collusion between politicians and company f., a fiduciary company which had been traced back to b. (a notary and lawyer by profession). the commission produced a report, chapter two of which was devoted entirely to criminal collusion between company f. and various officials. the first and second applicants were charged in respect of events up to 1 january 2010. the applicants were sentenced to five years and six months’ imprisonment, a four‑year prohibition on holding public office and exercising political rights, and a fine of 25,000 euros (eur). the judge held that the offence had to be classified as direct bribery (corruzione propria) under article 373 § 1 of the criminal code as the applicants had been exercising discretionary powers arising from their office while carrying out the criminal acts. the fact therefore that the applicants had agreed to refrain from exercising their discretionary powers or to do so in an aberrant way in exchange for money constituted direct bribery. as to the penalty, the judge stated, in general terms, that he had calculated it on the basis of parameters such as the number of acts of bribery, the type of acts which had been the subject of the bribery, the role of each accused person and the time‑frame in which they had carried out the criminal act. on 13 february 2015, the applicants appealed. they complained, inter alia, that before the passing of law no. however, they had been accused of bribery inducing omission in relation to facts which had arisen before the law had come into force. by a judgment filed in the registry on 12 january 2016 the judge of criminal appeals (giudice d’appello penale) upheld the first‑instance judgment in the part relating to the applicants, but reduced the sentence to five years’ imprisonment, a four‑and‑a‑half‑year prohibition on holding public office and exercising political rights, and a fine of eur 20,000. it was noted that the bank account deposits made by the first and second applicants indirectly indicated their guilt. the only crime at issue was bribery resulting from the pact struck (patto corruttivo) between b. and the applicants. such favouritism had had specific corresponding rewards according to comparative tables adjusted for the purpose. the prolonged nature of the act in question had had various consequences: (i) third persons who had not been involved in the original pact had nevertheless become accomplices in the offence of bribery; (ii) limitation periods had to start running from the date of the last payment involving the accused and (iii) as in the case of continuing offences, an amendment to the relevant law during the period of the crime had to be applied also to the continuing offence of bribery of which the applicants had been accused. according to the judge of criminal appeals, the amended article 373, which expressly provided for the crime of direct bribery to include the promise of an omission or payment for a past omission, did not create a new crime but amounted solely to a more serious legal classification of acts which already constituted a crime. the change in the law was therefore irrelevant in the applicants’ case.
the applicants, petra wunderlich, who was born in 1967, and dirk wunderlich, who was born in 1966, are married to each other. the applicants are the parents of four children: m. (born in july 1999), j. (born in september 2000), h. (born in april 2002) and s. (born in september 2005). the applicants reject the state school system and compulsory school attendance and wish to homeschool their children themselves. in 2005 their oldest daughter, m., reached school age. the applicants refused to register her in a school. the applicants accepted these decisions and paid the fines, but did not change their behaviour. between 2008 and 2011 the applicants lived with their children abroad. it considered that the persistent refusal of the applicants endangered the best interests of the children. in its reasoning the court stated that the parents’ persistent refusal to send their children to a state school or a recognised grant-aided independent school not only violated section 67 of the hesse school act (hessisches schulgesetz) (see paragraph 31 below) but also represented an abuse of parental authority which risked damaging the children’s best interests in the long term. lastly, the court concluded that no less severe measures were available. the applicants appealed against that decision. in a letter dated 15 november 2012 the youth office informed the applicants that it intended to assess the children’s knowledge on 22 november 2012 and asked the applicants to have their children ready to be collected on that day. at the same time the parents were informed that the appointment of 19 december 2012 had been cancelled, but the appointment of 17 january 2013 still stood. however, staff of the education authority were not allowed to enter the family home when they arrived for the appointment in january 2013. in particular, a withdrawal of parental authority could not be justified to enable children to receive the best possible education but only to prevent any endangerment of children. the education they were receiving from the applicants could not compensate for not attending school. on 15 august 2014, in parallel proceedings, the frankfurt am main court of appeal transferred the right to determine the children’s place of residence back to the applicants. the court held that, as pointed out in its decision of 25 april 2013 (see paragraph 15 above), the applicants’ persistent refusal to send their children to school constituted child endangerment and that neither their temporary schooling nor the learning assessment of the children had changed that conclusion. according to the information gathered since the removal of the children by the youth office, any risk to their physical integrity emanating from the applicants could now be excluded. moreover, the learning assessment had showed that the knowledge level of the children was not alarming and that the children were not being kept from school against their will.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s grandfather owned part of a real estate. he donated his part to the applicant’s cousins in 1997. the applicant’s grandfather died on 16 january 2003. on 13 february 2004 the applicant brought proceedings under section 30 of the inheritance act 1949 before the sofia district court. she claimed that, by donating his part in the immovable property in 1997, her grandfather had infringed her right to a “reserved share” in his inheritance, given that the immovable property in question represented his entire estate. in a decision of 2 march 2005 the court upheld her claim by diminishing the part of the estate donated to the applicant’s cousins and restoring the applicant’s “reserved share” in her grandfather’s inheritance. following an appeal by the other party, on 20 september 2007 the sofia city court quashed the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim for restoration of her “reserved share” in her grandfather’s estate. in particular, referring to interpretative decision no. 1 of 4 february 2005 by the supreme court of cassation (“scc”), the court found that the applicant had not complied with the statutory requirements for claiming her reserved share. the court held that, given that her cousins to whom the real estate had been donated could not be considered “heirs-at-law”, the applicant should have claimed the reserved share of the inheritance by means of an “inventory”. following a cassation appeal brought by the applicant, on 24 march 2009 the scc upheld the sofia city court’s findings in full in a final decision.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in baku. the applicant worked as an investigative journalist since 2005. in particular, on 3 may 2012 she published an article on the above-mentioned mining consortium. the investigation was formally launched on 15 march 2012 (see section c below). the same article was published in the newspaper i̇ki sahil on 15 march 2012. müsavat is a political opposition party, which indicated that it had nothing to do with the website and condemned the posting of the video. the article spoke about a number of scandals in which various opposition politicians had been involved. while the investigation in connection with the threatening letter and the posting of the first video was under way (see below), in july 2013 another video of the applicant and her then boyfriend filmed in the applicant’s bedroom was posted on “ictimaipalatka.com”. as noted above, on 9 march 2012 the applicant reported the threatening letter received on 7 march 2012 to the ministry of internal affairs and the prosecutor general’s office, complaining that it was blackmail in connection with her journalistic activity, and asking the prosecution authorities to ensure her safety, to investigate the matter, and to hold those responsible for the threat and the video accountable. and his assistant, to be present during the meeting. according to the applicant, despite her objections, he did not include mr n.j. ’s statements in the investigation case file and did not mention in the investigation record that there had been a meeting with mr n.j. ’s questioning or any further decisions by the prosecuting authorities taken in this regard. no further documents concerning the investigative steps taken have been made available to the court by the parties. the content of the status report and the proceedings relating to it are described in section d below. according to the applicant, she wrote a letter dated 28 november 2012 asking for copies of those decisions, since she had not received them. on 18 september 2013 the applicant lodged a third complaint with the sabail district court under the judicial supervision procedure, which was again rejected by that court on 30 september 2013, and by the baku court of appeal on 17 october 2013. on 21 june 2012 the applicant lodged a civil claim with the sabail district court against the prosecutor general’s office, the baku city prosecutor’s office, mr n.a. ( by a judgment of 27 july 2012 the sabail district court dismissed the applicant’s claims, finding that the purpose of the status report had been to counter the possibility of the public forming a negative opinion about the investigating authorities as a result of the applicant’s public complaints that the investigation was ineffective. she was released from prison on the same day.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vrbovec. it also asked that he be placed in a psychiatric hospital in accordance with the protection of individuals with mental disorders act. he was detained on 30 november 2013 and on 2 december 2013 he was placed in the zagreb prison hospital for treatment. the court also decided that he would remain detained until the judgment became final. on 23 january 2014 the velika gorica county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the decision to detain him until the judgment became final. took part in this decision as a member of a three‑judge panel. after the criminal court’s judgment became final, on 19 march 2014 the file was forwarded to the zagreb county court (hereinafter “the county court”) as the court with competence to rule on the applicant’s involuntary placement in a psychiatric hospital under the protection of individuals with mental disorders act (see paragraphs 34 and 36 below). the applicant’s lawyer in the criminal proceedings. on the same day the county court opened the proceedings for the applicant’s committal to a psychiatric hospital. on 28 july 2014 the hospital asked the county court to extend the applicant’s involuntary psychiatric confinement on the grounds that the treatment had started to show positive results but had been short, so further treatment was needed. on 30 july 2014 the judge conducting the proceedings visited the applicant in the hospital. there is no indication that she asked any questions or otherwise addressed the applicant or the judge during the meeting. on 7 august 2014 the county court ordered an expert report from s.h., was of the opinion that short-term therapeutic leave from the hospital could be granted. he stressed that all his previous attempts to contact the hospital had been to no avail. this letter appears to have only been received by the county court on 18 december 2014. at the same time, the county court granted the applicant therapeutic leave for the period between 28 and 31 august 2014. the applicant’s father, on behalf of the applicant, challenged the decision on his son’s further involuntary hospitalisation before a three-judge panel of the county court. on 19 december 2014 a three-judge panel of zagreb county court dismissed the appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that a lawyer had been duly appointed to represent the applicant in the proceedings concerning his involuntary hospitalisation. in the meantime, on 22 may 2015 the applicant, through his chosen representative f.ž.,
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in the ventspils district. on 6 december 2001 the applicant was convicted of kidnapping, aggravated murder and aggravated extortion and sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment. this judgment was upheld at two levels of appeal and took effect in 2002. on an unspecified date the applicant was transferred to the medium‑security level of that closed prison. according to the applicant, in 2008 he realised that there was a difference in the respective treatment of male and female inmates with regard to the execution of custodial sentences. male inmates who had been convicted of serious crimes started serving their sentences in closed prisons, while female inmates who had been convicted of the same crimes started serving their sentence in partly-closed prisons. on 30 september 2008 the applicant was informed that his father had died. in the years 2012-2015 the applicant was granted one prison‑leave day per year. it followed that the persons placed in those prisons were particularly dangerous to the society. hence, the restriction imposed on the applicant was proportionate and necessary in a democratic society. on 9 july 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, arguing that section 504(1) of the sentence enforcement code was discriminatory on the grounds of sex, in breach of article 91 of the constitution. in particular, the applicant had failed to specify why the difference in treatment between men and women should not be acceptable. on 7 august 2008 the applicant lodged a second constitutional complaint, adding that men and women who were convicted of serious and especially serious crimes were in the same circumstances in that they were both imprisoned. on 5 september 2008 the constitutional court again declined to institute proceedings. with respect to the first sentence of article 91 of the constitution, which addressed the principle of equality, the constitutional court pointed out that the following criteria had to be examined – the existence of comparable groups, a difference in treatment between those groups, and a lack of objective and reasonable justification for that difference in treatment. as the legal reasoning advanced by the applicant was based on the assumption that men and women who had committed similarly grave crimes were in comparable situations, the constitutional court considered this reasoning evidently insufficient for the claim to be allowed. thus, in relation to this part of the application, legal reasoning had not been provided (nav sniegts juridiskais pamatojums) and the formal requirements of a constitutional complaint had not been met. in so far as relevant, the constitutional court relied on sections 20(5)(3) and 20(6) of the law on the constitutional court. in a third constitutional complaint of 20 october 2008, the applicant added that on 2 october 2008 he had been refused permission to leave prison to attend his father’s funeral. on 21 november 2008 the constitutional court declined to institute proceedings, invoking section 20(6) of the law on the constitutional court.
the applicant, mr fabian gjini, a croatian citizen of albanian origin, was born in 1972 and lives in crikvenica, croatia. according to the applicant, his cellmates thought that he was an informer. the situation worsened after the applicant’s cellmates found out about his origin. after he said that he did not know any, they taught him some and forced him to sing them for several nights. one day the cellmates gave him a glass of water. the applicant remembered that the prison guards laughed at him openly during his walks in the prison yard. he also had impression that everything that happened to him was because of his origin and nationality. after his relocation, the applicant was no longer ill-treated. they did not provide a separate description of the events from 22 august 2008 until 22 september 2008 when the applicant was detained in sremska mitrovica prison. on 1 september 2009, the applicant amended his proposal, adding a request for compensation for the ill-treatment he had suffered during the period of detention. on 15 june 2010 a hearing was held before the court of first instance. the applicant was represented by his lawyer. however, owing to the nature of the applicant’s complaints, the domestic court decided that the applicant had to be present at hearings. confirmed that shaved eyebrows in prison meant that the person had been raped. the guards knew what shaved eyebrows meant. noticed that the applicant had been shaved and his eyebrows had also been shaved. asked the applicant whether there was any problem, but the applicant could not give him a clear answer. urged the prison authorities to transfer the applicant to another cell. this witness remembered the applicant, but was not exactly sure what had happened to him during his time in the prison. given that such an evaluation was not carried out in this particular case, the findings of the first-instance court that it had not been proved that the claimant had been ill-treated and molested by other cellmates during his time in detention – causing him to sustain different types of non-pecuniary loss for which the [state] could be held responsible as defined in article 172 of the obligations act (zakon o obligacionim odnosima) – cannot be accepted with any certainty.”
the applicant was born in 1968 and was detained in lpu-3, chelyabinsk. on 28 september 2007 the applicant arrived at medical detention facility no. he entered the corridor, turned to face the wall and took up a spread-eagle position leaning against the wall. at the same time another warder started kicking and hitting the applicant on the back and head. on the same date the applicant was examined by a prison doctor. on 5 october 2007 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant on suspicion of assault on a warder and disruption of order in the detention facility. the prosecution’s case was that on 2 october 2007 the applicant had refused to be subjected to a body search and had waved his hands to prevent the search. warder b. had warned the applicant about the intention to use force should he fail to comply with the order. on 2 september 2008 the chelyabinsk regional court, by a jury verdict, acquitted the applicant. having established that he had hit warder l. once and had split his lip, the jury nevertheless concluded that the applicant had caused the injury in an attempt to protect himself. the investigators had questioned the warders b. and l. mentioned in the acquittal judgment of 2 september 2008, who had testified that they had indeed administered up to six truncheon blows to the applicant’s buttocks because he had refused to go through a body search and had hit warder l. in the face. on 19 november 2012 the investigation was suspended again for failure to identify the alleged perpetrators. therefore, the use of rubber truncheons had been justified. on 28 february 2014 the criminal proceedings against the warders were terminated. on 9 april 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court quashed that decision on appeal and remitted the case for re-examination. on 9 november 2012 the metallurgicheskiy district court of chelyabinsk discontinued the proceedings on the applicant’s claim. it ordered that the violations found be remedied. he also sought apologies from the implicated officials. on 11 august 2011 the tsentralnyy district court of chelyabinsk awarded the applicant 15,000 russian roubles (rub) (353 euros (eur)) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage and dismissed the remaining claims. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is now serving his sentence in a detention facility at nizhniy tagil. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. a gazel prison van was available for transfer. it was designed to transport a maximum of seven prisoners, but police major v., who was in charge of the transfer, took the decision to take all nine prisoners at once to save fuel. the prison van was manned by four officers. driver g. and major v. were seated in the front, and officers k. and d. were riding in the rear part of the cabin next to the prisoner cells. five prisoners were placed in the large cell in the van, and three prisoners in individual cells. approximately half way to the destination, prisoners sa., kicked out the door of the large cell and attacked the convoy officers. overpowered officer d. and seized his holster containing a handgun. meanwhile, officer k. pushed prisoner ma. aside, drew his gun and told everyone to freeze or he would shoot. were still struggling with officer d. for the gun. the applicant was taken to a local military hospital where his wounded leg was put in a cast. on the following day he was discharged and transferred to a prison hospital. he found no indications of gross negligence arising from the decision to transport two prisoners in excess of the van’s design capacity and that not putting the applicant in a cell had been motivated by “considerations of budgetary austerity and saving money allocated for the purchase of fuel”. on 20 july 2015 the supreme court of the bashkortostan republic rejected an appeal against the district court’s judgment. on 5 may 2016 the supervising deputy prosecutor of the bashkortostan republic set the decision aside and ordered a forensic assessment of the applicant’s injury. on 6 june 2016 the investigator with the central investigations department in ufa again refused to institute criminal proceedings, noting that the applicant’s medical record could not be located. convoy officers k., d. and v. had been given the status of injured parties in those proceedings.
details concerning the applicants can be found in the appendix. the first applicant owns one seventh undivided share thereof. on 31 march 1962 for a period of seventeen years at a yearly ground rent of 45 maltese liras (mtl), approximately 105 euro (eur). the rent under the new lease regime was mtl 86.54, approximately eur 200 annually. on 9 april 1986 the property was requisitioned by the state and c.c. he handed in the keys to the housing department on 29 september 1986. the occupants thus started paying rent directly to the housing department. the owners informed the authorities of this but no action was taken. rent continued to be paid on the terms mentioned above. the owners complained to the ombudsman who, on 29 october 2003, considered that the authorities had not given sufficient attention to the owners’ complaints. the owners refused the offer which they considered was too low compared to the rental value of the property and the long number of years during which it had been occupied by third parties. it found a violation of article 1 of protocol no. it also awarded eur 7,535 in compensation, with costs against the government. indeed the award of eur 7,535 reflected the sums that the owners would have been entitled to as rent for the premises according to the provisions of chapter 158 of the laws of malta, and thus it was not an award in compensation for the violation of their property rights, nor did it reflect an award for the occupation of the premises at undervalued rents. bearing in mind the social aim pursued by the measure and the fact that the rent paid had been in accordance with the law, as well as the fact that the measure persisted for twenty-four years during which the owners received a low rent compared to its market value, it awarded non-pecuniary damage of eur 5,000 to be added to the pecuniary damage already awarded. thus, in total it awarded compensation of eur 12,535 covering both pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage, without prejudice to any claims the owners may have for material damage caused to the property, and it ordered that the costs of the proceedings at both instances be split equally between the contending parties. predecessor of the second and third applicant, died. the applicants claimed that the property was not habitable and the works started by l.l. according to an architect’s valuation dated 19 august 2014, the property was abandoned halfway through a refurbishment project, leaving it in an uninhabitable and unfinished state, with visible damage, most pertinently as a result of severe water penetration. the estimated rental value of the property (in an unspecified state) in 2014 was eur 665 a month (eur 7,980 a year).
the applicants were both born in 1968 and live in marsalforn and naxxar, respectively. the property was allocated to mr and ms a. at the request of the housing authority, on 26 march 1997, the emphyteutical grant in favour of mr and ms e. was transferred to mr and ms a. 9. the contract of emphyteusis expired in 2007. due to this refusal the rent was to be deposited with the court registry. on 9 march 2009 the applicants filed proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence. 1 to the convention, were being violated because they had not received adequate compensation for the forced occupation of their property and because the authorities had failed to properly look after the property after taking possession of it. on 26 march 2013 the court decided in favour of the applicants. the costs of the proceedings were to be paid by the housing authority and mr and mrs a. 13. it confirmed that the requisition order constituted an interference with the applicants’ property and amounted to a violation of the applicants’ rights under article 1 of protocol no. one‑fifth of the costs of the appeal were to be borne by the applicants. the deterioration of the property also caused damage to the owners as substantial costs would have to be incurred in order to carry out repairs. in the light of these circumstances, the constitutional court considered that the requisition order was putting a disproportionate and excessive burden on the applicants, who, moreover, were precluded from taking judicial action before the ordinary courts against mr and ms a., with the aim of protecting their interests. this was even more so given that the housing authority did nothing, and did not appear to have the will to do anything, to remedy the damage done to the property. nevertheless the court considered that mr and ms a., could still be protected through the lease agreement. as to redress, the constitutional court observed that the first‑instance court had awarded compensation in the light of the court‑appointed architect’s valuations of the property and the expenses required to rehabilitate the property. once the requisition order was annulled (by means of a judicial review procedure), the applicants had other remedies to deal with both the eviction of mr and ms a. and the award of material damages before the ordinary courts. on 5 august 2014 the housing authority derequisitioned the property of the applicants. however, up to the date of the lodging of the application, the property still had not been returned to the applicants. according to the applicants, the housing authority failed to reply. the authorities refused to co-operate and informed the applicants that if they wished they could draw up a report at their own expense.
the applicant, who was born in 1972, lives in i̇zmir. on 29 november 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 3 december 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the risk of absconding. on 7 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation. on 14 march 2006 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. the court ordered the continuation of his detention. on 24 january 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds. the case was accordingly remitted to the istanbul assize court. on 19 july 2007 the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 25 july 2007 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 19 july 2007. on 7 august 2007 the 11th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 6 november 2007 the istanbul assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment and ordered his release. on 30 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld this decision.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in chișinău. on 18 september 2015 the applicant came to work at around 7.40 a.m. and started counting money in bags of cash. she did not pay much attention to that, since that was not the first time when a seal was missing. it appeared that forty-seven thousand euros (eur) was missing from that bag. another superior was called in and a search of the premises was carried out. the branch from which the bag of money came was contacted; however, its employees stressed that the bag had been sealed upon its dispatch. later, the applicant went again to the toilet and then left for lunch. on 2 october 2015 a search was carried out at the applicant’s home but nothing of interest for the investigation was found. on the same day, the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. on 5 october 2015 the applicant was charged with the offence of theft in the amount of eur 47,000. on the same date, namely on 5 october 2015, the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to the buiucani district court for the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days. nevertheless, the court noted that during the hearing the prosecutor had indicated that the other co-accused had stated that the money could have been stolen by the applicant because she had taken bags from the stack of bags in which the unsealed bag had been found and she had had a suspicious behaviour. the court concluded that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed an offence. the court noted that some thirteen days had elapsed since the day of the theft. the applicant had a permanent abode, a job, family and no criminal record. there were no reasons to believe that she would hinder the investigation in circumstances in which her involvement in the offence was unclear. on 15 october 2015 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the appeal lodged by the prosecutor. the court considered that there was a risk of absconding, interference with the investigation and collusion with the other co-accused persons. the court observed that unjustified manifestations of clemency would encourage anti‑social behaviour of the sort and would affect the peoples’ trust in the law enforcement organs and that the measure of pre-trial detention was called to punish and discourage anti-social behaviour. as to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence imputed to her, the court noted that the applicant had not contested its presence.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in lipetsk. on 18 september 2007 the applicant signed a private contract for the purchase of a flat in lipetsk. acting on behalf of herself and her daughter maria, a minor. the contract stipulated that the property was not “mortgaged, encumbered by any claims of third parties, disputed or charged”. the flat in question had been allocated as social housing to ms e.m.t. they had lived there with their four children: yelena, mikhail, dmitriy and maria. mikhail and dmitriy were given long prison sentences in 1998 and 2004 respectively and were still serving them at the material time. yelena moved out in 1997 to continue her studies in dagestan. in 2006, ms e.m.t and maria became the sole owners of the property by way of privatisation, while mr v.a.v., mikhail, dmitry and yelena declined in writing to exercise their right to obtain their shares of the privatised flat. delayed submitting the contract for state registration, the applicant sought a court order upholding her full title to the property. she submitted that she was unable to move out because the purchase of the new flat for herself and her daughter maria had not yet been finalised. failed to appear in court, on 2 april 2008 the oktyabrskiy district court in lipetsk struck out the counterclaim and granted the applicant relief in the form of an order compelling state registration of her full title to the property. on 12 november 2008 the title was registered. the applicant then sued the former owner ms e.m.t. and members of her family, seeking termination of their right to use the flat, annulment of the registration of their residence at that address, and their eviction. on 7 april 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court allowed her claim in part. and maria, as they were no longer owners of the property, but dismissed the claim in respect of yelena, mikhail and dmitriy on the following grounds:
“according to the parties, the contested property contains personal belongings and chattels of the defendants [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena]; it appears from their written statements that, in declining their shares of the contested property during its privatisation, they did not intend to stop using the flat. since there was no arrangement between the owner of the contested property and the defendants regarding the discontinuation of the right to use the property, the court considers that [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena] had a right of use over the flat which was identical [in its scope] to that of the owner; accordingly, there are no legal grounds for allowing [the applicant’s] claim to declare their right of use over the flat terminated. on 27 may 2009 the lipetsk regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the district court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in chișinău. the applicant has been involved in numerous protests against alleged acts of corruption and abuse committed by police officers, prosecutors and judges. each year during the professional holiday of the prosecutors or the police he stages protests involving live animals, toilets, caricatures and masks. according to him, the aim of the protest was to draw public attention to the corruption and the control exercised by politicians over the prosecutor general’s office. the first sculpture represented an erect penis with a picture of the face of a high-ranking politician attached to its head. the sculpture had a white collar and a tie and measured two metres. the demonstration was observed from the beginning by several police officers and numerous journalists approached to interview the applicant. at 11 a.m. a police van approached, the sculptures were removed by police officers and the applicant was taken to a police station. later the applicant was charged with the criminal offence of hooliganism. the criminal investigation was conducted by a department of the prosecutor general’s office whose head’s picture had been attached to the sculpture of the vulva. on 2 march 2015 the râșcani district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. the sentence was suspended for a period of three years. in deciding on the sanction to be applied, the court took into consideration the fact that the applicant had previously been sanctioned with fines for similar deeds and that those sanctions had proved to be inefficient. the court based its findings on the statements of several prosecution witnesses who had stated that they had disliked the sculptures exposed by the applicant and had considered them to be indecent and obscene. moreover, the accusations meant to be made by the applicant by means of his protest against the officials concerned lacked a factual basis and had been contrary to the principle of presumption of innocence. in any event, at the time of his protest, children were normally at schools and kindergartens. the fact that some of the prosecution witnesses disliked what they saw was not sufficient to hold him responsible for a criminal offence. by the application of a suspended sentence, he had in fact been forced to abstain from organising further protests for a period of three years or risk being imprisoned. on 20 april 2016 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgments of the lower courts. the decision was notified to the applicant on 19 may 2016.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in bogdany. this amounted to the official registration of her title to the land in accordance with the domestic procedures. at that point the applicant had not filed a request for the boundaries of the plot to be marked out and was not farming the land. on 26 july 2004 the local administration concluded a lease agreement with the private company b., according to which the company would rent the applicant’s land and pay the rent to the local administration. the applicant was not informed about this agreement. she learnt of the lease agreement only in september 2004, after the private company b. had planted seeds on the land. on 4 october 2004 the applicant requested the local administration to allow her to establish the boundaries of her land. in this connection, on 19 october 2004, the local administration ordered the termination of the lease agreement with company b. and authorised the applicant to carry out work to mark out of the boundaries of her land. in july 2005 the company removed its crop from the applicant’s land. on 25 july 2005 amendments were introduced to the lease agreement of 26 july 2004, excluding the applicant’s plot of land from the list of leased lands. from then on the applicant’s land ceased to be a leased property, and company b. has not used it since. in the same month the boundaries of the applicant’s land were established. on 2 june 2006 the varva local court of chernigiv region allowed the applicant’s claim. it also noted that despite the fact that the boundaries had not been marked out, the local administration should have learned about the applicant’s title to the land in question from the land registry and local land plans. the court concluded that the lease agreement of 26 july 2004 had violated the applicant’s property rights and was to be declared invalid. the compensation, in the court’s view, should have been paid to the applicant both by the local administration and by company b., as they were jointly and severally liable for the unauthorised use of the applicant’s land. on 12 september 2006 the chernigiv regional court of appeal quashed the above-mentioned judgment. the appellate court concluded that the applicant was not entitled to compensation as the boundaries of her land had been marked out only in july 2005; as she could not have used the land before that date, she could not claim an interest in the harvested crop. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged another civil claim against company b., claiming the value of the land that had been used by b., as well as rental charges for the use of her land. on 7 june 2006 the varva local court of chernigiv region left this claim unexamined because of the applicant’s attitude, citing the fact that she had been absent from the court hearings in her case on numerous occasions without good reason.
the applicant, is a company specialising in air transportation. at the time of the events it had a valid air operator certificate (an “aoc”) issued by the moldovan civil aviation state authority (the “casa”). on 1 june 2007 the casa issued an order banning all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007. between 4 and 8 june 2007, all moldovan aviation companies were subjected to a check by the european union safety committee. as a result, some irregularities concerning compliance with the european norms in the field of aviation safety were detected. one of the conclusions set down in the visit report drawn up by the european union safety committee was that the casa failed to demonstrate the ability adequately to enforce and implement the relevant safety standards. according to the report, the casa had undertaken to remedy the situation within three months. on 18 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant company aviation instruction no. the corresponding plan was sent by the applicant company to the casa on 21 june 2007. 2585 requesting it to undertake measures with a view to remedying some of the irregularities before 20 july 2007 and other irregularities before 20 september 2007. on 21 june 2007 the casa issued order no. 102/gen withdrawing the applicant company’s aoc, and thereby terminating its activity. the casa relied on the fact that the applicant company flew to destinations such as iraq, afghanistan, congo, sudan, sierra leone, kosovo, new zealand and united arab emirates. the casa argued that those destinations involved security risks and that it had no resources to ensure flight security in those territories. it also made reference to section rac‑aoc 0170 from the regulations in the field of civil aviation according to which an aoc could be revoked only after being initially suspended. since the casa had not observed those legal provisions, its actions were unlawful. on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant company’s action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw its aoc because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found by european experts, and because those irregularities had not been remedied. the court of appeal did not indicate the irregularities to which it referred. the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice. on 29 april 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal after finding that the casa was entitled to revoke the aoc since the applicant company had failed to comply with its instructions concerning the ban on all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007.
on 4 september 2000 the president of russia appointed ms g. to the office of judge of the syktyvkar town court for a period of three years. on 21 may 2004 the state council of the komi republic appointed ms g. to the office of justice of the peace of lesozavodskiy judicial district of syktyvkar for three years. on 16 january 2008 the judicial qualifications board granted ms g.’s application for resignation and terminated her judicial status effective as of 1 april 2008. according to the government, ms g. served as justice of the peace until 8 february 2010. on 4 and 22 june and 6 july 2010 justice of the peace g. found the applicant guilty on seven counts of road traffic offences and sentenced him to administrative detention and a fine. on an unspecified date the applicant appealed against the five judgments of 4 june 2010, arguing, inter alia, that the justice of the peace who had considered his cases had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws. the district court discerned no irregularities as regards the appointment of ms g. to the office of justice of the peace. on 6 august 2010 the syktyvdinskiy district court upheld the judgments on appeal. on 22 december 1999 the judicial qualifications board granted ms ch. ’s application for resignation and terminated her judicial status. on 26 august 2010 the president of the supreme court of the komi republic appointed ms ch. as acting justice of the peace in vylgort for a period of up to one year. delivered two judgments, finding the applicant in violation of road traffic rules and sentenced him to administrative detention. the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that ms ch. had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws. the court discerned no irregularity as regards ms ch. ’s appointment to the office of justice of the peace. on 7 october 2010 justice of the peace ch. against the applicant and reduced the amount of monthly maintenance yu. had to pay as child support for the parties’ minor daughter.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in batumi. in batumi on suspicion of possession of illegal drugs, by members of the special operations unit (სოდის სამმართველო) of the ministry of internal affairs (“the mia”). according to the report of his detention and personal search, he physically resisted the arrest. as a result he sustained injuries to his face and both legs when being forced out of his car and on to the ground. the applicant signed this report without making any written comments. at 5:35 p.m. on the same day the applicant underwent an external visual examination at the batumi no. soon afterwards an ambulance was called for the applicant. he was pre-diagnosed as suffering from possible concussion and was recommended for a transfer to a medical establishment. an hour later an ambulance was called again. after a brain tomography examination and other medical check-ups the diagnosis of a head injury was not confirmed. he was diagnosed instead with a fracture of the maxillary sinus on the right side, multiple bruises, and excoriations on his face and body. he was then taken back to the temporary detention centre. on the same date the investigator dealing with the case ordered a forensic examination of the applicant. he maintained his allegations of ill treatment, claiming that he had been beaten during the arrest as well as after he was transferred to the special operations unit at the mia. on 6 september 2008 the investigator questioned two employees of the batumi no. he had not provided any additional details, and had not made any complaints against the arresting police officers. on 17 november 2008 the investigator decided to continue the investigation under article 333 § 1 of the criminal code of georgia (abuse of power). he also noted that he had requested footage from the video surveillance cameras in the street where the arrest operation had taken place, but that his request had received no response. according to the government, at the time they submitted their observations the investigation of the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment was still pending. on 18 march 2009 the batumi city court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to fourteen years and three months’ imprisonment and a fine.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in skopje. at birth the applicant was registered as a girl, with a clearly female name. the applicant submitted that from an early age he became aware that he was male rather than female. a medical certificate dated 20 september 2010 included a recommendation that the applicant pursue hormone treatment with a view to eventual genital reassignment surgery. the applicant started taking hormones to increase his testosterone levels. on 1 june 2011 the applicant applied for a change of his first and family name. soon after, it issued the applicant with a new identity card bearing his new name. sex reassignment surgery was unavailable in the respondent state and unjustified in his case. furthermore, such a requirement would subject him to unwanted medical treatment and sterilisation, in breach of his rights. in a decision of 17 october 2011 the ministry dismissed the appeal, finding that the impugned decision had been based on section 23 of the civil status registration act (закон за матичната евиденција) (“the act”; under the 2016 amendment this provision became section 22(2) – see paragraph 25 below) and that the evidence produced had not been “sufficient and relevant” in respect of the alteration (промена) sought. in november 2011 the applicant challenged the refusal of the lower administrative authorities to modify his sex/gender marker on the birth certificate before the administrative court. on 28 february 2013 the administrative court quashed the ministry’s decision. in this connection it held that section 23 of the civil status registration act did not specify any requirement to have the sex/gender marker changed; it only contained an instruction to administrative authorities regarding the evidence to be adduced and assessed in such proceedings. on 11 june 2013 the applicant underwent a double mastectomy (breast removal) in belgrade and continued his hormonal therapy. in the resumed proceedings, the registry instructed the forensic institute (институт за судска медицина) to examine the applicant. as reported in the registry’s decision (see paragraph 17 below), on 20 june 2014 the forensic institute drew up a report, which stated: “[o]wing to his mastectomy and on-going hormonal therapy, [the applicant] displays male sexual characteristics which affect his everyday life. the registry also requested that the ministry of health specify the nature of the certificate and the authority competent to attest to the change of the applicant’s sex. in reply, the ministry of health stated that the sex alteration procedure was not specified in health-related regulations and suggested that evidence regarding prior medical intervention in respect of the applicant should be taken into consideration. the applicant appealed against that decision. the proceedings before the administrative court are underway.
the applicant was born in 1987 and was detained in prison in rustavi at the material time. he claimed that he could identify both of them. on the next day, the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the armed robbery of the taxi driver. neither a body search of the applicant nor a search of his apartment revealed any unlawful items. on the same date an identity parade was held, during which the taxi driver identified the applicant as one of his assailants. on 7 december 2007 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the investigator in charge of the case requesting that he question twelve persons who could confirm the applicant’s alibi. by a decision of 9 december 2007 the investigator rejected the request as unsubstantiated. as for the remaining potential witnesses, according to the investigator, they had not been with the applicant at the time of commission of the offence in question. the rejection of the applicant’s request was confirmed on appeal by a supervising prosecutor. her request was granted and the hearing was re-scheduled for 6 may 2008. she noted that the applicant’s alibi should have been verified and she requested, in that connection, on the basis of article 468 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), that seven witnesses be questioned. in reply, the lawyer noted that she had only been instructed in the case on 29 april 2008 and accordingly could not have filed any requests beforehand. on 22 may 2008 the tbilisi city court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant’s conviction was based on the evidence given in court by the taxi driver, the investigator in charge of the case, the results of the identity parade and the results of two forensic examinations. the report stated that both fibres had a similar nature, colour, colour tonality, fibre structure and type of dye. the applicant appealed against his conviction. he reiterated his request for the examination of the witnesses. on 15 july 2008 the appeal proceedings started. none of the defence witnesses was questioned during the appeal proceedings. he claimed in that connection that he had been put in a disadvantageous position vis-à-vis the prosecution and had been prevented from proving his innocence.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. a copy of the criminal file submitted by the government lacked one volume, the one covering the investigation between mid-2004 and early 2012. it appears that the proceedings are still pending. on the same day two rovd officers, mr d. yasayev and mr i. makayev, confirmed that mr askhab soltagirayev had been detained there until at least 2 p.m. and then taken to the premises of a department of the federal security service. the second applicant was informed of that decision. on 13 february 2008 the first applicant asked the investigators to grant her victim status in the case. the first applicant is the mother of mr timur tsakayev, who was born in 1976. the replies received were in the negative. on 5 december 2003 the investigation was suspended after it had failed to establish the identity of the perpetrators. thereafter, the men forced mr bachakov into one of the uaz vehicles and drove off to an unknown destination. on 7 october 2010 the proceedings were resumed. on 28 october 2010 the investigators obtained a sample of the first applicant’s dna for comparison with dna taken from unidentified remains; the results of that comparison remain unknown. on 6 june 2009 the investigators resumed the proceedings and sent a number of requests to various authorities, including law-enforcement bodies, concerning mr movsarov’s whereabouts, but no positive replies were received. on 11 april 2002 mr adlan moltayev’s relatives informed the authorities of his abduction. on 30 april 2009 the investigators suspended the proceedings and on 3 march 2010 resumed them. between midnight and 1.15 a.m. on that date they made a forced entry into the applicants’ houses, arrested mr bashkuyev and mr arsayev, put them into the military vehicles, and drove off to an unknown destination. between july and august 2007 the investigators sent a number of requests to law-enforcement authorities asking whether mr bashkuyev and mr arsayev had been suspected of criminal activities and arrested on that account. subsequently, the proceedings were suspended on 27 january 2011, 10 september 2012 and 28 november 2013, and resumed on 30 august 2012 and 28 october 2013. by a letter of 6 march 2017 the investigators informed the applicants that the proceedings had been suspended but that operational search measures to establish the identity of the perpetrators continued.
the first applicant was born in 1973 and lives in horná kráľová. the second applicant was born in 1980 and lives in nitra. on 14 march 2014 a judge of the nitra district court remanded the applicants in detention pending trial on the charge of continuous criminal offence of insurance fraud. this followed their arrest on 11 march 2014. with respect to the first applicant, the district court decided that there were reasons to suspect that he would influence witnesses, reoffend and continue to make illegal financial gains. with respect to the second applicant, the district court concluded that there was a reason to suspect that he would interfere with witnesses and his co-accused to influence the evidence they would give. on 21 march 2014 both applicants lodged an interlocutory appeal, arguing that no specific factual elements had been relied on in the district court’s decision to justify their pre-trial detention. on 1 april 2014 the nitra regional court dismissed the applicants’ interlocutory appeals, referring to the findings of the district court. on 24 april 2014 the applicants lodged a constitutional complaint alleging that the decisions on their detention lacked specific reasons justifying their pre-trial detention. they each requested just satisfaction of 5,000 euros (eur). the constitutional court joined their complaints and on 24 september 2014 found a violation of their rights under article 5 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention. it quashed the relevant part of the decision of the regional court and awarded each of the applicants eur 1,000 as just satisfaction in addition to their legal costs and expenses in the amount of eur 284. the constitutional court noted that where the ordinary courts used only formal and standard phrases in their decisions on detention (as was the case with the applicants), suspicion arose as to whether they had looked properly at the specific circumstances at hand. it concluded that even though the ordinary courts had referred to some specific facts, which allegedly justified the applicants’ detention, they had failed to explain them in their decisions. furthermore, the regional court had not dealt with some of the applicants’ core arguments and thus had not remedied the shortcomings of the district court’s decision. in view of the above, the constitutional court concluded that the applicants’ pre-trial detention had been based on an arbitrary decision lacking proper and sufficient reasoning. in the meantime, on 30 may 2014 the applicants had been released and placed under supervised probation.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in costesti. on 16 july 2008 the ialoveni district court found the applicant guilty of disrespectful conduct towards a police officer and sentenced him to five days’ administrative arrest. on 12 august 2008 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the above‑mentioned judgment and returned the case for a re‑examination on the merits. on 11 february 2009 the ialoveni district court discontinued the proceedings against the applicant as a result of the expiry of the time-limit for applying an administrative sanction. meanwhile, the applicant had already served his sentence. on 13 march 2009 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the judgment of the district court and discontinued the administrative proceedings in respect of the applicant for lack of corpus delicti. the applicant brought an action under law no. 1545 seeking 300,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 18,750 euros (eur)) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 11 may 2011 the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicant’s administrative arrest had been unlawful and thus awarded him mdl 8,000 (equivalent to eur 500) as compensation for the damage caused.
the applicants are fifty russian nationals. their dates of birth and places of residence are listed in appendixes i, ii, iii and iv. they all obtained final court decisions in their favour ordering military units to provide them with housing before their dismissal from military service. in some cases the defendants were subsequently replaced by the housing provision department of the ministry of defense. the judgment in case of mr nazarov has remained unenforced to date. the judgments in favour of other applicants were enforced on the dates listed in the appendixes below. pursuant to the judgment in favour of mr medinskiy (appendix iii) the authorities decided to allocate a flat to the applicant on 6 november 2015. on 21 january 2016 he registered his title to the flat. according to the transfer and acceptance act, the applicant accepted the flat on 13 november 2015. on 25 april 2013 the hosing department of the ministry of defense found that overall size of the applicant’s living premises (see paragraphs 13 and 15 above) exceeded the housing norms for the respective region. in the meantime, the defendant twice applied to the domestic courts with a request for termination of the enforcement proceedings, as the applicant’s name had been removed from the list of persons in need of housing, and there had “no longer been a possibility to enforce the judgment”. there was no evidence that the judgment in the applicant’s favour could no longer be enforced. a “loss of a possibility to enforce” should have been “of an objective nature” and could not be conditional on the circumstances depending on the debtor itself. in 2016 the defendant again requested the court to terminate the enforcement proceedings, the application being lodged this time with a military court. on 21 december 2016 the military court of the moscow garrison granted the request. the applicant was not present at the hearing. the decision specified that he had been duly notified of the date and time of the examination of the case. the proceedings were held in written form. the court also noted his reply in the telephone conversation that he had no longer lived at the address he had provided to the court, as well as his refusal to provide his new address, and rejected the complaint. on 20 july 2017 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to grant leave for the second cassation appeal against the decision of 21 december 2016.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic or in the republic of ingushetia. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. on 27 october 2004 they suspended the investigation for failure to establish the identity of the perpetrators. there is no information about further developments. they confirmed the account of the events as described by the applicants in their submissions to the court. on 23 january 2002 the investigators opened criminal case no. on 21 january 2005 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case. at about 12.30 a.m. on 14 july 2003 mr rustam muradov, his colleague mr v.s. and mr b.g. 61103 under article 126 of the cc (abduction) and granted the first applicant victim status in the proceedings. on 10 march 2010 the proceedings were resumed. the second and third applicants are his sons. on 17 june 2008 the criminal proceedings were resumed and on 18 july 2008 suspended again. on 11 august 2009 the applicants complained of an ineffective investigation to the chechen president and a number of local authorities. on 26 february 2007 the shali district prosecutor opened a separate criminal case under article 161 of the cc (robbery) into the theft of the applicants’ belongings by the abductors. on 25 june 2010 the court left the complaint without consideration because the investigation had been resumed. speaking unaccented russian, the service personnel forced mr mayr-khadzhi gerikhanov and mr kh.g into a uaz minivan parked nearby and drove off in the direction of novyye atagi, where a russian military base was stationed. 36149 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). on 11 january 2005 the investigators questioned mr mayr-khadzhi gerikhanov’s sister, who stated that the commanding officer of the shali district had established that mr mayr-khadzhi gerikhanov’s abductors’ car had had the registration plate a452ax and that it had been seen entering the premises of military regiment no. the applicants submitted that immediately after the abduction they attempted to search for their relatives on their own. on 1 april 2011 the first applicant lodged a civil claim for compensation for non-pecuniary damage caused by the abduction.
the applicants claim to be the owners of the land at issue in the present case. it appears from the documents in the case‑file that the applicants along with two other persons own one third undivided shares of part of that property. a similar letter dated 26 february 1969 was notified to the applicants’ father sometime later. sometime later pc was notified with an offer of compensation in the amount of 4,492 maltese liras (mtl), approximately 10,464 euros (eur) in respect of the six plots of land mentioned above. he refused to accept the amount of compensation. however, parts of the same six plots were not used for this purpose and land b remains unused to date. according to the government they were not left unused but simply not built, as they were used as a buffer zone for security purposes. by a final judgment of 28 december 2001, the constitutional court found in favour of the applicants and declared the government’s declaration in respect of that land (which was outside the freeport zone) as without effect from the date of the first‑instance judgment, 9 april 1999. as a result of the constitutional court’s judgment, the proceedings before the lab were ceded by the col on 8 april 2003. in particular they argued that the land had not been expropriated for a public purpose, but for a commercial purpose given that the col had transferred the land to the malta freeport corporation and in 1989 with the introduction of the freeport act, the land became part of the freeport. the freeport was eventually privatised in 2001 and sold to an international company in 2004. the parties agreed that they would attempt to find relevant documentation to this effect. according to the conclusions of a technical report drawn up on the matter by a court‑appointed architect in june 2009, land b as shown on the plans which were submitted by the applicants with the application to the civil court (first hall), included a piece of land which pc had already sold to a third party, the remaining parts which were expropriated were the property of the applicants. by a decree of 30 september 2010 the applicants as heirs of their parents who passed away intervened in the proceedings in their stead. by a judgment of 2 october 2013, the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence rejected the government’s objection as to non‑exhaustion of ordinary remedies and found in favour of the applicants in part. it thus declared the governor declaration in that respect to be null and void. both the applicants and the defendants appealed. as to compensation in respect of land a, it considered that the applicants had not raised, before the first‑instance court, a complaint about a lack of proportionality, and thus they could not raise this matter on appeal. it followed that no compensation was due in that respect. however, in such a circumstance the constitutional court considered that it could not give a remedy to the applicants in the absence of proof of their ownership.
the applicant company has its registered office in essingen, germany. from the 1990s onwards the applicant company regularly purchased scrap metal from a. safaryan and associates llc, a limited liability company registered in armenia (“the llc”). 7.2  if it is not possible to settle such disputes amicably, these matters shall, with the exception of those falling within the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts, be referred to the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of the country of the respondent. the purpose of the loan was to assist the llc in paying off a bank loan. it appears that it was not paid back to the applicant company. in subsequent correspondence, the director of the llc acknowledged the debt but deferred its repayment, each time providing different reasons. it also requested a waiver of the court fees. on 15 october 2007 the applicant filed a response to the counterclaim, arguing, inter alia, that the director of the llc had been personally present during the negotiations in germany when a recalculation of liabilities between the companies had been carried out. on 16 november 2007 the commercial court granted the request and decided to leave the applicant company’s claim and the counterclaim lodged by the llc unexamined. it found that, as the contract of 2 april 2003 contained an arbitration clause, the agreement of 28 october 2005 was also subject to arbitration. on 10 december 2007 a three-judge bench of the commercial court rejected the complaint submitted by the applicant company. translations into armenian of extracts of the contracts containing the arbitration clause and copies of the two decisions of the commercial court were enclosed with the letter. in view of the fact that the commercial court had been abolished by that time, on 17 october 2008 the applicant company lodged a claim with the yerevan civil court, seeking to recover eur 116,600 from the llc, representing the amount of the loan and interest. on 12 november 2008 the yerevan civil court accepted the applicant company’s claim for examination and scheduled a preparatory hearing. on 13 march 2009 the district court accepted the case for examination. on 25 june 2009 the applicant company lodged an appeal. having examined them, it had concluded that it had no jurisdiction to determine the dispute. in its reply to the applicant company’s appeal, the llc submitted, inter alia, that the applicant company had failed to provide the arbitration tribunal with copies of the relevant extracts of the contracts that contained the arbitration clause and the relevant decisions of the commercial court. on 21 july 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the decision of 16 june 2009. in doing so, it stated the following:
“... as for the letter of the president of the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of 7 october 2008 concerning non-acceptance of the claim lodged by [the applicant company], it was based on the grounds that [the applicant company] had not submitted the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy, as required by the commercial arbitration act and [the provisions contained therein], in the absence of which arbitration proceedings could not be started.
the applicant was born in 1925 and lives in brighton. in 2005 the applicant began participating in demonstrations organised by smash edo. serious disorder and criminality were features of a number of smash edo protests. smash edo protests therefore attracted a substantial policing presence. in some cases his appearance was also described. permission to seek judicial review was granted in march 2011 (see section b, below). following the judicial review proceedings, the applicant wrote to the police to make a further subject access request. the records themselves should not and will not be disclosed [to you] for what are obvious reasons. an intelligence database loses all efficacy if it is not kept confidential.” of the four additional records, two concerned references to the domestic legal proceedings by third parties. there is no indication of whether there was any police presence or arrests at that event. the government stated that the police could not provide any explanation of why the reports were not disclosed previously. in a witness statement dated 6 june 2011 prepared in the context of the proceedings introduced by the applicant before the high court, the then national coordinator explained the functions of the national public order intelligence unit (npoiu) and the position as regards retention of data relating to the applicant. it is striking that [the national coordinator] does not say that the information held on mr catt over many years has in fact been of any assistance to the police at all. this is very much a live issue given the relatively vague nature of some aspects of the regime contained in the mopi code and guidance and the criticisms voiced by the divisional court in c (paragraph [54]) [see “relevant domestic law and practice”, below] and by the strasbourg court in m.m. he set out the applicable legal framework for collection and retention of data. lord sumption considered the applicant’s argument that the code of practice and the guidance did not enable him to know precisely what data would be obtained and stored or for how long to be unrealistic. while the information stored was personal information because it related to individuals, it was in no sense intimate or sensitive information. as to the suggestion that it would place too great a burden on the police to undertake frequent reviews, lord toulson pointed out that there was no evidence from the police that this would be over-burdensome. while the court should be slow to disagree with the evaluation of the potential usefulness of evidence by the police if a clear reason for it had been advanced, on the facts of this case lord toulson could not see what value they had identified by keeping indefinitely a record of the applicant’s attendances at events where he had done no more than exercise his democratic right of peaceful protest.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in buseck. on 25 february 2005 the court ordered an expert report from h.k., the parties several times exchanged submissions and suggestions regarding the basis for a friendly settlement. informed the parties that another onsite visit was necessary; this finally took place on 22 october 2008. replied to that request by stating that he needed to undergo urgent medical surgery, which he assumed would result in a delay of at least eight weeks. on the same day, the regional court forwarded those suggestions to the parties. on 17 june 2009 the applicant made further submissions and applied for permission to inspect the case file. on 2 july 2009 the applicant’s representative returned the file to the court. on 7 july 2009 the regional court asked for further advance payments on the court fees, which the applicant paid on 3 august 2009. the following four months were dominated by a dispute between g.k., on 10 august 2010 the regional court again asked g.k. invited the parties to participate in another onsite visit, which was scheduled for 28 october 2010. informed the court that the opinion would be provided in the twenty-second calendar week (30 may-5 june 2011). on 8 august 2011 the regional court forwarded the expert opinion to the parties and asked them to submit comments within five weeks. on 5 december 2011 the regional court dismissed the applicant’s objection regarding the method of calculating the fee for the expert opinion. on 11 may 2012 the regional court asked h.k. on 23 july 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the court of appeal in which she sought compensation, alleging that the civil proceedings had been excessively lengthy. lastly, an overall assessment of whether the length of proceedings had been reasonable had to be carried out, with regard being paid to the circumstances of the case – in particular the complexity and difficulty of the proceedings. in application of these principles, the court of appeal assessed all phases of the proceedings and reasoned that the regional court had generally expedited the proceedings sufficiently and that it had caused a delay only in the summer of 2010 because it had failed to sufficiently instruct the expert at the time in question and had failed to undertake the measures necessary to ensure that the expert submitted his opinion in good time. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint; on 3 february 2016, the federal constitutional court declined to accept the constitutional complaint for adjudication, without giving any reasons for its decision (2 bvr 157/14).
the first applicant is the widow and the second applicant is the son of the late john demjanjuk. they were born in 1925 and 1965, respectively, and live in ohio, the united states of america. on 12 may 2011 the munich regional court ii, after 91 days of trial, convicted john demjanjuk on 16 counts as an accessory to the murder of at least 28,060 persons. it sentenced him to a total of five years’ imprisonment for these crimes. the judgment ran to 220 pages plus appendices. both the accused and the public prosecutor filed appeals on points of law against that judgment. defence counsel submitted a brief containing the grounds for the appeal on points of law in november 2011 and subsequently submitted four additional briefs, the last of which was received by the regional court on 12 january 2012. on 24 february 2012, the public prosecutor’s office instructed that the file, along with the submissions by the public prosecutor’s office in response to the defence counsel’s submissions, be transferred to the federal court of justice, which was competent to examine the appeal on points of law. the conviction was based on a thorough examination of the evidence as to the facts and an assessment of all relevant legal aspects. the duration of the trial, which had lasted for almost one and a half years, was attributable, to a significant degree, to the time-consuming strategy pursued by the defence. likewise, the defence had filed more than twenty complaints alleging bias with regard to each of the professional judges sitting on the case, again often repeating arguments and considerations that had already been ruled on. it would have been possible to conclude the trial within a few months, while fully respecting defence rights, if the defence had exercised its procedural rights in a targeted, structured and technical manner. on 4 october 2012 the munich court of appeal dismissed the immediate appeal as inadmissible due to a lack of standing. the procedural status as an accused in criminal proceedings was personal in nature and could not be transferred, including by way of inheritance. the court of appeal went on to state that the immediate appeal was, in addition, ill-founded. article 6 § 2 of the convention had not been breached. 123, it considered that the decision not to reimburse the late accused’s necessary expenses did not breach that provision, as it did not contain a finding of guilt, which the decision itself explicitly stated. it was permissible, in view of the establishment of the late accused’s guilt by the trial court, to find that there continued to be, at the time the proceedings were discontinued, a state of suspicion against the late accused, and to apply article 467 § 3, second sentence, number 2, of the code of criminal procedure on that basis. on 12 october 2012 counsel filed a complaint to be heard, which the court of appeal dismissed as ill-founded on 15 november 2012. 2 bvr 2397/12), without providing reasons.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in glendale, california, the united states of america. the applicant worked in the british council’s armenia office (hereinafter “the british council”) as a project manager on a full-time, permanent contract starting from 25 november 2002. in the course of her employment the applicant had two children, born on 27 march 2008 and 7 may 2010. in particular, she sent such requests in march and september 2009 as regards her first child and then in april and september 2010 as regards her second child. in march 2011 her leave was further extended until 1 september 2011. according to the applicant, on 19 august 2011 she requested another extension of her maternity leave. who was to return to armenia on 17 august 2011 after a visit to the united states. on 30 september 2011 the applicant received notice of termination of her employment contract prior to its term. the notice referred to the change in volume and conditions of work at the british council, as well as the need to reduce the number of staff. we also inform you that your employment contract shall be terminated ... considering the fact that you did not return to work after the completion of your unpaid maternity leave, which was to end on 1 september 2011, as indicated in your letter sent to us by fax on 17 march 2011. it appears that the applicant sent emails to the management of the british council in relation to the early termination of her employment. a lawyer and a representative of prudence, a law firm which provided legal services to the british council, replied to the applicant on behalf of that body. on 30 december 2011 the applicant brought a claim against the british council before the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, contesting the order of 1 december 2011 and seeking reinstatement. another lawyer with prudence, to represent jointly or separately its interests before courts of all instances in armenia. on 16 january 2012 the british council was notified by the district court of its taking over of the examination of the case and the judge appointed. after the proceedings before the district court, it was discovered that judge a.m. and the lawyer ar.m. furthermore, the law firm prudence, of which ar.m. on 6 august 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that judge a.m. had lacked impartiality when deciding her case owing to his close family ties to the legal representatives of her opponent in the proceedings. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar arguments to those submitted in her previous appeal. on 28 november 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible for lack of merit.
the first applicant, mr aleksandr viktorovich ivanov, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1956. on 10 july 1997 the supreme court of ukraine upheld that judgment and it became final. on 29 may 1999 the applicant was transferred to zhytomyr prison. according to the applicant, no further examination or medical treatment was carried out following the above-mentioned test. he was recommended to undergo an in-depth clinical immunology examination. there is no information in the case file as to whether that recommendation was followed up. on 25 june 2008, following a regular medical examination by a specialist in infectious diseases, the applicant was diagnosed with stage 2 hiv infection (the cd-4 count was 176 cells). according to the applicant’s medical file provided by the government, in november 2008 he was examined by a doctor from the zhytomyr regional centre for aids prevention and control (“the anti-aids centre”). the parties did not inform the court about the treatment the applicant was provided with after december 2011. upon arrival at the lutsk sizo in september 2000, the second applicant was examined by the sizo medical personnel and placed under monitoring as a person who had suffered tuberculosis (tb). according to the applicant, in march 2003 he underwent a medical check and was diagnosed with tb. from june to august 2003 he did not receive any treatment. in september 2003 his treatment was resumed and a special diet was prescribed for him. the parties did not specify the nature of that treatment. on 30 march 2004 he was examined by another tuberculosis specialist and was diagnosed with spontaneously cured tb (спонтанно вилікуваний туберкульоз), and tuberculoma of the upper part of the left lung. he was prescribed some treatment, the nature of which was not specified by the parties. the second applicant submitted that he was forced to remain in a bent position with his arms handcuffed behind his back during regular searches of his cell, for outside walks, and on the way to take showers. upon completion of the search, the applicant was taken back to the cell, the handcuffs were removed and he was allowed to stand up straight once the cell door had been closed. the inmates were escorted by a group of prison guards and dogs. sometimes that procedure was followed with beatings with rubber truncheons.
according to the most recently available information, at the time of the events in june 2016 the applicant was detained in kirovograd pre-trial detention facility no. in april 2014 the applicant’s health deteriorated. he complained of fever, abdominal pain and vomiting. on 11 april 2014 the applicant complained of feeling unwell to the prison medical unit. according to the case-file material, he was not prescribed medical treatment. he was diagnosed with acute chronic gastroduodenitis and was prescribed dietary treatment for three days. on 6, 8 and 13 october and 5 november 2014, and 6 march 2015, in response to further complaints by the applicant, he was prescribed outpatient treatment. following another such complaint, on 16 april 2015 the prison doctor diagnosed the applicant with acute chronic gastroduodenitis and recommended that he be further examined at a specialist institution with a view to deciding whether he required surgery. the parties did not inform the court whether the applicant had undergone the recommended examination. from 2 to 29 may and from 3 to 11 june 2015 the applicant underwent inpatient treatment for acute chronic gastroduodenitis in the prison medical unit. according to the government, he was administered the prescribed medication and his state of health improved. on 21 september 2015 he was transferred back to the prison. furthermore, he allegedly had no mattress to sleep on. on 30 december 2015 he was early released from the disciplinary cell. on 12 october 2015 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the kirovograd regional prosecutor’s office that the applicant was not receiving the requisite medical care in detention. he submitted, in particular, that the surgery which the applicant required had been postponed owing to the lack of funds. he prescribed the applicant medication and recommended elective surgery. on 27 january 2016 the prison service took a decision on the applicant’s transfer to the hospital for the required surgery. on 12 february 2016 the applicant informed the prison governor that he had refused the treatment offered to him in the hospitals within the dnipropetrovsk and kharkiv sizos because of lack of trust in the doctors of those facilities. the government did not provide documentary evidence in respect of that statement.
the applicants were born in 1976, 1981, 1995 and 1989 respectively and live in karcsa. on 3 september 2013 the applicants, riding in a car driven by the first applicant, arrived at a petrol station in sátoraljaújhely, at about midnight. at the petrol station two police officers called on the applicants to identify themselves, for no apparent reason. while in the car, the first applicant was hit in the spine and, once at the police station, was dragged, with his bottom against the ground, into the building while being kicked repeatedly. at the police station, the second applicant’s trousers were pulled off and his testicles squeezed; he was repeatedly hit and kicked and his back was injured with a sharp object. when the first applicant asked for a doctor, this was refused by the officers who said that he could have a doctor once he was dead. intimidated, the other applicants signed the waiver. passing by the petrol station in a patrol vehicle, recognised the car described by the staff of the night club, stopped and proceeded to check the applicants’ identities at about 12.45 a.m. the applicants did not co-operate and behaved aggressively towards the officers, calling them names. they applied physical restraint and handcuffed the third and fourth applicants, and placed them in the police vehicle. in the ensuing proceedings, the first applicant stated that he had handed over his wallet containing his id card to the officers immediately upon being requested to do so. similarly, the criminal complaint filed by the applicants had not contained any reference to what the first applicant stated in his subsequent testimony, namely that he had been kicked in the head – his left temple – on the flight of steps leading to the entrance of the police station. he alleged that most of the kicks had hit his head and that there had even been a footprint on his head. he could not give an acceptable explanation for this contradiction. however, the audio recordings of the radio traffic did not contain such a statement. the second applicant sustained suffusions on his neck and right upper arm, abrasions on his back and lower right arm, and erythema on both wrists. the case was investigated by the miskolc investigation office and, subsequently, by the debrecen bureau of the central prosecutorial investigation office. its conclusions were similar to those in the first applicant’s case. as regards the broken scaphoid bone, the expert found that it was an inveterate lesion that had occurred at least six to eight months prior to the incident. in sum, the expert stated that the fourth applicant’s allegation that he had been assaulted for hours on end was not supported by the medical findings. on 14 october 2014 the attorney general’s office rejected a complaint by the applicants against the discontinuation order.
the applicants were born in 1997 and 1999 respectively and live in bucharest. on 20 july 2010 x, the applicants’ sister, nine-year-old at the time, was grievously injured in a car accident. she was immediately admitted to hospital where, after four days of intense suffering, she died. a criminal investigation for involuntary manslaughter was initiated against the driver of the car. it was established that while driving at about ninety‑two kilometres per hour (when the speed limit was fifty kilometres per hour) she lost control of her car and mounted the pavement where the applicants’ sister was situated. on 26 september 2010, during the pre-trial investigation stage, the applicants, their mother and their older brothers brought a claim for damages in the criminal proceedings. on 24 october 2011 the bucharest district court severed the civil claims from the criminal proceedings. on 6 december 2011 the bucharest district court awarded each civil party (including the applicants) 100,000 euros (eur) in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage. it ordered the driver’s insurance company to pay the damages. the court held that between the civil parties and the nine‑year‑old girl there had been a strong emotional relationship and the girl’s violent death had caused intense pain to her family. all the parties appealed against the judgment. no new pieces of evidence were adduced before the bucharest court of appeal. on 9 april 2012 the bucharest court of appeal allowed the appeal on points of law lodged by the insurance company. it ordered the driver of the car to pay the damages, holding that the insurance company’s liability was only contractual and therefore subsidiary. in relation to the claims lodged by their older siblings, the court decreased the awards to eur 25,000 each. the wording of the court judgment read as follows:
“the court will dismiss the civil claims lodged by cosmin mihai deaconu and alexandru bogdan deaconu on grounds other than those invoked by the insurance company. in the present case, the applicants’ situation should be assessed in a different way, having regard to the fact that at the time of their minor sister’s accident they were younger than fourteen and therefore they were not aware of the negative consequences of her death. this aspect was apparent to persons who had a close relationship with the deceased’s family; thus, witness n.g.g. contended in her statement before the court that the younger brothers were less aware than their older brothers, who suffered...” 14. the court also decreased the award for their mother in respect of non‑pecuniary damage to eur 50,000.
from 22 july 2016 the applicant was held in the chernigiv pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”) as a suspect in respect of a crime. on 8 september 2016, while being held at the sizo, the applicant suffered acute myocardial infarction. he was treated at kozeletsk town hospital from 8 until 19 september 2016. on 27 september and 6 october 2016 the applicant underwent examinations at the chernigiv regional cardiological centre. he was diagnosed with ischemic heart disease; acute myocardial infarction; third‑stage hypertonic disease; a hypertensive heart; and second-degree heart failure. the applicant was prescribed outpatient medical treatment and a further heart examination. on the last mentioned date he was recommended to undergo a cardiac ventriculography test. on 15 march 2017, the hospital informed the sizo authorities that the cost of a cardiac ventriculography test was 4,000 hryvnias (uah – approximately 140 euros (eur)). there is no information regarding whether that test was undertaken. on 23 may 2017 the applicant was transported to the hospital, where the previous diagnosis was confirmed (see paragraph 8 above). on the same day he was returned to the sizo and provided with outpatient treatment. on 16 june 2017 the applicant refused that offer, arguing that he could not be transported in a prison van owing to his state of health. the case file contains a statement by the applicant dated 16 june 2017 addressed to the head of the sizo, according to which he did not refuse transportation but insisted on it being in a form that was compatible with his state of health. following a further deterioration in the applicant’s health, on 22 june 2017 the ambulance took him to the hospital, where the previous diagnosis (see paragraph 8 above) was confirmed, electrocardiography and cardiac ventriculography tests were recommended, and he was prescribed some medication. the applicant did not receive the prescribed medication in full owing to a lack of funds. the extract furthermore stated that he remained under the supervision of the sizo medical staff and did not require inpatient medical treatment. according to the available information, from august 2016 until september 2017 the applicant underwent more than fifteen examinations, both within the sizo and at civilian hospitals, and an ambulance was called twelve times to provide him with urgent treatment. on an unspecified date the applicant was released from custody. on 7 november 2017 he underwent an examination at the amosov cardiology institute. there is no information regarding whether the applicant has undergone the recommended surgery and treatment.
the applicant company is a legal entity registered in mažeikiai. the applicant company was also dissatisfied with the level of the fine and was of the view that that it had been disproportionate. on 28 june 2008 the vilnius regional administrative court stated the following. on 8 december 2008 the supreme administrative court delivered its decision, stating that it disagreed with the first-instance court regarding a number of procedural violations but holding that the competition council had not extensively explained why it had ignored the applicant company’s arguments regarding the scope of the market. it submitted that the investigation of the applicant company’s activities had covered the period between 2002 and 2004. although the initial investigation had not mentioned the end date of the actions examined, it could be presumed that the last investigated action had been undertaken on 31 december 2004. the court held that final court decisions had to be executed, and that in view of the fact that the decision of the supreme administrative court of 8 december 2008 had become final (see paragraph 11 above), the competition council had an obligation to reopen the investigation into the applicant company’s activities. the applicant company lodged an appeal, which was dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 13 may 2010. one of the breaches committed by the applicant company had started in 2002; one had started in 2003; and the rest had started in 2004. there was no information that the applicant company had ended its unlawful activities (except for one of them). such economic entities would only have to behave in such a manner as to ensure that the court proceedings in respect of their own behaviour lasted for a long time. the competition council decided that the provisions of the code of administrative offences had to be applied in the applicant company’s case and that – irrespective of the rules of the law on competition – the time-limit had to be calculated from the day on which the supreme administrative court had adopted its decision. the competition council also relied on the decision of the supreme administrative court of 13 may 2010, whereby the court held that the competition council had been obliged to reopen the investigation and not to start a new one (see paragraph 15 above). on 15 april 2011 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the applicant company’s complaint. the competition council was of the view that the limitation period had not started running before 22 december 2005 and that even if it had, it must have stopped when the competition council had adopted its decision (see paragraph 8 above). the applicant company appealed, raising the issue of the limitation period. on 21 january 2013 the supreme administrative court upheld the arguments of the vilnius regional administrative court (see paragraph 18 above). it added that there was disagreement between the parties about the dates on which the applicant company had committed violations. moreover, the circumstances of the instant case and the one in which the decision of 21 june 2012 has been adopted, are not the same or so similar that they could be examined similarly. the court did however lower the fine to ltl 7,819,450 (approximately eur 2,264,669).
the applicants are shareholders of two savings banks, namely kinizsi bank zrt. (“ kinizsi bank”) and mohácsi takarék bank zrt. (“ therefore, the facts of the case below do not contain any further information relating specifically to pátria cooperative. their clientele was mostly from the local community. with the active support of the hungarian state and the phare program of the european union, they entered into an integration agreement. the key institutions of the integration were the national association of savings cooperatives (országos takarékszövetkezeti szövetség – “otsz”), the savings bank (takarékbank zrt.) otiva, on the one hand, improved the security of deposits placed with the savings cooperatives by supplementing the national deposit insurance fund (országos betétbiztosítási alap – “oba”), and, on the other hand, served to prevent crisis situations and improved the stability of savings cooperatives. they however remained members of otiva and part of the above-mentioned integration. following an audit carried out with respect to 121 cooperative credit institutions, further to the entry into force of the integration act (see paragraph 16 below), a certain number of them had their operating licences withdrawn. furthermore, ninety-one cooperative credit institutions were obliged to commit reserves, in eight cases a serious crisis situation was established and some required a capital injection from the integration organisation (see paragraph 18 below). according to the government, basing its findings on the data collected after the integration act came into force, considering the capital/loan ratio, thirty-nine cooperative credit institutions would not have been in a position to ensure profitable operations without the new measures. it made the cooperative credit institutions ipso jure members of the integration organisation and shareholders of the savings bank. due to the changes in the ownership of the savings bank pursuant to the integration act (see in particular, sections 13 and 20, cited in paragraph 39 below) the shareholding of kinizsi bank and mohácsi bank in the savings bank changed. while the two banks previously possessed 0.15% and 2.27% respectively in the savings bank, they had a 0.12% and 1.83% stake respectively following the implementation of the integration act. the solvency capital of the cooperative credit institutions is determined collectively, including the property of the savings bank and the integration organisation. in july 2013 banks could leave the integration if they were each able to provide an additional huf 2 billion, approximately eur 6 million, as for the creation of a new bank. in 2014 its stake in the savings bank was sold, through a bidding process, to one company. these cases did not concern kinizsi bank or mohácsi bank. on 30 march 2015 a similar judgment was given by the veszprém high court in a case brought by the shareholders of kinizsi bank. however, both banks were able to comply with the new requirement.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in baku, azerbaijan, in 1992 and came to russia in 2003, together with his mother and grandmother. he graduated from a secondary school and a vocational training college in st petersburg. the judgment described him as a “native” (уроженец) and a national of azerbaijan. on 12 february 2014 the federal migration service requested the consulate general of azerbaijan in st petersburg to submit information about the applicant’s nationality. replying to that inquiry, on 14 april 2014 the consulate confirmed that the applicant was not a national of that state. by a judgment of 17 july 2014, as upheld on appeal on 30 october 2014, the st petersburg courts refused to discontinue the proceedings, finding that the bailiff had not shown that she had taken sufficient measures to secure the applicant’s removal. on 7 august 2014 counsel for the applicant asked the st petersburg city court to review the kirovskiy district court’s judgment by way of supervisory review, to annul the sanction of administrative removal and to release the applicant. on 25 november 2014 a deputy president of the city court acceded to her request. noting that the applicant was not an azerbaijani national, the judge found that his removal was not feasible and that his detention was likely to become indefinite. on 27 november 2014 the applicant was released. the applicant described his conditions of detention as follows. it was not furnished, inmates unrolled mattresses for the night. from 20 february to 5 may 2014 he was held in a smaller, seven‑square-metre cell (cell 310), together with five or six persons. two-tier bunk beds were brought in only in late april 2014. from 5 may to 27 november 2014 he was in cell 309 measuring seventeen square metres. initially it had accommodated twelve persons but their number rose to seventeen in november when they started renovating the cells on the seventh and eighth floors of the facility. detainees had to remain within the floor on which their cell was located; they could not go outside or to other floors. outdoor exercise was limited to a fifteen-minute walk once a week because there was not enough staff to supervise the detainees. the facility did not have a library, board games, radio or workshop, or offer any other meaningful activities.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in biržai. on 11 april 2008 the applicant’s son, m.p., at around 2-3 p.m. on 14 april at biržai police station to discuss whether to appeal against the court ruling imposing detention, but m.p. ’s body, they would have been noted in the medical report. on 15 april 2008, the incident scene was inspected, photographs were taken, one of them showing a white sheet on the bunk bed, and police officers who worked at biržai police station had been questioned. nevertheless, the prosecutor had failed to assess that internal-investigation report. it transpires from the material before the court that that document had been in the possession of the applicant who had refused to give it to the authorities. furthermore, the recordings showed that the guards d.a. on 13 january 2012 the prosecutor again discontinued the pre-trial investigation into the circumstances of m.p. had been a suicide risk, so as to confer liability on the officer. ’s failure to perform their duties had caused m.p. the applicant was present at the court hearing. the experts also explained that the death of m.p. ’s wrists, which the applicant alleged had been inflicted during handcuffing, the experts had explained that those had appeared after the first autopsy when m.p. the applicant still considered that her son could have been a victim of police violence. firstly, after the last re-opening of the pre-trial investigation an examination of the video recordings was performed by a forensic expert, who had disproved the applicant’s allegation that the video recordings from biržai police station had been tampered with (see paragraph 42 above). although the applicant had expressed doubts in respect of the evidence gathered, in her appeal she had not presented any new arguments regarding what particular pre-trial investigation actions had not been performed, what data had not been evaluated, or what investigative actions, had they been performed, would have clarified any important circumstances in this case. ’s death, the police also conducted an internal investigation. on 30 may 2008 the internal investigator produced report no. 50-1-is-42, which was approved by the chief of the panevėžys city police.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in dushanbe, tajikistan, in 1971 and came to russia in 1993. he graduated from a vocational training college in the arkhangelsk region. the applicant was required to leave russia voluntarily by 14 september 2014. he was informed of this decision on 27 august 2014. a few days later the building was damaged by fire. on 7 october the applicant was transferred to the krasnoye selo facility in the leningrad region (сувсиг уфмс по спб и ло). subsequently, a bailiff asked the district court in st petersburg to discontinue the enforcement proceedings because the applicant could not be issued with travel documents or removed from russia. he submitted that the applicant was an apatride, that no state was willing to accept him, and that he had already spent seven months in custody in poor conditions. on 4 june 2015 the district court rejected the application. it considered that even an apatride could be removed from russia and that the length of the applicant’s detention had not been unreasonable. referring to the case-law of the russian constitutional court prohibiting indefinite detention of individuals (judgment no. on 31 july 2015 the district court carried out a fresh determination of the application. the district court discontinued the execution of the removal and detention order and ordered the applicant’s release. the applicant shared the cell with three other detainees. its floor surface was given as fifteen square metres by the applicant and as twenty-seven square metres by the government. each detainee had his own bed and bed linen. a squat toilet and a sink were placed inside the cell and separated with a one-metre-high wall. detainees were allowed to spend up to fifteen minutes outside per week, in the courtyard of the facility. food was brought in pre-cooked, the ration did not include fish, dairy products or fresh fruit.
the applicants are former employees and heirs of former employees of company f. - c.m.e. the company experienced a series of financial problems in 1985, leading to it being unable to continue paying salaries to its staff. on 8 may 1995 the case was remitted to the aveiro court. having learnt that a site division and urban development plan (plano de pormenor) encompassing the land of company f. had been drawn up by the municipality of aveiro, former employees of the company, including some of the applicants, applied to the aveiro court on 12 december 1997, requesting that it wait for the plan to be approved before ordering the sale of company f.’s assets. on 9 february 2001 the first applicant appealed against that judgment to the supreme court of justice. on 19 february 2001 the applicant rosa rodrigues casal (applicant no. on 6 december 2001 the supreme court of justice delivered a judgment confirming the classification of claims by the coimbra court of appeal (see paragraphs 9 and 11 above). in a decision of 29 january 2003 the court appointed a new liquidator. on an unspecified date a part of the land measuring 17,629.10 sq. m and a separate plot were put up for sale. on 14 july 2011 a session at which offers to purchase could be made took place, and no offers were received. the court ordered the judicial liquidator to submit the documentation concerning that session and the proposal for sale within ten days. in the absence of any reply to the two previous requests, on 17 april 2012 the court ordered the judicial liquidator to provide information on the state of the proceedings, and also ordered that he would be fined if he did not provide such a reply. on 23 april 2012 the judicial liquidator informed the court that no offers to purchase had been received, and he proposed to initiate contact with companies which specialised in the real-estate sector. on 4 june 2012 he was informed that his request had been granted. following the aveiro commercial court insisting that the judicial liquidator provide information on the progress regarding contact with real-estate companies by way of three notifications (sent to him on 27 september, 19 october and 19 november 2012), on 16 january 2013 he informed the court that only one real-estate company had expressed interest in mediating the sale of the property. on the same date the judicial liquidator informed the court that only three real-estate companies had replied and that those replies were negative. he then suggested that a new procedure for a sale by private agreement should be initiated, this time for 50% of the previously requested amount. according to the latest information received by the court on 21 may 2018, the insolvency proceedings were, on that date, still ongoing. 34422/97, and decided to close the examination of its enforcement.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in the town of snizhne, donetsk region. on 14 january 2004 the applicant’s son, born in 1967, was found dead in the applicant’s barn. on the same day police officers inspected the scene and reported that the man had committed suicide by hanging. on 24 january 2004 the investigator of the snizhne prosecutor’s office, following the pre-investigation inquiries, refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established in relation to the death of the applicant’s son. on 11 february 2004, following a forensic medical examination, an expert concluded that the applicant’s son’s death had been caused by strangulation by a loop of rope, possibly as a result of the applicant’s son’s body weight pulling against the rope. numerous investigating instructions were given. in the course of further pre-investigation inquiries, between 2005 and 2012, the investigators took measures to establish the circumstances of the applicant’s son’s death. they questioned various persons, and ordered numerous additional medical examinations of the corpse of the deceased. at a certain point medical experts noted that the applicant’s son’s body had numerous fractures. the experts opined that all those fractures had been inflicted after the applicant’s son’s death, possibly during the exhumation of the body. the applicant’s husband informed the authorities that when he had seen his dead son in the barn, the corpse of his son had been in a sitting position and the rope loop had not been tightened. the applicant argued that it had not been suicide but a violent murder. she advanced different theories, suspecting notably: police security guards who had allegedly taken the applicant’s son from a local bar, following which he had been found dead; a local police officer who had engaged in a dispute with the applicant’s son; a woman who had been employed by the applicant’s son in his textile business and her husband; the applicant’s son’s brothers-in-law; a business partner of the applicant’s son; and people from a local gambling club (the applicant’s son had been engaged in transporting money from the club to another town). on 25 april 2005, 26 march 2006, 20 august 2008, 17 february and 12 december 2011, 15 february 2012 and 17 september 2012, following the pre-investigation inquiries, the investigators refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established. on 7 december 2012 the applicant, relying on the new code of criminal procedure of 2012, requested that an investigation be opened in respect of the alleged murder of her son. on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted. on 24 december 2012, 22 july and 30 september 2013 the criminal proceedings were terminated because no elements of a crime could be established. those decisions were quashed by the supervising authorities as unsubstantiated and further investigations were ordered. in particular, on 5 december 2013 the snizhne town court quashed the decision of 30 september 2013 after finding that the investigation had not been thorough and comprehensive. on 1 april 2014 the criminal proceedings were closed one more time on the ground that no elements of a crime could be established.
the applicant was born in 1925 and at the time of the introduction of the application lived in dublin. on that occasion she had not approached him, but they met some time later before a lawyer. she stated that the applicant greeted her warmly and that, after that, they met various times. according to x. the applicant had told her that he would not inform his children about her in order not to disrupt their schooling and she agreed. at that stage the applicant had given her the keys to another property for her to reside in. she remained in close contact with him until 1985. in 1998 she was evicted from the property and thereafter their relationship deteriorated. y. stated that she later gave birth to a child she had with him (x.) and thereafter their relationship had deteriorated, to the extent that he had also wanted her to prostitute herself. she finally plucked up courage, left him, and returned to malta with x. 13. he further questioned why the request had been lodged fifty‑three years after x.’s birth and noted his advanced age, arguing that any intervention could have negative medical implications for him. furthermore, the age of x. was irrelevant to her quest to discover her genetic parent. in that light the applicant could not claim that his family life would now be in havoc. on 10 november 2014 the applicant appealed. while it had focused mostly on the legal aspects of the case, it did not mean that it had not considered the factual elements pertinent to the case, and indeed its conclusions had specifically referred to the case at issue and were not general. thus, her impelling interest in determining paternity was clear. thus, the application of the relevant law to the applicant’s case would be justified given that the aim was precisely to establish the identity of the x. and safeguard her patrimonial interest, if it were to be found that she was the applicant’s daughter. it appointed an expert to conduct such an examination and requested her to submit a report by 28 january 2016. on 6 october 2016 counsel informed the court that it was likely that the applicant would file an affidavit with his own evidence. however, no such written testimony was submitted. from the minutes of the hearing of 6 april 2017, it appears that the expert could not attend that hearing, so the court authorised her to submit the report, and confirm it on oath, at the court’s registry; the court also solicited the applicant’s details.
the applicant, who belongs to the german-speaking minority in belgium, was born in 1957. an expert psychiatric report drawn up by dr ri. on 9 june 2006 the cds examined the application. it adjourned examination of the request sine die. no satisfactory follow-up has been given to the requests by the [social protection] board for an end to be put to this unlawful situation for mr rooman, who is deprived of his freedom in order, on the one hand, to protect society from possible dangerous conduct by him, and on the other, to provide him with the treatment necessary for his reinsertion; ...
in the light of the authorities’ failure, the question now before the board is whether there exists, outside the social-protection facility, a unit or persons who could provide home-based therapy for mr rooman; ...” 26. on 13 november 2013 the applicant again applied for discharge. on 22 july 2014 the csds issued an interlocutory order, requesting the cds to appoint a group of german-speaking experts to update the psychiatric report of 21 january 2009. in a decision of that date, the csds took note of the fact that the applicant had been treated by a german-speaking psychologist since 11 july 2014 and by a german-speaking psychiatrist since 16 september 2014. by a decision of 20 may 2015, the csds dismissed the request for final or conditional discharge, considering that the applicant’s state of health had not improved sufficiently and that the conditions for his reintegration into society were not met. he requested his discharge or, in the alternative, that the authorities be ordered to take the measures required by his state of health. in their respective replies, dated 28 august 2014, the director of the paifve eds and dr b. indicated that the applicant now had access to consultations with a german-speaking psychologist and that the authorities had made contact with a german-speaking psychiatrist who had agreed to meet the applicant. in addition, it has produced no evidence of the slightest step taken by it to that end. this failure to act amounts to negligence within the meaning of article 1382 of the civil code. she considered that, in order for “the conditions for conditional discharge to be satisfied, and given mr rooman’s personality, the only safe option was [conditional] discharge to an institution [a structured facility]”. ... while accepting [the applicant’s] argument that the failure to provide treatment in his mother tongue broke the link between the compulsory confinement and the illness at its origin, so that the detention became unlawful ..., it should again be noted that the unlawful nature of the detention ended following the measures currently put in place. [the applicant’s] current detention is justified by his mental health, and the conditions of his detention make it possible to provide him with treatment while at the same time ensuring his safety and that of others. with regard to psychiatric treatment, the document submitted by the government indicates that the applicant was treated by various french‑speaking psychiatrists. on 20 may 2015 the applicant met with dr v., a german-speaking psychiatrist. since november 2017, the german-speaking welfare assistant had returned to her post in the paifve eds and continued to meet the applicant several times a month. in 2016 he had resumed contact with his family.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in ceira (portugal). he was released at his request, having filled out a release form; 6. went to lisbon to try to renew his driving licence for heavy vehicles. who had been his psychiatric doctor since december 1999. for the first week of his stay at the hsc, he was placed under a restrictive regime, even though he was a voluntary inpatient (see paragraph 54 below). to the emergency department of the coimbra university hospital because he had drunk a large amount of alcohol. according to the oral statement of one nurse and the clinical record, he had eaten well, including his afternoon snack at around 4.45 p.m. 23. she was assured that some minutes earlier he had been standing at the door and he looked fine. april 2000...
...
the [plaintiff’s] son suffered from disturbances which caused depressive behaviour with a significant inclination to suicide. taking into account the clinical documents, his clinical condition may have led to another attempt to commit suicide, which turned out to be fatal. but with a patient like this one, these measures are difficult to adopt (see for example his requests to be discharged despite the doctor’s opinion, which is substantiated) and never sufficient because of the high potential for suicide. who had been the emergency doctor on call on 27 april 2000, explained that had the nurses in the pavilion seen a problem with a.j. regarding the episode on 25 april 2000, the court decided to view it simply as an abuse of alcohol, taking into account his underlying chronic alcoholism and the fact that the drinking had taken place in the afternoon and mainly at a café. on 25 april 2011 the coimbra administrative court delivered a judgment in which it ruled against the applicant. on 12 may 2011 the applicant appealed to the administrative supreme court, claiming that the first-instance court had wrongly assessed the evidence, that its findings of fact had been incorrect, and that it had wrongly interpreted the law. he recommended that the first-instance judgment should be reversed. ’s medical report there are references to suicide attempts; the last one occurred on 1 april 2000, some days before 26 april 2000 when he went back to hsc after being treated at [coimbra university hospital] due to the consumption of a large amount of alcohol; the possibility of a suicide attempt was thus a “probable risk” or, among the possible risks, one which could be anticipated in so far as it could be expected by a prudent assessor (avaliador prudente). a regime which could be suited to preventing any possible exit from the hospital, ...
this enhanced surveillance, which aims at protecting the patient, is part of the therapeutic obligation of the hospital and it does not conflict with the open-door regime as a treatment method applied to patients in the circumstances in which it is considered suitable.” as to the foreseeability of the suicide, the administrative supreme court held that the hsc had not breached any duty of care, as there had been no indication which could have led the hospital staff to suspect that the applicant’s son would try to commit suicide that day, namely by leaving the hospital grounds. the main entrance to the hsc had a barrier and a security guard.
the applicant company is a private company that was set up in 2007 and has its registered office in yerevan. on 18 january 2008 the applicant company initiated compensation proceedings against company s. in the yerevan civil court (“the civil court”), arguing that it had completed the construction work as required by the contract of 7 may 2007, but company s. had failed to make full payment for the work. on 21 january 2008 the civil court admitted the applicant company’s claim. in particular, the court ordered the experts to measure the surface area of the construction work and assess the quality of the construction work carried out. on 19 february 2009 the civil court granted the applicant company’s claim. on 4 march 2009 company s. appealed against the judgment of 19 february 2009. on 29 july 2009 the shengavit district court of yerevan (“the district court”) took over the applicant company’s case. on 26 august 2009 the district court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings. the court ordered that the forensic examination be carried out with the help of the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”). it is unclear what the outcome of that order was. on 21 june 2012 the expert concluded that, owing to the lack of access to the premises of company h., it had not been possible to carry out the forensic examination ordered by the district court on 16 july 2010. on 27 june 2012 the district court resumed the proceedings. on 3 october 2012 the applicant company filed additional submissions with the district court. on 25 november and 24 december 2014 the applicant company submitted a letter to the bureau, enquiring about the progress of the examination ordered by the district court. on 27 december 2014 the bureau responded by stating that the examination which had been ordered had not been carried out due to the lack of an expert in the relevant field. on 28 february 2015 the applicant company submitted another letter to the bureau, reminding it that the examination had not yet been carried out and informing it about the delay that the lack of an expert examination had caused in the civil proceedings. the minister concluded by stating that the examination could be carried out by the bureau, provided that the expert was granted access to the premises concerned. the district court held a number of hearings in 2015 and 2016, and on 9 june and 2 august 2016 it also decided to conduct a new examination of the case. on 15 december 2016 company s. appealed against that judgment. on 23 march 2017 the civil court of appeal rejected the appeal and upheld the contested judgment.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in the early morning of 27 december 2001 a group of approximately twenty federal servicemen who had arrived in two armoured personnel carriers (“apcs”) and uaz vehicles surrounded the house where the applicant lived with her son (mr alvi bugayev), his wife (ms z.s.), on 13 january 2002 the investigators questioned ms r.ya. on 19 january 2002 the investigators requested that the vovd provide them with a list of the people who had been detained with alvi bugayev and of the police officers who had questioned him while he had been in detention. on 6 august 2007 the applicant requested that the investigators provide her with a copy of the decisions to open the criminal case and to grant her victim status and with the latest decision to suspend the investigation. there is no further information on any progress in the proceedings. on 7 january 2002 they ordered an expert examination of the bullet taken out of the body of mr yunusov and on 18 january 2002 the forensics bureau of the chechen ministry of the interior reported that it had been fired from a kalashnikov machinegun. he also requested that the applicants be informed of steps taken to establish the whereabouts of officer a.l., on 1 april 2005 the investigators questioned the fourth applicant, whose statement was similar to the applicants’ submission before the court. the applicants were not informed thereof. on various dates between 26 may and 10 june 2005 the investigators questioned several people who resided in the vicinity of the site of the incident. on 11 june 2005 the investigators again suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 4 september 2006 the investigators questioned the applicants’ relative, mr r.a., whose statement did not provide any new information. on 18 february 2007 the investigation was suspended again. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed thereof. on 26 march 2007 the deputy staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor again overruled the suspension as premature and unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed in order for the previously ordered steps to be taken. the applicants were informed of that decision on 30 march 2007. on 19 november 2008, following the district prosecutor’s criticism, the investigation was resumed in order for the requested steps to be taken. on 13 march 2009 the investigators again suspended the criminal investigation.
the applicants are five russian nationals. their personal details are set out in the appendix. since 1981 the applicants have lived in a flat in an apartment block provided to them under a social tenancy agreement by the ministry of defence of the russian federation. the landlord was under obligation to perform a major overhaul of the apartment block, and the applicants had to make regular payments for the major overhaul. the overhaul had never been performed, allegedly since 1935. on the dates listed in the appendix the orenburgskiy district court of the orenburg region granted their claims, having noted from expert reports that the apartment block was “64%‒dilapidated” and its state was “unsatisfactory”, and that the flat was 64%‒dilapidated. the court found that the applicants’ living premises, as well as the common property of the apartment block required a major overhaul. the court ordered the federal state institution of the privolzhsko-uralskiy military circuit to perform the major overhaul of the applicants’ flat, as well as of the common property of the apartment block and of the “devices situated in the living premises and serving for provision of communal services” in the apartment block, and to pay each applicant 3,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. according to the applicants’ observations, on 9 november 2011 the orenburgskiy district court awarded the claimants rub 490,155.43 (approximately 11.681 euros) of compensation of losses. they did not enclose a copy of the judgment or further details as to either the defendant, or the exact list of claimants, the scope of the judgment or its subsequent challenge on appeal by any of the parties. in 2012 federal state treasury department (управление) of the privolzhsko-uralskiy military circuit became a legal successor of the debtor institution. in 2012 the applicants sued various authorities for penalties for several years of the non-enforcement. by the final judgment of 5 february 2013 the orenburg regional court rejected their claims in full, having found that they were based on an incorrect interpretation of the domestic law and that the applicants had failed to submit a calculation of the penalty. according to the government, in december 2013 the applicant’s house was included in a regional housing overhaul assistance program. the authorities prepared a project and the budget documentation, which were approved by the experts. on 13 april 2015 ms konstantinova privatized the flat and acquired a title to it. according to the government’s latest observations of 31 may 2017, the judgments had remained unenforced at the material time.
the first applicant was born in 1964 and lives in qormi. the second applicant is a limited liability company incorporated in 1996 and registered in marsa, malta. the second applicant is owned by the first applicant. on 27 july 2011, the court of magistrates as a court of criminal judicature found m. (the first applicant’s son, who lives under the same roof as the first applicant) guilty of involuntary grievous bodily harm of two minors, and of driving a peugeot van with registration number hbd096 (hereinafter referred to as “the peugeot”) without a licence. the peugeot was registered in the name of maxkim limited (the second applicant). the authorities eventually took physical possession of the peugeot. however, by this time, the peugeot had been returned to the importer following an agreement between him and the second applicant which provided that the latter would not pay any further instalments in connection with the hire purchase agreement with which the car had been acquired. despite the above finding, the car was not released by the authorities. on 26 march 2014 the court of criminal appeal rejected the ag’s appeal in toto. on 27 march 2014 the toyota was returned to the first applicant. in the meantime, on 28 november 2012, the applicants (mr ciantar in his name and on behalf of maxkim limited) filed proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence. under article 6 the applicants argued that they had never been accused of a crime and had not had the opportunity to defend themselves before a court; however, they had nonetheless suffered the imposition of a penal punishment upon them. furthermore, the court of criminal appeal had refused to grant back to the first applicant possession of the toyota in violation of the law. in regard to the alleged violation of article 1 of protocol no. 1, the court held that the confiscation of the peugeot had been ordered by a final judgment of the court of criminal appeal in the first set of criminal proceedings and therefore there could be no doubt that the confiscation was in compliance with the law (article 3 of the ordinance). it noted that article 3 was aimed at protecting innocent citizens from abuse by people who broke the law by driving vehicles without a licence or without insurance. it followed that it was not in violation of the invoked provisions. regarding the claim for damages, the court concluded that the applicants must demand them from m., since m. was the one who had violated the law leading to the institution of the criminal proceedings with the ensuing consequences. on 7 november 2013 the applicants filed an appeal before the constitutional court. article 3 of the ordinance was therefore declared null and void in regard to such consequences.
the first applicant (mr ryklin) was born in 1958. the second applicant (mr sharov) was born in 1956. both applicants are human rights activists and pro-democracy campaigners. on 21 april 2015 the applicants, with three others, sent written notification to the moscow mayor’s office of their intention to hold a demonstration with some 15,000 participants from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on 6 may 2015 in bolotnaya square. on 30 april 2015 the department repeated this proposal in a letter. the event organisers were also warned that if they rejected this proposal they would not be allowed to hold a public event at all. according to the applicants, they informed all possible participants in the demonstration about its cancellation by way of posting information on the internet and via various mass-media outlets. according to the applicants, each positioned himself at a distance from other people with a political banner. the applicants considered that each of them was staging a solo demonstration which did not require prior notification of the authorities. a few minutes later the applicants were arrested and taken to a police van. the second applicant was brought to the police station at 7.25 p.m. and placed under administrative arrest at 7.40 p.m. the records of the transfer contained an indication that both applicants were taken to the police station for an administrative offence record to be drawn up. on 6 may 2015 at 10.15 p.m. the first applicant was transported to the police station in zamoskvorechye district of moscow. the second applicant was taken to that same court on 7 may 2015 at 4.10 p.m. 13. in particular, they called upon others to shout political slogans; the second applicant had a banner. the court found that the first applicant, with the second applicant, had organised and held a group public event in the form of a “meeting” with about fifty participants, without notifying the authorities in advance. it dismissed the applicant’s argument that he had staged a solo demonstration, after considering it as a line of defence. the court also refused to admit in evidence a video recording of the events in bolotnaya square, because it was “undated and did not contain the entire chronology of events preceding [the applicant’s] arrest”. on the same day the zamoskvoretskiy district court heard the case against the second applicant. both the applicants appealed, insisting that they had staged solo demonstrations. on 13 may 2015 the moscow city court upheld the judgments.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in rostov-on-don, russia. on 1 september 2012 festive events were taking place at school no. around 8.15 a.m. on that day the applicant staged a solo demonstration (одиночный пикет) in front of the school. he distributed leaflets to the parents of the pupils expressing his negative opinion about the professional and personal qualities of the headmistress, ms. i, eduard nikolayev, have reasons to believe that your child will be taught from hottentot and old testament ethics. see for yourself: on 10 march 2012 i held a demonstration and was handled by the police. i was then sentenced to two days in detention by a justice of the peace, on a fabricated charge of hooliganism. the school staff called police officer o., who was present at the school premises owing to enhanced security measures taken on that day. according to the applicant, within thirty minutes two additional police officers, t. and m., had arrived. he complied with their order to show his identity documents. however, when the applicant saw police officer t. following him, he changed his mind and returned. the applicant tried to escape; the police used force and handcuffs to stop him. he had not reacted to their multiple requests to calm down and to cease this behaviour, had refused to present his identity documents and had tried to escape. the applicant stayed on sick leave in connection with these injuries from 1 until 24 september 2012. as a result, it was determined that police officers t. and m. had acted in accordance with the law and internal requirements and had not breached the applicant’s rights. 1 of rostov-on-don informed the applicant in a letter that the administrative proceedings against him had been discontinued as his actions lacked the constituent elements of the crime. by a judgment of 5 april 2013 the voroshilovskiy district court of rostov-on-don dismissed his claims. on the basis of several testimonies, the district court concluded as follows:
“in the present case the police officers intended to put an end to the breach of public order, consisting of [showing] disrespect to society accompanied by the use of foul language in a public place [by the applicant], disturbing citizens in an insulting manner and refusing to obey an order by a public official ... the police officers ... acted within their powers and did not violate the applicant’s rights. the applicant appealed against the judgment. on 17 june 2013 the rostov regional court dismissed the appeal, endorsing the reasoning of the first-instance judgment.
the first applicant (mr grigoryev) was born in 1984 and lives in svetlogorsk. the second applicant (ms igamberdiyeva) was born in 1989 and lives in kaliningrad. the authorities replied that preparations for the new year celebrations were planned on that day; they did not suggest an alternative venue. the second applicant did not challenge the authority’s reply before the domestic courts. both applicants decided to stage solo demonstrations near the monument to “mother russia” instead; this did not require prior notification. according to the applicants, on 12 december 2010 the first applicant staged a solo demonstration holding a banner saying “freedom for khodorkovskiy and lebedev! after he had completed his demonstration and placed himself at a distance of some twenty metres, the second applicant held her own solo demonstration. she completed her demonstration in five minutes. then the first applicant returned to the venue with his banner and remained there for about two minutes, until police officers took him to a police van. he was then taken to a police station and held there for over three hours. between 5.15 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. a duty officer drew up an administrative offence record in respect of the first applicant. the cases against the applicants were submitted to a justice of the peace of court circuit no. 2 of the leninskiy district of kaliningrad. the court ordered the police to submit a video recording showing the events of 12 december 2010. the court relied, inter alia, on the video recording submitted by the police. the appellate court also considered that it had not been confirmed that the applicants had in fact taken part in a group “picket”. by a judgment of 15 july 2011 the tsentralniy district court of kaliningrad found that taking the first applicant to the police station had been unlawful, and awarded him rub 10,000 (equivalent to 250 euros (eur) at the time) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 25 july 2011 the same court also granted the claims by the second applicant, having found that preventing her from staging a solo demonstration and consequently prosecuting her had been unlawful. the first applicant appealed against the judgment of 15 july 2011, complaining, inter alia, about the amount of the compensation and the first‑instance court’s failure to make specific findings in relation to the violation of his freedom of expression on account of the police intervention in his solo demonstration. on 7 september 2011 the kaliningrad regional court upheld the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in orhei. in september 2009 the applicant initiated civil proceedings against a company which was in process of insolvency. on 18 december 2009 the drochia district court found in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant company to pay him 24,957 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 1,413 euros (eur)) for pecuniary damage and mdl 749 (the equivalent of eur 42) for costs and expenses. the representative of the defendant company was not present at the hearing. on 28 december 2009 the secretariat of the drochia district court sent a copy of the reasoned judgment to the defendant company by ordinary mail. on 11 january 2010 an enforcement writ was issued to the applicant by the same court in respect of the judgment of 18 december 2009. on 10 february 2010, in a different set of proceedings concerning the insolvency of the defendant company, the company’s insolvency administrator updated the list of creditors by making express reference to the judgment of 18 december 2009 and to the exact amounts awarded in that judgment. the court which treated the insolvency issued a decision concerning the updated list of creditors on the same date. on 26 april 2010 the insolvency administrator of the defendant company lodged an appeal against the judgment of 18 december 2009. the applicant objected to the appeal by arguing that it had been time-barred. he indicated that the time-limit for lodging the appeal had expired twenty days after the serving of the impugned judgment and that the insolvency administrator of the defendant company had been aware of the judgment of 18 december 2009 since in february 2010 he had informed the court dealing with the insolvency proceedings about the judgment in question. on 28 september 2010 the bălţi court of appeal admitted the appeal lodged by the insolvency administrator of the defendant company and quashed the judgment of 18 december 2009. the court of appeal did respond to the objection raised by the applicant and, after re-examining the merits of the case, dismissed the applicant’s action against the defendant company. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law raising the same arguments as in his appeal. on 26 january 2011 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgment of the lower court. the supreme court did not make any comment about the applicant’s objection concerning the late appeal.
the first applicant (ms muchnik) was born in 1968 and lives in tomsk. the second applicant (mr mordovin) was born in 1956 and lives in seversk, in the tomsk region. as a result, tv-2, one of the leading channels in the tomsk region which had been reporting on everyday life in the region since 1990, stopped broadcasting at the beginning of 2015. these “pickets” were held without prior notification being given to local authorities. on 27 february 2015 an administrative-offence record was compiled in respect of the first applicant. it was stated, in particular, that f. had initiated a number of public assemblies in support of tv-2 from 4 january 2015 onwards, by posting calls for support via social networks. the first applicant had picked up those involved in the solo demonstrations and transported them to the event venues; she had also handed out leaflets to them for distribution. the police officers pointed out that no breaches of the public events act (hereinafter, “the pea”) had been detected; the demonstrators had kept the minimum 30-metre distance from each other and had not breached public order. on 3 march 2015 the case against the first applicant was submitted to the sovetskiy district court of tomsk. however, the judge gave the applicant an hour to study the file, and when her lawyer appeared some time later he requested only fifteen minutes to study the file. the judge’s assistant later reported that the applicant had not studied the file for the hour which she had been given; instead, she had talked on the phone and chatted with the other people present in the courtroom. the applicant was not hindered in any way and completed his demonstration. according to the national authorities and according to the government’s submissions before the court, on 6 august 2014 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. the second applicant, acting together with (seven) other persons, organised and held a public event in the form of “picket” near big city, a shopping centre in tomsk. using visual aids, the applicant and other protestors expressed their opinion about the participants in the events of 6 may 2012 in bolotnaya square in moscow, without giving prior notification to the authorities. on 15 may 2015 the case file against the applicant was submitted to the sovetskiy district court of tomsk. the applicant, who had not been deprived of his liberty, attended the trial and pleaded not guilty. the trial court heard several witnesses on behalf of the defence. the applicant was not represented by a lawyer at the trial. the second applicant lodged an appeal against the above judgment. on 19 june 2015 the tomsk regional court held an appeal hearing and heard the applicant and his lawyer.
the first applicant (ms belan) was born in 1961. the second applicant (ms sviderskaya) was born in 1949. the first applicant intended to take part in the public event. ms t. withdrew her request to hold the planned event. at around 2.20 p.m. the applicant and mr z. were arrested and taken to a police station. the applicant remained there from 2.30 to 6 p.m. she was then allowed to leave. she was immediately approached by a police officer, who ordered her to show her own banner but she refused. the administrative-offence records indicated that the first applicant had held a public event at 3.45 p.m. and the second applicant at 3.10 p.m., and that both offences had been committed near the lenin monument at the entrance to gorkiy park. on an unspecified date the case was transferred to a justice of the peace of circuit no. 2 of the leninskiy district of rostov-on-don. the judge stated that it was unclear who had captured the footage and that they contained no indication of when and where they had been taken. on 4 october 2012 the deputy chief of the city police department replied that the footage from one camera had been “saved” and invited the judge to provide an electronic storage device onto which it could be copied. 4 containing two clips relating to the events on 15 september 2012. the applicant lodged an appeal with the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don, arguing that the public events act (hereinafter “the pea”) conferred on the regional authorities the power to determine the minimum distance between solo demonstrations. it appears that the appellate court heard further evidence from the witness o., who stated that around 3 p.m. on 15 september 2012 she had approached the lenin monument with the intention of expressing her views on the situation in the country; she had seen the applicant standing alone with a banner close to the monument. with regard to the above-mentioned video-recording, the court observed as follows:
“as regards the video examined at the hearing ... it shows [the applicant] holding a banner. in any event, earlier other people were convicted of the same offence at the same time and place. by a letter of 9 january 2013 the regional prosecutor’s office replied that the decisions of 13 november and 3 december 2012 were not amenable to appeal. on 28 december 2012 the justice of the peace granted permission to the applicant to pay the administrative fine of rub 20,000 in three instalments. on 10 january 2014 the supreme court of russia also upheld the judgments.
the applicant was born in 1971 and, at the time of his latest communication with the court, was detained in kirovograd. the first purchase was video-recorded, apparently with a hidden camera (see paragraph 15 below). on 9 march 2007 the applicant was arrested. at the opening of his subsequent trial the applicant admitted that at the time of his arrest he had had a drug-filled syringe in his sleeve and, in trying to get rid of the drug, had ejected the liquid over his sweater and had thrown it on the ground near him. on 15 march 2007 the applicant’s lawyer requested the investigator to order a medical examination for the applicant. the lawyer stated that the applicant had been beaten up by the police while being arrested, and also subsequently at a police station. abrasions on his legs could have been caused by a fall. the applicant did not appeal against that decision but continued to allege, before the courts which were dealing with his criminal case, that he had been ill-treated by the police at the time of his arrest. however, the applicant stated that he wished to remain silent. the applicant’s lawyer asked to watch the tape. the applicant asked for b. to be found and examined as a witness. he described how he had purchased drugs from the applicant on three occasions as part of a test purchase operation. the bill of indictment against the applicant, sent to the kirovograd kirov district court as the trial court, identified p. as one of the witnesses to be summoned in the course of the trial. it appears that during the trial the applicant asked the trial court to disclose to the defence the video recording of the first test purchase and to call and examine p. (the undercover agent), b. (see paragraph 16 above), and the forensic expert who had compiled a report stating that the applicant’s clothes and a syringe found on him on the day of the arrest contained traces of an illegal drug. on 26 june 2007 the trial court found the applicant guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment. the court of appeal went on to note that, in addition to the evidence cited by the trial court, the applicant’s guilt was also evidenced by the investigator’s report on the examination of the video recording of the test purchase (see paragraph 15 above). the parties have not provided a copy of that appeal. on 4 september 2008 a judge of the supreme court found that the applicant’s appeal was unsubstantiated, and refused to order a cassation review of the case. the trial court gave similar responses to the applicant’s new requests on 30 march 2009 and 27 may 2013. on 28 october 2008 the court of appeal also gave a similar response.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes. the applicant lives in shnogh village and earns his living from agriculture. he owned a plot of arable land in the village measuring 0.186 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family, feeding the livestock and beekeeping. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicant containing an offer to buy his plot of land. the amount of compensation offered was 134,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 290 euros (eur)), plus an additional 15% as required by law. the applicant did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that the applicant tried to obtain an alternative evaluation of his property by other companies but did not succeed. he claims that no other evaluation company was willing to make an independent evaluation of the market value of his land. according to the report, the market value of the applicant’s plot of land was estimated at amd 134,000 (approximately eur 290). in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted another evaluation report of the applicant’s property stating that, after the institution of the proceedings, oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the applicant’s plot of land was estimated at amd 137,000 (approximately eur 298). the final amount of compensation, including the additional 15% required by law, would thus be amd 157,550 (approximately eur 343). on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant a total of amd 157,550 in compensation. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, he complained that the regional court had deprived him of his property. on 19 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property based on the corrected evaluation report prepared by oliver group cjsc. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law raising similar arguments to those submitted in the previous appeal. on 17 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the land use category. the plot of land belonging to the applicants was listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones. the applicants, a family of five, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. they jointly owned a plot of arable land in the village measuring 1.622 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family and feeding their livestock. the applicants did not reply to the letter, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation offered. the company based its claim, inter alia, on a valuation report prepared at its request by oliver group llc, a licensed valuation company. according to the report, the market value of the applicants’ plot of land was estimated at amd 818,000 (approximately eur 1,780). in the proceedings before the lori regional court, the fourth applicant represented the other applicants and argued that the market value of their land had been underestimated. he requested additional time to be able to submit an alternative valuation report. it appears that the applicants were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. they claim that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of their land. on 26 september 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants a total of amd 1,035,000 in compensation. they further argued that the fact that oliver group llc had submitted two different valuation reports during the proceedings raised doubts as to the credibility of its reports, and that the court should have initiated an independent valuation of their property. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. they submitted that they had disagreed with the valuation report submitted by the other party to the proceedings, which was moreover not an expert opinion and therefore could not be admitted as evidence. on 24 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicants’ cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicants were born in 1933, 1940 and 1975 respectively and live in teghout village. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use. the applicants, a family of three, live in teghout village and earn their living from agriculture. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. according to the report the market value of the applicants’ plot of land was estimated at amd 231,000 (approximately eur 500). the final amount of compensation with the additional 15% would thus be equal to amd 301,300 (approximately eur 655). on 29 january 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case for a fresh examination. the court hearing was scheduled for 2 april 2009. on 29 april 2009 the lori regional court held a court hearing. the next hearing was scheduled for 20 may 2009, a notification to that effect was sent both to the applicants’ representative and the applicants. on 2 june 2009 the lori regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the valuation reports prepared by oliver group llc were lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs. he further argued that the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination, since the necessity for it had arisen in the course of the proceedings and the applicants had no opportunity to provide an alternative valuation themselves. on 24 july 2009 the civil court of appeal hearing was held; the applicants and their representative were not present. on 7 august 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter’s decision not to order a forensic examination was well grounded, since there was no necessity for it. according to the applicants, the decision of the court of appeal was not served on their counsel. on 9 october 2009 the counsel lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar complaints to those raised before the court of appeal. additionally, he requested to have the missed time-limits for lodging an appeal on points of law restored, explaining that the reason for late submission was the failure of the court of appeal to serve on him a copy of the decision of 7 august 2009, despite the fact that he was the applicants’ authorised representative in the proceedings. on 28 october 2009 the court of cassation declared the cassation appeal inadmissible as lodged out of time.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in cork. it was asserted on his behalf that his condition was caused by the measles vaccination administered to him in 1988 when he was 15 months old. on 5 august 2003, the high court issued a limited order of discovery addressed to the local health authority seeking all relevant records about the applicant in its possession, as well as information about the vaccine used, about any adverse effects noted at the time with this vaccine, about the manner in which the mother’s consent was obtained, and about the health of the other members of the applicant’s family. the applicant appealed the scope of the order of discovery of 5 august 2003, leading to the grant of a further limited order of discovery by the high court on 30 january 2004, addressed to all four defendants. the applicant’s mother died in december 2007. in june 2008 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the local health authority to complain that the long delays in litigating the case had caused grave prejudice to the case. the applicant’s mother had been a vital witness, and with her death essential evidence had been lost. settlement of the substantive dispute was proposed but not agreed. the high court refused this application on 12 march 2010. on the eleventh day of the trial, 19 july 2011, the judge accepted an application by the defendants to strike the case out for failure to establish a prima facie case against them. the claim against the doctor h was dismissed. the proceedings in the high court terminated on 19 december 2011. the applicant filed a notice of appeal presenting 30 grounds of appeal. following the establishment of the court of appeal in october 2014, the applicant’s case was transferred to it. outline written submissions were submitted by h in february 2015 and by the state defendants in september 2015. the court of appeal gave its judgment on 10 february 2016, dismissing the appeal. in its conclusions, the court of appeal stated that, by taking the case at its highest, the trial judge had adopted the correct approach on the question of striking the case out. the court of appeal concluded by remarking on the many legal hurdles the applicant would have had to overcome in order to succeed. it found no basis for overturning the decision of the high court. the proceedings ended on 10 may 2016 when the supreme court declined the applicant’s request for leave to appeal.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in baku. underwent a medical examination in narimanov district polyclinic no. during these examinations, no heart disease or any other disease was revealed which might prevent him from performing his military service. called his family by telephone, asking them to provide him with some belongings. out of the military barracks and tried to give him artificial respiration. did not respond, he was immediately taken to the shaki central hospital, where he was pronounced dead. on 14 july 2010 a record of an inspection of the scene of the incident (hadisə yerinə baxış protokolu) was drawn up and signed by an investigator at the zagatala military prosecutor’s office. blood and cell samples were taken from the body and sent for biological and histological forensic examinations. eighteen photographs of the body were taken during the inspection and were added to the record. the government provided the court with a copy of that record, together with black and white versions of these photographs, in which no sign of injury to the body can be seen. it appears from this photograph that there was a bruise on the left side of his neck between the ear and the shoulder and a bruise around the left eye. however, there was no mention of such injuries in the record of 14 july 2010. the experts concluded that, taking into consideration that there was no injury which might have caused the death, u.m. as for the injuries found on the body, the experts concluded that they were not related to u.m. on 25 august 2010 the investigator ordered a forensic examination. ’s previous health problems and his death. ’s body could have been sustained when he had performed physical exercises during his military service or when the soldiers had tried to resuscitate him. on 24 september 2010 the experts issued forensic report no. the court reiterated the investigator’s findings as regards the cause of the death and the origin of the injuries found on u.m. on 7 december 2010 the applicant appealed against that decision, reiterating his previous complaints.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use. the plots of land belonging to the applicant were listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones. the applicant lives in shnogh village and earns his living from agriculture and bakery production. he owned eight plots of agricultural land in the village measuring 0.420 ha, 0.890 ha, 0.904 ha, 1.206 ha, 0.780 ha, 0.900, 0.974 and 0.354 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family, gardening, beekeeping and feeding their livestock. the applicant did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that he tried to obtain an alternative valuation of his property by other companies but did not succeed. he claims that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of his land. according to the reports, the market value of the applicant’s plots of land was estimated at 3,439,650 (approximately eur 7,478) in total. he also claimed that the deprivation of his property was not in the public interest since it was aimed at securing high profits for several individuals. the representative of teghout cjsc asked the court to take into account the relatively higher amounts of the initial valuations in respect of those plots of land that were valued lower as a result of the new valuation. on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant amd 223,100 (approximately eur 485), amd 524,400 (approximately eur 1,140), amd 502,550 (approximately eur 1,093), amd 638,250 (approximately eur 1,388), amd 394,450 (approximately eur 858), amd 489,900 (approximately eur 1,065), amd 491,050 (approximately eur 1,068). and amd 308,200 (approximately eur 670) respectively in compensation for his eight plots of land. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, he complained that the regional court had deprived him of his property. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar arguments to those submitted in the previous appeal. on 18 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use. the applicants, a family of five, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. they jointly owned two plots of arable land in the village. the first plot of land measured 0.334 ha and the second one consisted of two distinct parts measuring 0.932 ha and 0.723 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family and feeding their livestock. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their plots of land. compensation of 163,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 355 euros (eur)) and amd 950,000 (approximately eur 2,065) was offered for the two plots of land respectively, plus an additional 15% as required by law. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they tried to obtain an alternative valuation of their property by another company but did not succeed. they claim that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of their land. according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ plots of land was estimated at amd 163,000 (approximately eur 355) and amd 950,000 (approximately eur 2,065) respectively. in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted other valuation reports of the applicants’ property, stating that, after the institution of the proceedings, oliver group llc had prepared corrected reports according to which the market value of the applicants’ two plots of land was estimated at amd 173,000 (approximately eur 376) and amd 986,000 (approximately eur 2,143). on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of a total of amd 198,950 for the first plot of land and amd 1,133,900 for the second plot. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, they complained that the regional court had deprived them of their property. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar arguments to those submitted in the previous appeal. on 17 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicants’ cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicants were born in 1939 and 1976 respectively and live in shnogh village. in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the land use category. the applicants, father and son, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. they jointly owned six plots of arable land in the village measuring 0.053 ha, 0.448 ha, 0.075 ha, 0.254 ha, 0.212 ha and 0.799 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family, gardening and feeding their livestock. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their six plots of land for 19,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 41 euros (eur)), amd 213,000 (approximately eur 463), amd 26,000 (approximately eur 57), amd 87,000 (approximately eur 190), amd 73,000 (approximately eur 160), and amd 339,000 (approximately eur 737) respectively plus an additional 15% on each amount offered as required by law, making the final offer amd 870,550 (approximately eur 1,893) in total. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. they claim that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of their land. according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ six plots of land was estimated at amd 757,000 (approximately eur 1,645) in total. in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted other valuation reports in respect of the applicants’ property, stating that oliver group llc had prepared corrected reports according to which the market value of the entire property was amd 1,038,000 (approximately eur 2,257). on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding h. and the applicants a total of amd 1,193,700 (approximately eur 2,595) in compensation. they further argued that the regional court, although aware that h. had died in 2007, had delivered a judgment that concerned her rights. on 3 april 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case for a fresh examination. they argued in particular that, in order to provide them with a reasonable opportunity to present their case, the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination, since such a necessity had arisen in the course of the proceedings and they had had no opportunity to provide an alternative valuation themselves. on 3 february 2010 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, stating that the applicants had failed to raise their complaints concerning the alleged inadmissibility of evidence at the first level of jurisdiction. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. they raised similar complaints to those raised before the court of appeal.
the applicant company has its seat in rovaniemi. on 31 march 2004 the competition authority lodged an application before the market court (markkinaoikeus, marknadsdomstolen), requesting that the court impose a penalty payment on the applicant company, among others, on the grounds that it had participated in a cartel from 1995 to 2000. documentary evidence, including telephone recordings were also presented to the court. according to the court, the infringements of competition law rules had lasted for more than seven years. as direct evidence was not always available, an assessment was to be made of whether indirect evidence was sufficient to prove the existence of a cartel. in the present case, the market court reached its conclusion in respect of the central government asphalt contracts by relying, inter alia, on the testimonies of eight witnesses. however, to the extent that those testimonies contained hearsay evidence, such evidence was not taken into account. as regards the regions where the applicant company was doing business (northern finland and north karelia), the market court found that the evidence in support of a cartel was not sufficient. in this context, the market court stated, inter alia, that the testimonies of two witnesses who had been heard on this matter had been based solely on what the witnesses had heard from other people, whereas other witnesses had not given evidence that was capable of substantiating the existence of a cartel for local government and private sector contracts in this particular region. in its appeal, the competition authority contested the interpretation adopted by the market court as regards the scope of the cartel, arguing that there was nothing to suggest that the territorial allocation of markets did not encompass contracts in all the above mentioned categories of works and pointing out that the exclusion of supplies of asphalt mass outside the cartel companies affected competition in the entire sector. the oral hearing itself was held between 20 and 23 april 2009, at which the court again heard six key witnesses. four of them had been called by the competition authority, and two by one of the asphalt companies. evidence of unlawful contact between economic operators will normally be only fragmentary and sparse, so that it is often necessary to reconstitute certain details by deduction. it further cited case-law of the court of justice of the european union according to which it is incumbent on the commission as competition authority to prove the infringements of competition rules and to adduce evidence capable of demonstrating to the requisite legal standard the existence of the circumstances constituting an infringement, and where such evidence had been presented the court was entitled to consider that it was for the defendant to provide another explanation for the incriminating circumstances. the court also heard six witnesses in person. on the basis of the evidence before it, the supreme administrative court found that a single nationwide cartel had existed between 1994 and 2002 in respect of central and local government as well as private sector asphalt contracts. those claims amounted to several million euros in total. the finnish state appealed against the district court judgment. also, in three of the four cases which the municipalities had brought against the applicant company appeals were lodged with the court of appeal (hovioikeus, hovrätten). on 6 september 2017 the supreme court refused the applicant’s request for leave to appeal.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in tekirdağ. the same page also included a pre-printed message which stated, inter alia, that the person being questioned had the right to remain silent and the right to choose a lawyer. it appears from the form that the applicant had refused legal assistance, since the first page of the record includes a pre-printed phrase stating “no lawyer sought” and a box next to it that is marked with a pre-printed “x”. every page of the statement form was signed by the applicant. on 17 november 2003, the applicant underwent a further medical examination at the branch of the forensic medicine institute responsible for the istanbul state security court at 10.30 a.m. the doctor who examined the applicant also observed the same abrasion, adding that the applicant had told him that it had happened when he had hit the window. however, the doctor concluded that there were no signs of ill-treatment on the applicant’s body. he stated that he did not wish to benefit from the assistance of a lawyer and that he wanted to remain silent. thus, the applicant remained silent and refused to make a statement. included a description of the suspected killer which bore no resemblance to the applicant. at a hearing held on 20 july 2005, the applicant’s lawyer stated that in accordance with article 148 § 4 of the new code of criminal procedure, in force as of 1 june 2005, statements taken by the police without a lawyer present should not be used unless confirmed by the individual before a judge or a court. the trial court did not respond to his application. at the same hearing, the applicant’s lawyer and some of the lawyers of the other co-defendants applied for time to prepare their defence submissions in reply to the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case. the applicant’s lawyer did not attend that hearing. the applicant’s lawyer was present and reiterated his previous defence submissions. and granting that lawyer time to prepare defence submissions. ’s new lawyer applied for additional time to prepare defence submissions and was granted this by the trial court. that lawyer once again asked for additional time to prepare his defence submissions. at the hearing held on 19 december 2008 the applicant’s lawyer was present and he once again reiterated his previous submissions. had been the same one that had been used in the demonstration of 20 february 1999. on 27 april 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in mankivka. the itt medical staff examined the applicant on the same day and noted that he had a bruise under his right eye. on 26 february 2008 the applicant was placed in the sizo. on 24 june 2008 the investigator dealing with the criminal case against the applicant ordered a forensic medical expert to establish the injuries the applicant had sustained between 9 and 16 february 2008. he said that he had not taken part in the applicant’s arrest or in any other investigative activities relating to him. in the course of the above inquiry, officers о., on 23 august 2010, following an additional inquiry into the applicant’s complaints, the prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against officer g., the person who had allegedly ill-treated the applicant (see paragraph 9 above), because there were no constituent elements of an offence. on 5 july 2013 the investigating officer questioned s., who had been detained with the applicant in the itt cell. on 18 february 2014 the local court upheld that decision. it was classified as a minor physical injury. on 13 june 2008 the applicant was examined by a surgeon from the emergency hospital, who diagnosed a suture sinus (a type of wound complication) following the umbilical hernia operation. he was diagnosed with omphalitis (inflammation of the navel and the surrounding area) and a suture sinus following the umbilical hernia operation in 2007 (see paragraph 6 above). on 31 july 2009 the sizo surgeon recommended that the applicant have an operation on the fistula, to be performed in a public hospital. it was recommended that he continue with the prescribed outpatient treatment. according to the ambulance team report, the person in charge of the prison escort refused to allow him to be hospitalised. he remained in that unit until 8 october 2009 and was treated for his navel fistula and inflammation of the navel. on 29 september 2009 the applicant was transported to the emergency hospital in connection with the constant pain in his abdomen. on the same date the applicant was returned to the sizo. 6 for inpatient treatment in connection with his fistula. on 9 november and 16 november 2009, in reply to the requests of the applicant’s lawyers concerning his hospitalisation, the sizo administration advised that it was not competent to decide on the applicant’s placement in an outside medical facility, and suggested that the lawyers should address the requests to the court dealing with the applicant’s case.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence in ladyzhynska colony no. on 23 february 2006 the supreme court upheld that judgment with certain changes. 5) for the duration of the criminal proceedings against him. on 25 january 2007 he was diagnosed with tuberculosis. the case file contains other evidence to indicate that 1 february 2007 was the date of the tuberculosis diagnosis. upon completion of the criminal proceedings, on 16 march 2007 the applicant was transferred to the ladyzhynska colony. on 20 march 2007 a preliminary examination of the applicant was conducted, together with laboratory tests and an x-ray. he was put under medical supervision owing to the residual effects of his tuberculosis. in particular, he had been examined on a regular basis by the colony doctors between 20 march 2007 and 26 february 2018 and prescribed treatment. as a result of each course of treatment his health had improved. according to the government, on 28 february 2012 the applicant was examined by a colony doctor who diagnosed him with chronic persistent hepatitis in remission. the government did not specify the nature of that treatment. according to the government, the applicant was supervised by the colony doctors and was prescribed with all necessary medicine and a special diet. the nature of that treatment was not specified. according to the applicant, during his detention he submitted numerous applications to the domestic authorities, including the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), seeking to obtain copies of various documents to be submitted to the court in substantiation of his application. he added that between august and november 2006 he requested that the court of appeal provide him with a copy of his indictment. his requests were refused on 8 august and 6 september 2006 on the grounds that he had already been provided with a copy of that document in the course of the criminal proceedings against him and that there was no legal requirement to meet his requests. eventually, on 21 july 2008 a copy of that document was sent to the applicant. those requests were initially refused as not having a basis in law. the applicant has not been provided with a copy of the requested documents.
the applicant was born in 1952 and died in 2013. on 21 february 2002 p., a businessman, contacted the police complaining that the applicant, who was then the director of a municipal housing management agency, was demanding money from him in exchange for permission to use some premises managed by his agency. the police went in to arrest the applicant. the marked banknotes were discovered in one of the rooms adjoining his office. these investigative steps were video recorded. on the same day the applicant wrote and signed a statement confessing to having accepted the money from p. he subsequently retracted the confession, claiming that it had been extracted under “physical and psychological pressure” from the police. the applicant was charged with fraud, apparently because he actually had no statutory authority to let the premises in question. in the course of the pre-trial investigation a certain t.v.s., the attesting witnesses made formal statements to the investigating authority describing the events of 21 february 2002 which they had observed. they stated, in particular, that they had entered the applicant’s office after the police and, when they entered, two police officers were already holding the applicant. in the bill of indictment the victim, the attesting witnesses and t.v.s. according to the government, p. testified in the course of the trial on two occasions in april 2004. on 5 october 2009 the kharkiv kominternivsky district court convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to two years’ detention in a semi-open penal institution, but waived enforcement of the sentence as it had become time-barred (see paragraph 24 below). had not been examined in the course of the trial as they failed to appear at the trial (“которые уклонились от явки в суд первой инстанции”). on 4 february 2010 the kharkiv regional court of appeal upheld the conviction, stating that there was sufficient evidence of the applicant’s guilt. there was no reason to distrust the statements of the victim and the witnesses which were corroborated by the other evidence in the file, including audio and video evidence. the court perceived no reason for the witnesses to falsely testify against the applicant. the attesting witnesses had stated that, when they entered the office, the police officers already held the applicant (see paragraph 14 above). on 9 june 2010 a supreme court judge denied the applicant leave to appeal on points of law. there were no grounds to open review proceedings.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1971, 1947 and 1954 respectively, and live in budapest. the second and third applicants, as well as the legal predecessors of the first and third applicant (ms róbertné hidas and ms miklósné kecskés) and other persons were co-owners of a plot of land of 4,847 sq. they also co‑owned a neighbouring plot of land of 423 sq. on 19 january 1998 the budapest district xxii mayor’s office (hereafter “the local authority”) ordered the partition of plot no. 223591 into two plots measuring 1,519 sq. m. in the same decision, it requisitioned (lejegyzés) the plot of 1,519 sq. 223592 and requisitioned a part of that land with an area of 123 sq. m in exchange for compensation of huf 376,200 (approximately ecu 1,700). the decisions were served on the first applicant’s legal predecessor, the second applicant, the third applicant and the third applicant’s legal predecessor, among other persons. on 13 april 1998 some of the above-mentioned owners challenged the administrative decisions in court. the legal predecessor of the first applicant and the second applicant himself were parties to the proceedings, but not the third applicant or his legal predecessor. on 30 november 2005 the budapest court of appeal overturned the first-instance judgment and ordered new administrative proceedings. it held that the local authority’s decision had been tainted by a procedural irregularity, in that the local authority’s notary (who had adopted the decision of 19 january 1998) should have abstained from taking a decision in a case in which the local authority employing him had been one of the interested parties. on 7 february 2008 it adopted a decision identical to that of 19 january 1998 (see paragraph 7 above). on 27 august 2008 the first applicant challenged the new administrative decision in court. on 11 march 2010 the budapest high court found for the applicants, quashed the administrative decision because it had been adopted on the basis of a legal provision previously annulled by the constitutional court, and ordered new proceedings. on 19 april 2016 the budapest administrative and labour court delivered its judgment. it dismissed the applicants’ action as far as the requisition’s lawfulness was concerned but quashed the administrative decision as regards the compensation amount. throughout the court proceedings, the land registry has retained a record of the dispute (perfeljegyzés). at the date of the latest information available to the court (2 october 2018), the proceedings concerning the amount of compensation due to the applicants were still pending before the domestic courts.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in ljubljana. for the relevant background to the case, see ribać v. slovenia (no. the applicant was a citizen of the republic of serbia in the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia (“the sfry”). following the dissolution of the sfry, he retained citizenship of the then federal republic of yugoslavia. he has had permanent resident status in slovenia since 1977, where he also married and had two children. on 29 november 1991 the office granted his request. on 25 october 1991 he left slovenia with the ypa and went to kraljevo. the applicant maintained that he had left with the ypa so he could fulfil the retirement conditions. on 21 december 1991 he returned to slovenia, but left again in january 1992, which he maintained was for the purpose of arranging documents for his retirement. the supreme court dismissed his subsequent appeal. his subsequent appeal was dismissed and the applicant initiated court proceedings. on 25 february 1999 the institute refused his application, holding that he had not continuously had permanent resident status in slovenia between 25 june 1991 and october 1998 (section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act). on 10 january 2003 the ljubljana labour and social court dismissed an application for judicial review lodged by the applicant. it pointed out that the applicant had fulfilled the permanent resident status requirement, but had nevertheless not claimed his pension rights by 25 june 1991. meanwhile, in october 1999 the applicant reapplied for slovenian citizenship. on 15 may 2002 the ministry of interior issued an assurance to the applicant that he would be granted citizenship if he could prove that he had been released from his current citizenship. on 19 may 2003, after lodging a new request with the institute, the applicant was granted an old-age pension as from 4 february 2003 under the pension and disability insurance act (hereinafter “the general rules”). the applicant appealed, arguing that he should have been granted the pension as from 1 may 1992. on 3 november 2003 the institute dismissed his appeal, holding that the applicant had been entitled to an old-age pension under the general rules and section 2(4) of the 1998 act as from 4 february 2003 – when he had acquired slovenian citizenship. on 30 march 2010 the constitutional court refused to accept for consideration a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant, finding that it did not concern an important constitutional issue or entail a violation of human rights which had serious consequences for him.
the applicants were born in 1988, 1982, 1984 and 1987 respectively. there, they were attacked by prison officers who severely beat them with wooden sticks and iron pipes. after the arrest the applicants were placed in a punishment cell where their beating continued. the examinations of the applicants were conducted in the presence of the investigator. it was observed that the fourth applicant had multiple haematomas on the chest, right elbow, and below the left eye; abrasions on the forehead and knee; a scratch on the right thigh; and a laceration which was slightly bleeding on the crown of the head. had multiple abrasions on his feet and hands. all of them withdrew the statements they had given during the pre-trial investigation. on 10 november 2009 all the applicants, except for the fourth one, complained to the chief prosecutor of georgia of ill-treatment on 30 march 2009 and requested the initiation of criminal proceedings in line with the requirements of article 3 of the convention. on 3 march 2010 the fourth applicant also lodged a criminal complaint of ill-treatment with the office of the chief prosecutor. in april 2011 the investigation department of the ministry of prisons conducted the first investigative interviews in connection with the applicants’ alleged ill-treatment. stated that the first and fourth applicants had surrendered without resistance or complications. the three prisoners had resisted arrest while they had been in the truck cabin. the investigator also interviewed the four applicants, who confirmed the allegations of ill-treatment they had made in their criminal complaints. in particular, they stated that they had been severely beaten with wooden sticks and iron pipes immediately after their arrest and as a result, the first, second and fourth applicants had passed out several times. they denied that they had sustained their injuries as a result of falling from the wall. 15, where, upon his arrival, he had been beaten by the governor of the prison. who was arrested together with the applicants while fleeing. the prosecutor also noted that the prison officers had been forced to use physical force against the applicants to effect their arrest, but made no conclusion as to whether the applicants had sustained their injuries therefrom. the applicants were not informed about the decision. hence, on 19 june 2014 the applicants’ lawyer sent an additional complaint.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. on 25 september 2000 the neamț county court ordered a state‑owned company to pay the applicant due salary rights. on 9 october 2001 the roman district court ordered a private person to reimburse a loan to the applicant. on 14 november 2008 the brașov county court ordered the municipality of brașov to leave a plot of land in the applicant’s full property and possession. on 3 april 2009 the applicant signed a report, drafted on the occasion of the compulsory enforcement of the above judgment, which attested to the restoration of his possession over the land in dispute by placement of metal bars on the free area and by tracing a line with white paint over the area occupied by roads and bridge pillars belonging to the municipality. on 18 july 2008 the applicant contracted a loan of 250,000 euros (eur) from a bank, with the plot of land used as guarantee. on 22 august 2011 the bank sold the land at a public auction for eur 325,000, since the applicant had failed to repay the loan within the set deadline. in accordance with domestic law, the remaining amount after the recovery of the debt must be returned to the debtor.
the first applicant was born in 1942 and at the time of the events he lived in baku. at around 4 p.m. on 3 february 2007 the mns’s agents took the first applicant by car to the area near the elmler akademiyasi metro station in baku and released him there. the first applicant refused to sign the record. he was again ill-treated by mns agents during that period. his family was not informed of his place of detention. the lawyer also indicated in his submissions that there were bruises on the first applicant’s hand, and that the first applicant had to follow a special diet and be provided with the relevant medication because of his state of health. on 8 october 2007 the first applicant lodged an action with the sabail district court, asking the court to find violations of his rights protected under articles 3, 5 and 14 of the convention. on 15 november 2007 the first applicant’s case was sent to the assize court for trial. 54/tm, that there was no objective sign of injury on the first applicant’s body. the expert also concluded that the first applicant’s pain in his left shoulder had not been noted in the conclusions of forensic report no. on 5 march 2008, following a request from the first applicant’s lawyer, a judge at the assize court asked the mns to inform the court, inter alia, whether the first applicant had been on the premises of the mns on 2, 3 and 9 february 2007, whether he had been questioned on the premises of the mns on 9 february 2007, and whether he had been subjected to a medical examination and what his diagnosis had been. on 26 december 2008 the baku court of appeal upheld the assize court’s judgment of 24 june 2008. he regularly received medical treatment in connection with the above-mentioned conditions. the initial examination did not contain references to any injury on his body. on 6 march 2009 the nizami district court partially allowed the action, holding that the first applicant’s placement in a punishment cell had been unlawful. on 16 april 2009 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal. it appears from the documents in the case file that on 7 july 2009 the first applicant again refused to be transferred to a specialised medical establishment. by a letter dated 27 august 2009, the baku city prosecutor’s office returned the documents of the criminal inquiry to the nizami district prosecutor’s office, finding that the inquiry into the first applicant’s death had not been conducted thoroughly. it further found that the first applicant’s cellmates and the doctors examining him in prison had not been questioned by the prosecuting authorities. as to the argument that the nizami district court’s decision of 6 march 2009 had not been executed, the appellate court found that the first applicant had refused to be transferred to the medical facility.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in drogobych. on 4 december 2007 criminal proceedings were instituted in respect of the burglary. before being arrested on criminal charges, all of them had been placed in administrative detention for alleged resistance to the police, in the course of which they confessed to the burglary. at about 10 a.m. on 7 february 2008, the applicant was taken to drogobych police station where the police drew up a report stating that he had committed an administrative offence, having manifested wilful disobedience to a lawful order given by police officers. they also drew up a report on the applicant’s administrative arrest, which suggested that no physical injuries had been found on him during his apprehension. according to the applicant, he was forced to make such a statement by the head of the police station. he further submitted that no medical assistance had been administered to him for the following five days, despite his complaints of severe pain in the foot. in this document he confirmed his confession to the burglary. on 12 february 2008 the applicant was taken to sambir town hospital, where he was diagnosed with a fractured right foot and received the necessary medical assistance. he alleged that the authorities had forged the documents and that the recorded interview they referred to had in fact taken place in the investigator’s room on 7 february 2018, during his administrative detention (see paragraph 13 above). the injury was assessed as a minor one and not typical of a free fall from a man’s height. she alleged that she recognised him by his hands and provided the relevant details. it further relied on the sambir prosecutor’s findings set out in his decision of 7 march 2008, which had not been appealed against by the applicant, according to which on 7 and 12 february 2008 the applicant himself submitted that he had had twisted his foot on the stairs and that he had had no complaints against the officers of sambir police station (see paragraph 37 below). on 14 february 2008 lawyer i., acting upon the instructions of the applicant’s relatives, lodged a criminal complaint with the sambir district prosecutor’s office about the applicant’s ill-treatment and requested that he be given a forensic medical examination. on 27 february and 20 march 2008 the applicant’s mother and father respectively complained to the sambir district prosecutor’s office and the prosecutor general of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody and the police’s failure to provide the applicant with timely medical assistance for his foot injury. the father requested that the applicant be given a forensic medical examination. in particular, the applicant and the police officers identified by him were questioned on a number of occasions; reconstructions of the crime scene were conducted (on 29 july and 16 august 2008) and identification parades were carried out (on 16 august and 17 september 2008). on 17, 18 and 30 september 2008 confrontation interviews between the applicant and the police officers were carried out. in the prosecutor’s opinion, the experts’ conclusions of 4 march 2008 and 28 october 2008 raised doubts as to their correctness and contradicted the material in the case file. according to the report, the applicant had a fracture of the fifth metatarsus bone of his right foot which, given the absence of external injuries in the area of the fracture, could have been sustained without the application of external force to the applicant, for example by twisting the foot while walking or running.
schedule 7 to the terrorism act 2000 (“tact”) empowers police, immigration officers and designated customs officers to stop, examine and search passengers at ports, airports and international rail terminals. however, questioning must be for the purpose of determining whether the person appears to be concerned or to have been concerned in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism. if someone fails to co-operate he or she is deemed to have committed a criminal offence and could face up to three months in prison, a fine or both. the applicant, a french national, is ordinarily resident in the united kingdom. she was therefore taken to an examination room with her youngest child. the applicant’s luggage was taken to another room and searched. in response, she informed the officers that she would only answer questions after her lawyer arrived. at around 10.00 p.m., following the conclusion of the examination, the applicant was cautioned and reported for the offence of failing to comply with her duties under schedule 7 by refusing to answer questions. the first and second charges were eventually dismissed. with respect to her convention rights, she argued that the powers under schedule 7 were in breach of articles 5 and 8 of the convention because they were neither sufficiently circumscribed nor subject to adequate safeguards to be “in accordance with the law”; or, in the alternative, that the interference with her article 8 rights was not proportionate. unlike the code of practice relating to the powers exercised under section 44 of tact (the provisions under consideration in gillan and quinton), in the present case the relevant home office code of practice and accompanying practical advice (see paragraphs 42 and 43 below) afforded a measure of legal protection against arbitrary interferences by the executive. equally, we are not persuaded that these are unfettered powers, falling foul of the test applied in gillan (strasbourg), at [76] – [77], also set out above; for our part, the ‘level of precision’ of these powers (ibid) falls and falls comfortably on the right side of the line.” as she had been returning to the united kingdom after visiting her husband, who was imprisoned in france for terrorism offences, she was not stopped and examined on a random basis. moreover, the questions asked of her were rationally connected to the statutory purpose and were in no way disproportionate. the applicant was granted permission to appeal to the supreme court, which gave judgment on 22 july 2015. with regard to the article 8 complaint, lord hughes (with whom lord hodge agreed) also considered that gillan and quinton (cited above) was distinguishable on its facts since the schedule 7 power was confined to those passing through ports of entry/exit, while the section 44 power was exercisable in relation to any person anywhere in the street. furthermore, it did not follow that the fair balance between the rights of the individual and the interest of the public would fall in the same place. however, their lordships considered port questioning and search under schedule 7 to be separate from a criminal investigation and, since the applicant had been at no time a defendant to a criminal charge, no question of a breach of her right to a fair trial could arise. it was the potential reach of the power – and not its actual use – which had to be judged. (c)  privilege against self-incrimination 38.
the applicants are entrepreneurs who obtained from the local authorities in leova licences (patenta) to offer services such as selling various types of goods at the local marketplace. the local authorities authorised the offering of services on the territory of l. from monday to saturday. another marketplace, owned by the state (u.), was open on sundays, but was situated far from the centre and was inconvenient to many sellers and the population. however, the local authorities rejected on a number of occasions such a change, invoking various sanitary, public order and other reasons. they submitted their request to l.’s owners, who on 8 february 2005 complained to the mayor of leova, referring to the decision of 31 january 2005 and requesting an authorisation of a change in the work schedule of the marketplace. on 2 march 2005 the leova city council adopted its decision no. the reasons were that work on sunday would cause traffic problems and would disturb the nearby population, including a school and a hospital. on the same day the 191 entrepreneurs working on the territory of l., including the applicants, declared a strike and decided to submit an official request for a change in their work schedule. accordingly, on 4 april 2005 the entrepreneurs submitted their request to the “leova regional council”. on the same date the applicants sent a preliminary request to the mayoralty of leova. in it, the applicants made a similar description to that in their complaint made mentioned in paragraph above. they asked for the annulment of decision no. 2.2 adopted by the city council of the leova mayoralty. after discussing the issue, the city council adopted its decision no. on 12 may 2005 the mayor of leova replied to the complaint of 4 april 2005. they argued that their rights had been affected by that decision and that its aim was the protection of u.’s interests. they annexed copies of the preliminary request addressed to the mayoralty, of their complaint made on 4 april 2005 to the leova city council, and of the reply of the mayor’s office of 12 may 2005 (see the preceding paragraph). on 5 july 2005 the leova district court found in favour of the entrepreneurs. therefore, article 14 of the law on administrative proceedings (see paragraph 17 below) had not been observed since the complaint had to be submitted first to the authority which had adopted the impugned decision. the court added that the applicants no longer had the right to complain against the decision of 2 march 2005.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lived in budva. on 8 october 2009 the applicant’s brother was murdered in belgrade, serbia. on 29 april 2013 x was murdered in an ambush in belgrade by 15 shots. on an unspecified date between 18 and 26 july 2013 the applicant was arrested in montenegro. the same day the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention as of 8 april 2014, for one month at most, on reasonable suspicion (osnovana sumnja) that he had committed an aggravated murder through incitement, the penalty for which was ten years of imprisonment or more. the court relied on the same reasons and found that there was no violation of article 5 of the convention. on 17 october 2014 the high court extended the applicant’s detention “until a further decision of the court”, on the basis of article 175 § 1(4) of the cpc. it considered that the high court’s reasoning was clear and detailed, the only exception being the finding that the applicant could abscond, which was an obvious error (omaška), but it considered it of no importance for the lawfulness of his detention. he submitted that his detention had not been reviewed after a 30-day period and that therefore it had been unlawful as of 15 november 2014. on an unspecified date, apparently between 25 december 2014 and 8 january 2015, the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. 207; clooth v. belgium, 12 december 1991, series a no. the applicant’s detention was further extended on 15 january, 30 january, 2 march, 2 april, 4 may, 4 june, 6 july, 6 august, 10 september, 9 october, 9 november and 9 december 2015, 11 january, 11 february, 11 march, 11 april, 11 may, 13 june, 15 july, 25 july, 1 september, 4 october and 4 november 2016. on 29 january 2015 the high state prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant for aggravated murder through incitement and for criminal association. on 13 february 2015 the high court returned the indictment, seeking further investigation. on 22 july 2016 the high state prosecutor in podgorica issued a third indictment against the applicant for aggravated murder through incitement and for criminal association. on 19 october 2016 the indictment was returned for further investigation. it would appear that this constitutional appeal is still pending. on 9 december 2016 the applicant’s detention was revoked and he was released. the court took into account the length of detention thus far, the fact that the indictment had been returned for the third time, and that it was uncertain when and if at all it would come into force, and held that the applicant should not bear the consequences of that. on 13 april 2017 the high court terminated the proceedings (obustavio postupak) due to the applicant’s death.
the applicants were born in 1955 and 1948 respectively. the first applicant died on 29 august 2018. the second applicant lives in st petersburg. on 24 october 2012 the kirovskiy district court of st petersburg granted the second applicant’s application and deprived k.o.v.-s. furthermore, there was a disagreement as to whether m. should start school in september 2013. the applicants at that stage supported their decision. from february to april 2013 mr and ms z. underwent training courses for individuals wishing to adopt a child left without parental care. on 4 july 2013 m. moved in with mr and ms z. 24. while the first applicant did not have any contact with the child after that, the second applicant continued communicating with m. until november 2014. on 25 november 2013 the second applicant submitted to the deputy head of the local administration of the municipal entity krasnenkaya rechka his agreement to m.’s adoption by mr and ms z. he expressed his wish for the adoption case to be heard in his absence. on 16 march 2015 the district court granted the second applicant’s application. meanwhile, on 28 may 2015 the first applicant applied to the district court to have the procedural time-limit for lodging her appeal against the adoption judgment of 26 november 2013 restored. however, on 14 july 2015 the district court dismissed her application. on 10 september 2015 the city court upheld the above decision on appeal. on 18 april 2014 the administration of the municipal entity krasnenkaya rechka submitted that the girl needed a calm psychological atmosphere; that she perceived the situation around her as tense and anxious; and that she did not understand the conflict between the applicants themselves and between the first applicant and the girl’s adoptive parents. on 21 january 2015 an expert of the istina independent expert organisation gave her opinion that the child considered and called mr and ms z. her parents. however, since the girl retained the positive image of her grandmother and expressed her wish to communicate with her, it was possible to establish a contact arrangement, which would provide for an obligatory preparatory stage, including reconciliation between the relatives. 8 of 20 april 2006 (see paragraphs 54, 55 and 68 below), the city court held that the first applicant had not applied for continued post-adoption contact with her granddaughter within the adoption proceedings, for which reason this issue had remained unexamined by [the district court examining the adoption case] and no reference had been made in the adoption judgment regarding continuation of family ties between the first applicant and her granddaughter after her adoption. on an unspecified date in 2015 the second applicant instituted court proceedings against mr and ms z., seeking to oblige them not to thwart his contact with his granddaughter m. and to have the contact schedule with the latter determined pursuant to article 67 of the family code. consequently, the district court discontinued the proceedings.
on 18 july 2006 a local daily newspaper, the kostroma chronometer (хронометр-кострома) published in issue no. the article read, in so far as relevant, as follows:
“in the midst of the corruption scandals rocking the region, ‘the red house’ is trying to save face at all costs. the first episode of the series, ‘there is no corruption in the regional administration’ was released in 2002, when a criminal investigation was initiated against d.s., in spite of the serious nature of the criminal charges brought against his deputy, governor v.sh. persisted and for a long time refused to dismiss from office the civil servant who had tainted his reputation. on 28 july 2006 the administration of the kostroma region and v.sh., the judgment read, in so far as relevant, as follows:
“analysing the article’s contents as a whole and the information therein disputed by the claimants, the court concludes that ... the expression ‘to save face’ referring to the corruption scandals in the region and endeavours of the administration of the kostroma region is not defamatory for the reason that the criminal prosecution of the heads of the region’s executive bodies and unitary enterprises was a known fact. all these events attracted public attention and drew wide public response in the region, regardless of articles in the press. ’s attempts to shield, at all costs, the actions of his subordinate d.s., who was facing criminal charges, have not been confirmed [as truthful] in the course of the court hearing. sent to federal judge m. a petition seeking termination of the criminal proceedings against d.s. ... taking into account legal norms in force. ‘at all costs’ [всеми силами] means [according to the dictionary] by all means and in every manner. was trying to prove to the court that [his deputy] d.s. had not been involved in the crimes he had been accused of and that he was trying to help him escape criminal responsibility at all costs. this expression describes a person who, for the sake of personal or narrowly interpreted institutional interests, does not want to wash his dirty linen in public [and] wishes to maintain decency and a good reputation by any means possible. the defendants failed to provide evidence that would objectively demonstrate that, when sending the petition concerning the termination of the criminal case against d.s., on 11 december 2006 the regional court rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 5 october 2006 in full. however, if personal opinions, judgments or appraisements contain statements which tarnish a person’s honour, dignity and reputation, they must be truthful. tried to shield his subordinate at all costs, attempting to uphold ‘the honour of the regiment’, and proof of that [statement] is given later’.”
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ulyanovsk. the applicant’s account of subsequent events at the police station is the following. and m., who requested that he confess to the robbery. the applicant refused to sign any confession statements. the applicant was threatened with physical retaliation if he complained about their conduct. at 7.20 a.m. on 17 june 2007 investigator a.i. on 18 june 2007 the gagarinskiy district court of moscow remanded the applicant in custody. 33 at the request of the on-duty officer of the kotlovka district police station. he was diagnosed with multiple contusions and abrasions on his head, chest and upper limbs. according to records from the ivs and iz-77/2, of 17 and 21 june 2007, respectively, the applicant had multiple contusions and abrasions on his head, chest and upper limbs. the applicant appealed against the investigator’s decisions of 24 february 2008 and 2 may 2009. and m. had been examined during his criminal trial and dismissed as unconfirmed. on 6 june 2011 the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and fully endorsed the first‑instance court’s decision. at trial, the applicant pleaded not guilty. he stated that on 16 june 2007 he had been arrested, driven to a police station and physically assaulted by police officers. it relied mainly on the investigator’s refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers of 14 september 2007 (subsequently overruled), noting there was no objective information showing that physical violence had been used against the applicant. the applicant’s co-accused, k., did not confirm his confession statements at the preliminary investigation, explaining that he had given them because police officers had physically assaulted him and had made him see the applicant’s beatings. the trial court dismissed his arguments and based its judgment on k.’s confession statements given at the preliminary investigation and other evidence. the government submitted statements collected by lieutenant colonel s. from the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs in moscow on 17 november 2016 from police officer m. and investigator a.i., presently an investigator of the department for the fight against organised crime for the south-west administrative circuit of moscow, denied any unlawful conduct and ill‑treatment in respect of the applicant after the applicant’s arrest in 2007.
the applicant was born in 1963 and is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 august 2008 the applicant was arrested in orel on suspicion of assault and rape. орла и орч увд по орловской области) subjected him to ill-treatment to force him to confess to the crimes. on 15 august 2008 the orel inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee for the orel region (“the investigative committee”) ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant. it began on 15 august 2008 and was completed on 29 august 2008. 2378/5a), the applicant had the following injuries: (i) three scratches on his right cheek; (ii) two bruises on his neck; (iii) two bruises on his chest; (iv) two bruises on his back; (v) eleven bruises and an abrasion on his right upper limb; (vi) nine bruises and an abrasion on his left upper limb; (vii) an abrasion on his right lower leg; (viii) an abrasion on his left hip; and (ix) an abrasion on his left buttock. according to the expert, the applicant’s injuries had been caused by blunt objects with a limited surface area one to three days before the examination and had not caused any actual bodily harm to the applicant. according to the ivs (temporary detention centre) medical records, the applicant complained about headache and pain in the back when he was placed in the ivs on 16 august 2008, after being examined at the traumatology centre of the orel town hospital and diagnosed with contusion to the soft tissues of the head and closed craniocerebral injury (with a question mark). on 19 august 2008 he complained about headache and dizziness, and had abrasions on the face, forehead, wrists and left elbow, which – according to him – he had received at the severnyy district police station the day before. on 18 august 2008 the applicant lodged complaints with the severnyy district prosecutor’s office of orel and the investigative committee against the police officers, requesting that they be prosecuted. those refusals were systematically overruled by the higher authority within the investigative committee as premature, unsubstantiated and based on incomplete inquiries, and the investigation authorities were ordered to carry out additional inquiries. the refusals were issued and overruled on the following dates:
 
refusal no. issued on:
overruled on:
(i)
19 december 2008
18 february 2009
(ii)
27 february 2009
12 may 2009
(iii)
26 june 2009
date unknown
(iv)
21 august 2009
6 may 2010
(v)
16 may 2010
19 october 2010
(vi)
29 october 2010 15. according to the police officers, the applicant had fallen before his arrest (being drunk) and at the ivs detention centre, and had inflicted injuries on himself at the police station. the applicant denied the police officers’ allegations of self-inflicted injuries and stated that he had signed the explanation about allegedly falling before the arrest under the threats of continued ill‑treatment from police officers s.d. the most recent refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers of 29 october 2010 maintained the findings made in the previous refusals (for example, the refusal of 26 june 2009) that the police had lawfully applied force during the applicant’s arrest, that the applicant had attempted to inflict injuries on himself, which was coherent with the forensic medical expert’s conclusion that the injuries, except for the injuries on the back, had been within the reach of his hands. by alleging the police ill‑treatment the applicant had tried to escape prosecution and to blacken the police officers’ honour and dignity. on 16 april 2009 the zavodskiy district court of orel convicted the applicant of physical assaults and rapes involving three women victims, and sentenced him to thirteen years and five months’ imprisonment. at trial, the applicant denied his guilt and complained about the police ill-treatment. on 9 june 2009 the orel regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the trial court’s conclusions.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is serving a sentence of imprisonment in tavda, sverdlovsk region. regard was had to the gravity of the charges and the risk that the applicant might obstruct the establishment of the truth. on 23 may 2006 the dzerzhinskiy district court of nizhniy tagil (“the district court”) rejected the applicant’s complaint. on 5 september 2006 the applicant was served with a bill of indictment and the case was submitted to the regional court for trial. according to them, when they shouted that they were the police the applicant tried to reach for a bag containing a razor blade. according to the applicant, when the officers entered the room where he was sleeping they immediately dragged him on to the floor and started kicking and beating him with their gun stocks. at 5.10 a.m. on the same day the applicant was taken to the perm regional hospital, where an x-ray was carried out which revealed fractures to his eighth and ninth ribs on the left side. the fractures were bound and the applicant was found fit for detention. the use of force and special means (handcuffs) on the applicant was found lawful. on 21 march 2006, during his medical examination at yekaterinburg sizo-1, the applicant was diagnosed with fractures to the eighth and ninth ribs on his left side. on 29 march 2006 the applicant complained to a prosecutor in nizhniy tagil that he had been ill-treated during his arrest. on 17 april 2006 an investigator of the district prosecutor’s office refused to open a criminal case against the officers who had participated in the applicant’s arrest, stating that the existence of constituent elements of a crime in their actions had not been made out. in their report of 15 february 2013 the medical experts concluded that on the basis of the available documents they could not determine the time when the applicant’s ribs had been broken. the additional expert report dated 30 april 2013 also stated that the time when the injuries had been inflicted could not be established. he noted, in particular, that at the regional hospital the applicant had explained that he had received his injuries when he had fallen in the street on 18 march 2006. according to the applicant, on numerous occasions between 14 april and 6 september 2006 he was taken from sizo-3 to the dzerzhinskiy police station in nizhniy tagil, where he was threatened in order to make him cooperate with the investigating authority. an additional pre-investigation inquiry was ordered. on 9 january 2013 a chief investigator of the dzerzhinskiy district investigation division took a decision refusing to institute criminal proceedings. on 24 june 2016 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal. on 17 june 2013 the court sent the applicant a letter containing the government’s comments on the applicant’s claims for just satisfaction and their further observations on the case.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in carate urio (como). the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant is a well-known italian journalist. at the material time, specifically from january 2007 until 15 july 2008, he was the editor-in-chief of libero, a national daily newspaper that sold around 125,000 copies per day. on 17 february 2007 one of the main italian newspapers, la stampa, published an article covering the story of a thirteen-year old girl who had undergone an abortion. later that day it was reported that there had been no pressure placed on the teenager, and that she had decided alone to terminate the pregnancy. on 18 february 2007 two articles were published in libero concerning the events involving the teenager. the law is stronger than life” (il giudice ordina l’aborto. it was worded as follows:
“a teenager from turin has been forced by her parents to [have an abortion] ... the magistrate has heard the parties and has applied the law – the law! – ordering the compulsory abortion ... she did not want. she struggled ... [n]ow the young mother (you are still considered as a mother even if your son died) is hospitalised as mentally ill. filed a criminal complaint against the applicant and a.m. with the milan district court. the applicant was ordered to pay a fine of 5,000 euros (eur), damages in the sum of eur 10.000 and costs in the sum of eur 2,500 (to be paid jointly with a.m.), with publication of the judgment in libero. it concluded: (i) that both articles contained false information, and (ii) that the content of both articles had severely damaged the reputation of the victim, clearly overstepping the boundaries of the applicant’s right to freely impart information. in its judgment of 17 june 2011, filed in the relevant registry on 24 june 2011, the milan court of appeal quashed the first-instance judgment in part. it pointed out that the articles at issue had reported false information, since the thirteen-year old girl had decided alone to terminate the pregnancy. in addition, the damages were also increased from eur 10,000 to eur 30,000. in particular, the court of cassation sought to justify the imposition of a custodial sentence by arguing that there were exceptional circumstances in the case. by a decision of 30 november 2012, filed in the relevant registry on the same date, the milan court responsible for the execution of sentences (tribunale di sorveglianza di milano) ordered the applicant to serve his sentence under house arrest (pericolo di fuga), on the grounds that there was no risk that he might abscond. the applicant spent twenty-one days under house arrest, starting 30 november 2012 until 21 december 2012, when he was released (see paragraphs 20-22).
the applicant was born in 1992 and is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant was a student at the azerbaijan state university of economics at the time of the events. he was also a civil society activist and was one of the founders of free youth, a non‑governmental organisation established in 2011. the demonstrations were organised through social media and the information about them was disseminated through social media and the press. the nida civic movement, a non-governmental organisation established by a group of young people, played a key role in the organisation and conduct of the above-mentioned demonstrations. 20589/13 and 7 others, 6 april 2017; bayramov v. azerbaijan, nos. a number of video performances of a “harlem shake” dance by different groups of people were prepared in azerbaijan and uploaded to the youtube video-hosting website. the applicant did not dance and just observed those who were dancing. there is no document in the case file indicating that the video recording in question was uploaded to youtube by the applicant. it represents seven individuals dancing together in a park. in the back of the scene, one person is dancing in a close proximity to a bronze statue, making sexually suggestive movements. the applicant was questioned twice as a witness within the framework of those criminal proceedings prior to his arrest. on the same day the nasimi district court found the applicant guilty under article 298.2 (violation of the rule regulating the organisation and holding of gatherings) of the code of administrative offences and sentenced him to fifteen days’ administrative arrest. 12854/13, 28750/13 and 76329/13, 20 july 2017). the court cited the risk of his absconding and reoffending, together with the nature of the criminal act, and justified its decision as follows:
“having examined the request with the [aid of the] material in the case file and having heard the submissions of those who have been present at this court hearing, and taking into account the fact that there is a likelihood that the accused, ilkin bakir oglu rustamzade, will abscond from the investigation and reoffend, as well as the nature of the criminal act attributed to him, the court considers that he should be remanded in custody.” he claimed, in particular, that his pre-trial detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 28 june 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding it unfounded. on 4 july 2013 the baku court of appeal upheld the first-instance court’s decision. on 19 september 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, upholding the nasimi district court’s decision of 16 september 2013. on 6 may 2014 the baku court of serious crimes found the applicant guilty on all counts and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment.
he was a member of the national assembly (milli majlis), elected in 2005. on 16 march 2007 the national assembly was hearing a 2006 cabinet of ministers report presented by the prime minister. according to the applicant, when he was given an opportunity to ask a question, he began to deliver a speech criticising the cabinet of ministers. after a few sentences his microphone was cut and he was not allowed to finish his speech. this prompted the applicant to engage in a verbal argument with the speaker. allegedly responded by continuing to shout curses directed at the applicant and his close family members, and a heated argument between the applicant and f.a. the applicant, using gestures, invited f.a. to follow him so that they could settle their differences outside the assembly room and began heading towards the exit. approached him from behind and punched him in the face. but was stopped by several other members who had quickly intervened to stop the fight. by a decision of the prosecutor general’s office of 19 march 2007, the applicant was formally charged with criminal offences under articles 132 and 221.2.2 of the criminal code. to experience symptoms of a closed craniocerebral trauma. the testimonies of a number of members of parliament and parliamentary officials who had witnessed the incident; and the medical forensic report of 17 april 2007. on 24 july 2007 the baku court of appeal held a preliminary hearing. the court dismissed the applicant’s application with regard to the latter as follows:
“the court’s panel, after having briefly deliberated on the bench,
decides
to ensure the participation of [f.a.] the applicant lodged a cassation appeal reiterating his complaints. although he continuously complained about this to various domestic authorities, no measures were taken to adequately address his medical problems. his request to be transferred to a specialised medical institution was granted only after he had gone on hunger strike. on 28 march 2007 the applicant underwent an x-ray examination, which did not reveal any pathology in his thorax. on 16 august 2007 the department refused the applicant’s request.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. at about 7 p.m. on 4 january 2003 a grey uaz minivan (tabletka) allegedly belonging to the gudermes district department of the interior (“the gudermes rovd”) parked near the applicants’ house in oiyskhar settlement, chechnya. on 28 april 2005 the deputy gudermes district prosecutor overruled the decision of 21 march 2003 and resumed the proceedings to question mr ismail makhmudov’s neighbours and check if he had been apprehended during a special operation. on 7 april 2008 the proceedings were resumed. he also mentioned that the former head of the local police, mr u., had told him that at about 8 p.m. on 4 january 2003 he had seen a uaz minivan and several persons in military uniforms and balaclavas near the applicants’ house. there is no information about further developments in the case. on 31 may 2002 the district prosecutor opened criminal case no. 59116 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). on 19 april 2008 the investigation was suspended again. they complained that the investigators’ failure to act in a timely manner had not been examined by the district court, and that the court hearing had been held in their absence. immediately after the abduction the applicants informed the authorities of what had happened and requested that a criminal case be opened. subsequently, the proceedings were resumed on 17 may and 16 november 2011 and 28 february 2014, and were then suspended on 6 june and 21 december 2011 and 19 march 2014 respectively. on 14 june 2003 the wife of mr alikhan satuyev, ms l.u., on 7 january 2003 the applicant was granted victim status in the criminal proceedings and questioned. it was then resumed on 26 may 2004 to question the applicant’s neighbours and “intensify operative search measures”. on 16 and 25 june 2005, 15 september 2008 and 20 april 2009 the applicant contacted the grozny town prosecutor, the chechen parliament, the russian investigative committee and the head of the chechen parliament, seeking their assistance in the search for her son. on 4 june 2010 the investigators resumed the proceedings. the first applicant is the wife of mr islam asukhanov, who was born in 1968. the next morning the first applicant had told her that her husband, mr islam asukhanov, had been abducted. on 5 august 2009 the first applicant requested that the investigation be resumed and that she be allowed to access the case file.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in noviy engenoy. fished about 40 to 60 metres from each other and about two hundred metres or so from mr magamedov. they went in that direction and saw six or seven men in military camouflage uniforms next to their car and heard them speaking russian. then they saw the servicemen trying to push the car into the pond and, when their attempt failed, set it on fire. they knocked at the door of the house of a local resident, mr kh.v., returned to the pond, accompanied by the police. were taken by the police to the prosecutors’ office and questioned about the incident. 61010 into the murder of mr vakhid magomedov. they reiterated the statements that they had previously given. their submissions were similar: both of them stated that on the morning of 1 april 2006 they had gone to the lake to fish. on the way there they had stopped to change a flat tyre when two apcs with russian-speaking servicemen had pulled over. on 2 april 2006 the investigators also questioned a resident of sary‑su, mr kh.v., on 2 june 2006 the investigators suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrators. neither the applicant, nor her relatives were informed thereof. between february 2007 and september 2009, the criminal case file remained with the chechen prosecutor’s office to be checked by the prosecutor’s superiors. the brother of vakhid magamedov, who stated that he had not witnessed the incident and had only learnt of his brother’s murder on 2 april 2006. on 10 and 13 december 2009 the applicant again wrote to the investigators and the chechen prosecutor’s office asking for information about the progress in the investigation and the outcome of the examination of her previous request, and complaining that she had not been kept informed about progress in the proceedings. on 15 january 2010, in reply to the applicant’s request for information, the investigators informed her that they had suspended the proceedings on 7 november 2009. on 1 november 2014 the investigators questioned mr kh.m., on 20 may 2015, in reply to a request lodged by the applicant for information, the investigators informed her that on 20 may 2015 the proceedings had been suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is serving a sentence of life imprisonment in kyiv pre-trial detention centre no. in the first image, the applicant could not be seen; in the second image his head was visible. when the central heating was turned off, the temperature inside the cells was extremely low. the cells were divided into those designated for inmates with active mycobacterium tb (“mbt+”) and those with inactive mbt (“mbt-”). the total energy value of a daily portion of food was 3,198 calories. the kherson sizo was located in an old building in a dilapidated state. 392 measured 22.8 square metres and was equipped with ten beds. 61, which had the status of a prison tb hospital. sputum culture and bacterial sensitivity tests showed that he had developed resistance not only to first-line anti-tb drugs (isoniazid, streptomycin and ethambutol) but also to second-line ones (kanamycin, ethionamide and para-aminosalicylic acid). he was also suffering from respiratory difficulties. according to the records in the applicant’s medical file, from july 2010 to december 2014 he underwent forty-four bacteriological sputum tests; thirty general blood analyses (he reportedly refused to undergo tests on fourteen occasions); fifty-six general urine analyses (with two reported refusals); as well as x-ray examinations approximately once every three months. on 10 may 2011 the applicant was diagnosed for the first time with genito-urinary tb and was prescribed antibacterial treatment. on 2 november 2011 the regional office of the prison department wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the supply of anti-tb drugs in kherson prison no. on 2 july 2013 the applicant underwent an examination by a panel of medical experts, which established that his medical treatment for tb had failed and had no prospects of success. on 23 july 2013 the prison administration wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the decision to provide the applicant with palliative care was based on order no. it had been observed that the applicant’s medical treatment had not been able to stop the emission of tubercle bacilli for about two years, that the applicant had developed a resistance to most anti-tb drugs, and that there remained no room for any further adjustment of his treatment. on 24 february 2016 the kyiv sizo issued a medical certificate stating, in particular, that the applicant’s medical condition did not fall under the list of diseases warranting his release for health reasons. lastly, it was observed that the conditions of the applicant’s detention and the medical care arrangements afforded to him were in compliance with the applicable legal provisions. on 21 august 2014 the kherson regional court of appeal upheld that decision by a final ruling. during his post-conviction detention until 16 february 2010 the applicant was allowed to see his wife (he had no other relatives in ukraine) at short-term meetings lasting up to four hours once every six months.
a new court within the icelandic judicial system, the court of appeal (landsréttur), was established on 1 january 2018 and became operational on the same day. 15/1998, was statutorily mandated to assess the candidates for the vacant posts and deliver its assessment report on their competences to the minister of justice. the committee was composed in total of five experts: one nominated by the judicial council (dómstólaráð), one nominated by the icelandic bar association, one elected by althingi (“parliament”) and two nominated by the supreme court, one of whom acted as chairman. the application deadline was 28 february 2017. by email of 16 may 2017, the permanent secretary of the prime minister’s office informed lawyers in the prime minister’s office, and the ministry of justice working on the matter, that the minister of justice had approved the proposed procedure set out in the memorandum of the secretary-general of the parliament. the assessment report did not contain an internal formal ranking of the fifteen candidates, but the committee stated explicitly that the fifteen named candidates were all more qualified than the remaining applicants. lastly, he proposed that it might be wise to inform the candidates about the changed emphasis and give them an opportunity to present new information that could be relevant for the evaluation. by letter of 27 may 2017 to the chairman of the committee, the minister of justice requested further information and documents on the committee’s evaluation and the fact that the committee only made reference to the fifteen most qualified candidates and not others who had applied for the positions in the court of appeal, inter alia, with regard to the equality act no. by a letter of 28 may 2017, the chairman of the committee informed the minister on the manner in which the committee had given weight to each evaluation criterion, which had been part of its overall assessment, and explained that the same approach had been followed during his four years as chairman of the committee. who had been ranked number 18, be appointed. before the vote in parliament, the speaker stated that a proposal from the csc had been tabled in parliament to approve the minister’s fifteen candidates for the office of judge of the court of appeal. ...
it is a normal practice and an old one that many issues are taken together during a vote if it is clear that everyone will vote in the same manner or when there is no proposal for amendments on individual matters, e.g. during the second discussions about a bill of law or on parliamentary resolutions. this is referred to as the sections being “taken together” and the voting applies, or its conclusion, to each section. the court then stated that when the minister decided to propose to parliament to depart from the committee’s opinion, as the law permits, the minister’s proposal had to be based on an independent investigation of all the elements necessary to substantiate her proposal in accordance with section 10 of the administrative procedures act (see paragraph 62 below). the supreme court thus found, on the basis of the file and the facts before it, that the minister of justice had violated section 10 of the administrative procedures act for failing to substantiate her proposal to parliament with an independent investigation shedding light on elements necessary to assess the merits of the four candidates she had proposed, in comparison to the fifteen candidates considered by the committee as the most qualified. by a judgment of 23 march 2017, the district court of reykjaness convicted the applicant of the charges against him. on 6 april 2017, the applicant appealed the judgment to the supreme court and requested that his sentence be reduced. his claims were based on the ground that the procedure leading up to the appointment of a.e., in case that fails and the appointment is thus unlawful “the judge in question is not a lawful holder of judicial power and a court’s judicial rulings in which he has participated constitute a dead letter”, as is argued in [the applicant’s] observations before the supreme court. article 61 of the constitution, which preclude them from being discharged from office except by a judicial decision.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in jūrmala. on 10 february 2009 a prosecutor lodged an appeal (apelācijas protests) against the decision of 1 december 2008. the riga regional court (rīgas apgabaltiesa) instituted appeal proceedings. on 23 february 2009 the applicant received notice of the hearing, which was set to take place in four days. he asked for the hearing to be postponed so that he could prepare his defence. on 7 october 2009 that decision was upheld by the state police. on 19 october 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal with the administrative courts. he argued that on 1 december 2008 the first set of administrative offence proceedings had been terminated and that the relevant decision had taken effect. his driving licence card had been returned to him. under domestic law, decisions that had become final could not be quashed on appeal. on 20 december 2010 the administrative district court (administratīvā rajona tiesa) dismissed the appeal, noting that the decision of 1 december 2008 had been set aside by the riga regional court, whereas the judgment of 27 february 2009 revoking his right to drive vehicles had taken effect and was binding. it did not apply to prosecutors in the exercise of their right to lodge an appeal. hence, in the applicant’s case the prosecutor had been entitled to appeal against the decision of 1 december 2008 even after it had taken effect. furthermore, the judgment of 27 february 2009 had become final and was legally binding. its legality could not be reassessed in the present set of proceedings. on 23 september 2009 the police drew up an administrative offence report stating that the applicant had driven a car while disqualified and that the offence had been committed repeatedly within a year, in violation of article 1494(7) of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the repeat offence”). on 26 february 2010 the riga regional court by a final judgment upheld the finding that the applicant had committed a repeat offence. the only criterion for determining the repeated nature of the offence was whether or not the decision on the initial offence had been set aside or its legal effect suspended at the time the decision on the repeat offence was being taken. in the absence of such circumstances, the findings of the decision on the initial offence were legally binding and had to be taken into account when classifying the second offence as a repeat offence. the government did not contest this allegation.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in tbilisi. on 4 july 2004 a police officer, the head of the criminal investigation unit at the gldani-nadzaladevi district police department in tbilisi (“the district police department”), ordered a personal search of the applicant to be carried out in urgent circumstances. he again refused to sign the arrest record. the second document was a handwritten note from l.ts., he confirmed that the substance had been found in the back right pocket of the applicant’s jeans and that the applicant had stated that it belonged to him. on 5 august the two attesting witnesses were questioned again. there, they had dictated to him a text which he had signed. in addition, he had signed a hand-written report without reading it. ’s testimony before the trial court was untrue, he confirmed the official version of the search of the applicant and maintained that the latter’s personal search had been conducted immediately at the scene of his arrest. the court found that the applicant’s guilt was proven by the statements given by the two police officers who had arrested and searched him, and by the results of the personal search. ’s testimony where he had denied being present during the search. the second attesting witness to the search, who confirmed that he had been present during the search in question at the request of the police, and had seen that a yellowish substance had been discovered in the applicant’s trouser pocket. confirmed the evidence he had given before the first-instance court. he alleged that he had been subjected to psychological as well as physical pressure by the police. the two friends of the applicant were also questioned in the appeal court. had unequivocally claimed that he had not witnessed the personal search of the applicant and had been forced to sign certain documents at the police station. in support of his arguments, the defence submitted a letter from the ministry of the interior, according to which l.ts. had been working for the ministry in 1996. in connection with the search decision, they concluded that it had been taken by an authorised police officer in line with the requirements of article 67 of the ccp. on 6 march 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1973 and currently lives in vienna, austria. in 2002 the applicant purchased a flat in baku at a location near the tezepir mosque, with a living space of 17.6 sq. in 2004 the applicant carried out some renovation and construction works at the flat, as a result of which the total area of the flat became 84 sq. m, while the living space increased to 33.6 sq. on 7 march 2005 the head of yasamal district executive authority issued an order recognising the fact that by building additional rooms (living rooms, hall, kitchen, mansard, and so on), the applicant had increased the total area of her flat to 84 sq. m of which was living space and the remainder of which was auxiliary space. in july 2006 the tezepir mosque lodged a claim against the applicant with the yasamal district court, asking that the applicant be dispossessed of her title to the flat in exchange for monetary compensation, and be evicted from the flat. the tezepir mosque argued that the area where the applicant’s flat was located was within the area of works required for the renovation and development of the mosque complex, and that the applicant and her family were the only residents who had refused to relinquish their flat in exchange for the compensation offered to them. the tezepir mosque was ready to pay 100,000 united states dollars (usd) in compensation. during the court hearing, the representative of the tezepir mosque argued that the market price of comparable flats was usd 500 per sq. m, and that the applicant was only entitled to be paid for the living space of her flat (33.6 sq. it appears that, in support of this claim, he submitted copies of some sale announcements published in unidentified issues of the local newspaper. the applicant argued that the total area of her flat was 84 sq. m, that the market value of comparable flats was usd 3,000 per sq. m, and that she would sell her flat only if she was paid usd 252,000. it also referred to an order by the soviet of ministers of the azerbaijan soviet socialist republic (“the azerbaijan ssr”) dated 22 may 1986 (hereinafter “the order of 22 may 1986”), concerning renovation work on the land of the tezepir mosque and the relocation of people residing in that area to other accommodation. in deciding the amount of compensation payable, the court found that the area of the applicant’s flat was 33.6 sq. the court considered that the proposed amount of compensation was reasonable. by a separate decision delivered on the same day, the yasamal district court also ordered the immediate execution of the judgment. on 27 september and 27 december 2006 the judgment was upheld by the court of appeal and the supreme court respectively.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes. the plots of land belonging to the applicants were listed among the units of land falling within these expropriation zones. the applicants, a family of four, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture and apiculture. they also owned a beekeeper’s house measuring 69.4 square metres situated on the second plot of land. the land was used for growing crops for the family, feeding their livestock and beekeeping. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their plots of land. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they tried to obtain an alternative valuation of their property by another company, but did not succeed. the company based its claim, inter alia, on the valuations prepared at its request by oliver group llc, a licensed valuation company. according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ plots of land was estimated at amd 183,000 (approximately eur 398) and amd 304,000 (approximately eur 661) respectively. they further submitted that the valuation of their property had not been carried out correctly, since no account had been taken of the number of trees, the beekeeper’s house situated on the second plot of land, and a number of other factors that should have affected the calculation of the amount of compensation. according to the new valuations, the market value of the applicants’ second plot of land including the building was estimated to be amd 1,728,000 (approximately eur 3,760). as to the first plot of land, it was stated that oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the property was amd 189,000 (approximately eur 410). the final amounts of compensation for the two plots of land, including the additional 15% required by law, would thus be equal to amd 217,350 (approximately eur 473) and amd 1,987,200 (approximately eur 4,320) respectively. on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of amd 217,350 for the first plot of land and amd 1,987,200 for the second plot of land. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, they complained that the regional court had deprived them of their property. on 18 june 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment finding, inter alia, that the latter had struck a fair balance between the applicants’ interests and the legitimate aim pursued, and that the market value of the property had been properly determined, on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.
the applicant was born in 1946 and currently lives in berlin, germany. in 2005 he was an english teacher in a school in kyiv, ukraine. at that time he entered into private relations with a married woman living in kyiv. her husband was indicated as the father in the child’s birth certificate. in 2007 a dna test was performed proving that the applicant was in fact the father of the child. the applicant was not prevented from having access to the child by her mother, who accepted financial support from him on a monthly basis. the applicant bought a car for the child’s mother. in 2011 he wrote a will bequeathing all his property to the child. the applicant had regular contact with the child until 2015 when the mother informed the applicant that she had divorced her husband and that she had decided to marry a german national and move with the child to germany. as the applicant opposed the decision to emigrate to germany, the mother denied him access to the child and prevented him from communicating with the child. in june 2015 the applicant initiated proceedings before the darnytskyy district court of kyiv (“the district court”) seeking recognition of his paternity and to have the child’s birth certificate amended accordingly. during the hearing the mother of the child admitted that the applicant had provided regular financial support and had taken part in the upbringing and education of the child. the applicant contended that he had delayed his lawsuit because he had not wished to disturb the child’s family situation and he had not been prevented from communicating with the child on a regular basis until 2015. only when the child’s mother had decided to emigrate to another country with the child had he decided to seek formal recognition of his paternity. on 17 november 2015 the district court allowed the applicant’s claims, declaring him the father of the child and ordering the amendment of the child’s birth certificate. the district court considered that the applicant had missed the time-limit for valid reasons. it took into account the applicant’s argument that he had not wished to disturb the family and cause any harm to the child with a lawsuit during the long period when the mother had in fact assisted him in having regular access to the child. on 3 february 2016 the kyiv court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. the applicant had become aware of his paternity in 2007 when the dna test had been performed (see paragraph 6 above); however he had applied to the court in 2015 (see paragraph 8 above), which had been too late. on 13 july 2016 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, without examining whether the applicant had provided valid reasons which could justify his non-compliance with the time-limit set out in article 129 § 2 of the family code.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in beiuş. and had a daughter with him, born in 2011. and the applicant filed for divorce and each sought sole custody of the child. a representative of the bihor directorate general for social welfare and child protection (“the child‑protection authority”) was also present at these meetings. had not opposed the enforcement and that it had been the child who had refused to go with her mother. it appears that neither the applicant nor the bailiff appealed against this decision. on 6 october 2014 the bailiff lodged a criminal complaint against i.t. but the child who had opposed the enforcement. refused, but eventually he brought the child out. the atmosphere was tense, the parents made reproaches to each other in front of the child and they spoke to each other in a raised voice. after the child sat for a while with the mother, [the bailiff] asked the child if she wished to leave with her mother. although the child did not show an aversion towards her mother, she refused to leave with her.” on 8 december 2014, at the bailiff’s request and based on the report of the visit of 4 november 2014, the child protection authority applied for mandatory counselling under article 912 of the code of civil procedure, with a view to re-establishing a relationship between the applicant and the child. the psychologist met the parents separately and together and met the child. as the applicant did not accede to his request, he refused any contact between the mother and daughter during that period. she noted that the child was well‑integrated into her father’s family, was emotionally attached to her father, stepmother and stepbrother, and was afraid that the applicant would come and take her away during the counselling meetings. on 21 may and 22 october 2015 and 16 april 2016 the applicant asked the bailiff to continue the enforcement proceedings. she also recommended parental counselling. appealed, but in a final decision of 29 september 2016 the bihor county court upheld the previous decision. the court does not deny the importance of a stable environment for the minor, including her home and the people who are part of her daily life; it considers, however, that at the present time preserving continuity does not serve the child’s interests to develop a normal relationship with both parents.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mica. who started walking alongside her and who tried unsuccessfully to engage her in conversation. in her statement to the police made later (see paragraph 17 below), the applicant described the subsequent events as follows:
after the two men went away, t.f.s. he eventually offered her money and a mobile phone if she agreed to have oral sex with him. the applicant alleged that she was threatened by t.f.s. to obey, otherwise he would use the knife he had in his possession. in a state of shock, the applicant obeyed. as no one answered, she went home and showered. later that evening she talked to her mother and to a friend, explaining to them what had happened. in the morning of 21 may 2008 the applicant went to the local police in mica accompanied by her husband and lodged a criminal complaint. the same day the police interrogated i.l., she concluded that ever since the attack she had been in a constant state of distress and was afraid to leave the house, fearing that the attacker would come and find her because she had dared to complain to the police. who confirmed that she had seen the applicant arriving at the police station on 20 may 2008 to lodge a complaint of rape and that she had seen the applicant leaving, as the police station was closed. had threatened her that he would use a knife, and had violently grabbed her by the arm and throat, and that that was why she had complied with his orders. on 24 february 2009 the chief prosecutor rejected the applicant’s complaint, finding that the evidence available did not suggest that physical force had been used by t.f.s. to have sexual intercourse with the applicant. had constantly threatened that he would use the knife he had with him. finally, the court advised the prosecution to take into account the fact that t.f.s. had previously been convicted of rape and therefore may have been aware of the legal requirements for the existence of the crime of rape. more specifically, in the absence of a connection between the injuries to the applicant’s arm and the alleged physical coercion, and in the absence of any injuries specific to the crime of rape in the genital area, the alleged physical coercion had not been proved.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in oslo. she is a well-known lawyer who mainly deals with criminal and child custody cases. there was no editorial content in the forum; all content was user-generated. at 12.32 p.m. the following day another comment was made, in which the poster claimed to “know someone who knows someone” who had been “lucky to have shagged” the applicant (“sexy hun da! the following comment was made the next day: “i read about this case briefly several weeks ago. leste om denne saken såvidt, for flere uker siden. to which another commenter responded with the wordplay: “it is hegnar’s thing [(“saken til hegnar”)] which is growing.” mr hegnar received a copy of the letter and in an email to the press complaints commission on 9 november 2010 stated, inter alia, that hegnar online was a separate newspaper with its own editor, unrelated to kapital. mr b. from hegnar online responded at 12.45 p.m. the same day, saying that he was sorry that comments in breach of their guidelines had not been deleted, and that he had now deleted the comments he had found. on 23 november 2010 the press complaints commission examined the applicant’s complaints against kapital and finansavisen (see paragraph 6 above), and found that both publications had breached the code of conduct for journalists (vær varsom-plakaten): kapital for their use of a misleading headline (case no. in an email the same day mr h. replied that he had also been contacted by the radio editor directly on 3 december 2010 and, on checking, had seen that the comments had by then already been deleted. on 7 april 2011 the applicant’s counsel sent a letter to hegnar online stating the applicant’s intention to instigate civil proceedings against hegnar online and the editor, mr h., because comments 1 to 3 had been defamatory and contrary to article 246 of the penal code (see paragraph 43 below). hegnar online and mr h.’s counsel responded in a letter of 28 april 2011. in any case, editorial responsibility could not apply to the situation before the editor had become aware of the comments, and in the instant case they had been removed as soon as mr h. had become aware of them. furthermore, it had not expressed disdain or disapproval of her, so could not harm her honour (æresfølelse) under article 246 of the penal code (ibid.). the high court heard the case on 10 and 11 september 2013. this meant that controls needed to be carried out subsequently, regardless of whether it concerned content subject to editorial responsibility or a website with only user-generated content. this had clearly been an adequate reaction. however, the high court discussed whether the letter from the applicant’s counsel to the press complaints commission on 8 november 2010 (see paragraph 10 above) implied that mr hegnar should have initiated a deletion process at that time. the defendants had claimed nok 231,980 (approximately eur 24,416), but the high court found that as their counsel charged a high hourly rate, appropriate for a specialist lawyer, this should have been reflected in a lower amount of hours.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in ljubljana. the applicant was a member of the supervisory board of company a from 11 november 2013, with a four-year term. on 12 march 2014, the chairman of the supervisory board of company a resigned: following this the supervisory board had only three members (of the required statutory six members). on 13 may 2014 a session of the supervisory board of company a was held. it would appear that a resolution was passed dismissing the chair of the management board. of their membership, and appoint provisional members. who acted as opposing parties (nasprotna udeleženca). it requested the court to proceed to a decision without delay, without notifying the opposing parties of the proceedings and without holding a hearing. referring to company p’s submissions and the case file in the proceedings concerning nullity of the resolution of 13 may 2014 (see paragraph 10 above) the court established that one member of the supervisory board had not been voluntarily present at the session of the supervisory board on 13 may 2014 (see paragraph 9 above) because of the conduct of the two remaining members of the supervisory board. ’s conduct, had agreed with it, and had fully cooperated with her. it considered the case to be of an urgent nature, because company a was at risk, and the supervisory board with the applicant and t.h. the court noted that the decision was effective immediately, and that any appeal would not stay its execution. on 24 june 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that he had been unlawfully denied the opportunity to participate in the proceedings. he referred to, inter alia, section 4 of the non-litigious civil procedure act (see paragraph 25 below). he argued that the court’s intervention was not called for and that no grounds had been given for his dismissal. he also emphasised that the protection of his reputation required that he be involved in the proceedings and able to submit evidence. on 5 august 2014 company p informed the court that, on 4 august 2014, company a had held an assembly and appointed two new members to replace the applicant and t.h. therefore, in the court’s view, even had the applicant succeeded in the appeal proceedings he could not have obtained reinstatement in his previous position. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 november 2015.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in galgiai in the vilnius region. on 22 may 2007 the applicant sold the plot of 2.2859 hectares to company s. for 2,500,000 lithuanian litai (ltl  approximately 724,000 euros (eur)). company s. had previously concluded a lease agreement (išperkamosios nuomos sutartis) with company v., by which company s. undertook to buy a plot of land selected by company v. and to transfer it to the latter. since that forest was situated in a city, it was considered a forest of national importance and could therefore only be owned by the state (see beinarovič and others v. lithuania, nos. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). the applicant, the vca and company s. disputed the prosecutor’s claim. however, on 14 april 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed the claim. accordingly, the agreements between the applicant, company s. and company v. were null and void ab initio. the court allowed the request for interim measures. the applicant lodged an appeal against the vilnius regional court’s decision of 14 april 2009 (see paragraphs 9-11 above). however, on 8 june 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the appeals and upheld the first‑instance court’s decision in its entirety. the court stated that, having found that the vca’s decision had to be annulled, it was not necessary to examine the agreements concluded between the applicant, company s. and company v. however, since the first-instance court had examined them (see paragraph 10 above), the court of appeal did so as well and upheld the findings made by the lower court. it considered that companies s. and v. had deliberately concluded a simulated agreement in order to hide their actual intentions. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, in which she argued that as her land was located in a rural area and the forest on that land was not a forest of national importance, there were no grounds to annul her property rights. as for the remaining land, the applicant was informed of the forms of restitution provided for by domestic law (see beinarovič and others, cited above, § 92) and was asked to inform the authorities of her preferred form of restitution. she also stated that she had been informed by the vilnius land management authorities that two plots of 0.08 and 0.10 hectares would be allocated to her in galgiai (see paragraphs 17 and 18 above). the decision stated that the rights to the remaining 0.3959 hectares would be restored later. the court stated that there were several candidates waiting to have their property rights restored in that area and that the applicant could not claim to have priority over them. on 30 june 2017 the nls adopted a decision to restore the applicant’s property rights by giving her 0.3159 hectares of land for the construction of an individual home. the government did not comment on that point.
the applicants were born in 1948 and 1963 and live in istanbul and ankara respectively. by a decision dated 21 december 1999 (no. lastly, the remaining 16.47% of capital was held by the public, including the applicants. on 21 december 1999 yaşarbank’s shares, which were open to the public, sold on the istanbul stock exchange at a price of 1,950 former turkish liras (trl) each. on 26 january and 18 february 2001 respectively the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu - hereinafter “the agency”) decided that yaşarbank would be consolidated under sümerbank and that the former’s banking licence would be revoked. 4491, section 14(3) provided for more detailed measures which would be implemented gradually. 4389 did not contravene article 35 of the constitution, which guaranteed the right to property. nor had the recovery plan prepared by the bank been sufficient to improve its financial situation. on 8 february 2007 the general assembly rejected an application for rectification by the main shareholders. he maintained that he had bought the shares on the stock market, relying on the financial statements of the bank, which had been supervised by the capital markets board (sermaye piyasası kurulu) and approved by independent auditing agencies. he argued accordingly that no fault could be attributed to him for yaşarbank’s transfer to the fund and that he should have received the same protection as that granted to the creditors of the bank. in that connection, he argued that the relevant legislation, in particular section 14(5) of law no. he concluded therefore that the transfer of his shares to the fund, without any compensation in return, had violated his right to property. it noted that the applicant should be considered a partner of the bank as he had owned shares in it, and that although the aim of commercial activity was to make profit, one could not remove the risk of loss from such activity. on 29 april 2004 the general assembly upheld the judgment. he maintained that he reserved the right to request compensation at a later stage. in that connection, he maintained that the deprivation of his property had resulted from the authorities’ failure to comply with their duty of supervision, and in particular the failure of the capital markets board to inform the public of yaşarbank’s deteriorating financial situation, as required by the capital markets act (law no. on 8 october 2002 the supreme administrative court rejected the second applicant’s request to refer the matter to the constitutional court. the court also dismissed the action for the annulment of yaşarbank’s takeover by the state, finding that the council of ministers’ decision to transfer the bank to the fund had been lawful. in doing so it repeated the reasoning it had provided in the first applicant’s case.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in the institution for the execution of criminal sanctions (zavod za izvršenje krivičnih sankcija; hereinafter “the iecs”) in spuž. relying on article 148 § 1(1) of the ccp, the court specified, inter alia, that there was an ongoing investigation against them and that a number of witnesses remained to be interviewed. the court relied on article 175 § 1(1) and (4) of the 2009 ccp. the expert medical witness submitted that the applicant’s illness (ulcerative colitis) was serious, requiring a special diet and specific medical treatment, the absence of which, or even small deviations, could make it worse. the same day, relying on article 175 § 4 of the ccp, the court extended the four defendants’ detention, including the applicant’s, finding that the reasons for it persisted. the applicant maintained that the cell in which he had been detained had been overcrowded, the number of inmates varying, and that he had lacked water and daily exercise. m, which, at times, he had shared with five other persons at most. m. he had also been allowed out of his room during family visits (thirty minutes per week) and during the visits of his representatives, which were not time-limited. between 15 november and 4 december 2017 the applicant was hospitalised again because his ulcerative colitis had worsened. on 13 june 2018 the doctor from the clinical centre noted that the applicant was feeling well. the next check‑up was recommended in three to four months. on 27 july 2015 the applicant requested that he be allowed the said rehabilitation treatment. on 2 september 2015 he informed the iecs that his treatment was scheduled to begin on 7 september 2015. between 4 september 2015 and 9 february 2016 the high court informed the iecs on several occasions that the costs of the applicant’s medical treatment, including for vdz, and the costs of security guards at the igalo institute, would be covered by the high court upon presentation of the relevant reimbursement requests (po podnošenju zahtjeva za naknadu troškova), pursuant to article 226 §§ 2(5) and 4 of the ccp. on 25 march 2016 the applicant was examined by the prison doctor, who recommended an examination by a psychiatrist in the specialist hospital in kotor. he prescribed treatment and recommended another check-up in a month. between 17 september 2013 and 18 august 2015 the iecs informed the high court on several occasions that following the referral (uput) of the prison doctor, the applicant had been taken to various medical institutions outside the iecs. the conditions in which the applicant was detained were described as unfavourable for recuperation. between 27 june 2014 and 20 february 2015 the court of appeal held ten hearings. recommendations were made to the ministry of justice and the iecs to urgently consider the need to establish a prison psychiatric unit and to undertake steps to help patients suffering from depression, as well as to ensure that that kind of examination was conducted without the presence of prison guards (unless the psychiatrist explicitly requested their presence).
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in novi sad. on 1 june 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings seeking reimbursement for income she had lost because of a car accident. on 25 february 2008 the novi sad court of first instance delivered a judgment partly in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant to pay her a certain amount in that respect. on 30 october 2008 the novi sad district court partly quashed the judgment of 25 february 2008 and remitted the case, upholding the remainder of the judgment. on 2 july 2010 the novi sad court of first instance rejected the applicant’s claim in the remitted part. on 30 january 2012 the novi sad court of appeal partly upheld the judgment of 2 july 2010 and partly reversed it granting certain applicant’s claims. on 5 february 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaint about the length of those proceedings, taking into consideration that the civil courts had rendered four judgments at two instances and that the proceedings had been complex.
on 29 may 2007 he arrived to serve a life sentence at correctional colony no. he had unsuccessfully complained about those issues to the prison governor and to the public prosecution office. the government submitted that from may 2007 until october 2008 the applicant had been held in cell no. 9 had been repaired; the ventilation and heating systems had been operating properly; and the food and soap supply had been in compliance with domestic standards. 10 were in a bad condition and that there had been a delay in conducting rodent-control measures in the facility. m respectively and had been shared by four prisoners. during the period from 2008 until 2009 the prison cells had undergone major repairs and in 2010 repair works had been conducted in the corridors and utility rooms. 39 in may 2007 the applicant underwent a medical examination and was found to be healthy. according to the synopsis of the applicant’s treatment history provided to the court by the government, the applicant was seen by a tb-specialist (only once, according to the applicant) and prescribed standard treatment in the form of a combination of “first-line” anti-tb antibiotics (streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol), vitamins, hepatoprotectors, and an appropriate diet. monitoring tests (sputum, urine and blood tests and x-rays) were performed on a number of occasions. on four occasions (on 9 october 2008, 24 april and 22 december 2009 and 14 april 2010) the administration of prison no. the applicant was assigned the status of category 5.1 for three years. the relevant record in the applicant’s medical file suggests that the doctors found that the applicant’s state of health was satisfactory following the treatment provided and that they recommended that he stop smoking and undergo an x-ray examination of his chest once a year by way of preventive measures. in his reply to the government’s observations, he furthermore submitted that his treatment in prison no. 61 hospital and in general had been terminated too early. the applicant furthermore suggested that the authorities had withheld some of the complaints that he had addressed to different bodies, as he had received no reply to them. however, the latter document had been missing from the envelope received by his representative. on that occasion he had gone on hunger strike. 39 register of incoming mail for january 2013, which was submitted to the court by the applicant, summarises the content of letters from those entities with which correspondence was subject to monitoring under the law. 39 postal service, never arrived at the court.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1983 respectively. the first applicant is serving a life sentence in dnipropetrovsk prison no. on 24 march 2000 the applicants got married. on 16 february 2001 the first applicant was found guilty of a number of criminal offences and was sentenced to life imprisonment. the applicants requested that the prison administration allow them a long-term family visit on many occasions, in particular, in 2006. in april 2007 the applicants lodged an administrative claim against the state department for enforcement of sentences seeking an entitlement to a long-term conjugal visit every three months. they submitted that they were willing to have a common child and that a denial of that right to them was unlawful and arbitrary. the courts, on three levels of jurisdiction, rejected that claim as not based on law. the final decision of the higher administrative court was delivered on 8 december 2009. according to the information provided by the government, the first applicant was disciplined on three occasions during the period of his detention from 2001 to 2016: once in 2001 following the discovery of an unreported written message on him; once in 2003 on account of his attempt to get in touch with an inmate in an adjacent cell; and once in 2013 on account of unauthorised possession of a mobile telephone. the applicants got divorced on an unspecified date. according to the government, it happened “shortly after the introduction of the application”. according to the applicants, the divorce took place on an unspecified date in 2014. as indicated in the information note issued on 24 june 2016 by the administration of dnipropetrovsk prison no. 89, during his detention in that prison starting from 2003, the first applicant had had forty short-term visits and nine long-term family visits. the second applicant did not pay him visits thereafter. during the period from 2004 to 2012 the first applicant had regular short-term visits from his mother, sister and some other persons. on 13 september 2012 he had a visit from his sister and a certain ms l. who was registered in the prison’s logbook as his fiancée. on 5 december 2014 the first applicant got married with ms l. and they were allowed a long-term family visit on that occasion. subsequently, they enjoyed long-term conjugal visits about every three months.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. on 25 july 2002 the applicant’s 51-year-old brother aleksandr alekseyvich anoshin was murdered by a policeman in the alcohol recovery centre of the sovietsky district police department of nizhniy novgorod (медицинский вытрезвитель при советском рувд г. one hour later mr anoshin started banging on the door and asking to be let out. officer m., who together with his partner k. had just returned from patrol duty, got annoyed at the disruption, pushed mr anoshin away from the door and demanded that he calm down. mr anoshin fell on the bed and his head slammed against the wall. he then got to his feet and stepped towards the officer. officer m. punched the applicant’s brother in the head and chest five times, and strangled him until he was unconscious using a squared piece of a broken wooden chair. m. laid mr anoshin down on the bed, and walked out. the investigation lasted four years and was handled in turn by at least six different investigators. they inspected the scene, conducted witness interviews, commissioned forensic reports, and staged reconstructions. the centre staff initially testified that they had found the applicant’s brother unwell in his bed, but then changed their story, saying that they had seen him hang himself using a bed sheet tied to the bars of his cell window. however, the investigation was put on hold thirteen times because no credible suspect had been identified. in march 2006 m. was interviewed for the first time. by august 2006 the case against him had gone to trial. on 1 august 2008 the sovietsky district court of nizhniy novgorod convicted m. of murder and violent abuse of official power and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment and a three-year ban from police service. neglect-of-duty charges brought against his two co‑defendants (officers an. at the trial, m. was directly incriminated by an., confessed that the suicide story had been a cover-up condoned by commanders of sovietsky police department. on 14 november 2008 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the sentence. on 25 may 2009 the sovietsky district court awarded rub 150,000 (approximately eur 3,400) to each claimant.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is currently serving a prison sentence. physically assaulted him and subjected him to electric shocks in a gym. from the investigation unit of the zheleznodorozhnyy district police department drew up a record of the applicant’s arrest. the record indicates that the applicant was arrested at 7 p.m. that day. according to records from iz 62/1 dated 16 may 2006, on his arrival at 4.20 p.m. that day the applicant was examined by a medical assistant (feldsher). on 25 may 2006 the applicant lodged a complaint with the zheleznodorozhnyy district prosecutor against the police officers, requesting that they be prosecuted. it was stated in the report that the police officers had used “physical force” and handcuffs, and that “no incidents had happened”. stated that they had carried out the applicant’s arrest at around 6 a.m. on 13 may 2006. they used physical force and special devices (handcuffs). from the organised crime unit stated that, after the applicant’s arrest in the early hours of 13 may 2006, he had searched him in the presence of attesting witnesses. he denied subjecting him to any physical or verbal abuse. during his arrest the applicant resisted, and physical force was used on him. did not know whether the applicant had been subjected to any ill‑treatment by the police officers of the zheleznodorozhnyy police station. (b)  judicial review of the investigators’ decisions 25. on 16 december 2008 the same court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 10 june 2008, holding that it was lawful and well-grounded. on 5 february 2009 the ryazan regional court fully endorsed that decision on appeal. on 26 may 2006 a copy of the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment was forwarded to the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office of ryazan for a separate inquiry in relation to the police officers of the organised crime unit. in december 2006 and may 2008 respectively the applicant lodged two more complaints with the prosecutor general’s office and the investigative committee against the police officers, investigators and other state officials, requesting that they be prosecuted for unlawful arrest, detention and abuse of power in connection with the events of 13 to 16 may 2006 and his criminal case. the investigation authority was ordered to rectify those deficiencies. it appears that the refusal was subsequently overruled by the investigative committee, and an additional inquiry was ordered.
the applicant was born in 1985 and is currently detained in st petersburg. he was suspected of involvement in large-scale drug dealing. he remained in custody pending the investigation and trial. on 6 october 2011 the sovetskiy district court of kazan (“the district court”) received the case file and set the trial date for 19 october 2011. on 19 march 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to nine and a half years’ imprisonment. during the trial, which consisted of sixteen hearings, the applicant was confined in a metal cage in the courtroom. there was no desk inside the cage, only a wooden bench, which made it impossible for him to take notes during the hearings. armed security guards remained beside the cage dock. the applicant’s lawyer could only approach him with the court’s permission. any conversations between them had to take place in the presence of the guards. on 10 august 2012 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the applicant participated in the hearing by videoconference. he was placed behind a floor-to-ceiling metal partition on the premises of the remand prison sizo-3 of the tatarstan republic where he was detained and communicated with the judges via a video link.
the applicants were born in 1971, 1975, 1974 and 1981 respectively and are detained in marijampolė and kybartai correctional facilities. from then on, the applicant’s detention was regularly extended for three months. the last decision to extend the applicant’s detention for three months at the pre-trial stage was adopted by the vilnius regional court on 17 april 2014. on 30 june 2014 the bill of indictment was drawn up. on 10 july 2014 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. on 5 august 2016 the court of appeal, following an appeal by the prosecutor, quashed the lower court’s decision to release the applicant. the court ordered the applicant’s detention for three months from the date of his arrest. on 3 november 2016 the klaipėda regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. the courts observed the growing volume of the case material, the need to order psychiatric examinations for several of the accused, and the international element of the case. on 30 august 2017 the court of appeal found that although for thirty-three months in total there had been no hearings, the breaks had taken place for reasons unconnected with the work of the courts, and it had not been possible to speed up the proceedings. on 8 may 2017 the applicant lodged a claim before the vilnius regional administrative court, raising, among other issues, the complaint that he could not have long-stay visits while detained in lukiškės remand prison between 1 january 2016 and 26 september 2016. in the present case there was no information that the applicant had applied for a visit or that he had been refused such visits. on 19 november 2013 the court of appeal observed that on 16 may 2013 another pre-trial investigation was joined to the present one. (b)  the applicant’s detention during his trial 26. the applicant’s detention was thus justified. on 30 august 2017 the court of appeal held that the length of the applicant’s detention was justified by the applicant’s character, the seriousness of the offences, the extreme complexity of the case (thirteen accused, many witnesses, many episodes of criminal activity, 150 volumes of evidence) as well as by the public interest, which was justified under the court’s case-law. by a decision of 8 february 2018 the court of appeal granted the applicant’s request to allow him to start serving the sentence imposed on him by the judgment of the klaipėda regional court of 20 december 2017. the applicant started serving his sentence in kybartai correctional facility on 22 february 2018. on 12 june 2017 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant. also, the court held that the closing speeches had already commenced in the criminal case, and the court examining the case was obliged to make sure that the case was examined as quickly as possible.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently living in armenia. 105, as amended) – see seagal v. cyprus, no. on 5 may 2011 the applicant was served with a letter informing him of the above decision, but he refused to sign for it. on 21 september 2011 the applicant was transferred to the detention facility at paphos police station. on 25 november 2011, while the habeas corpus proceedings were pending, amending law no. 153(i)/2011, transposing the directive into national law had come into force only after the expiration of the six-month period it could not have applied to the applicant. the applicant submitted that no reply had been received from the authorities. by a letter dated 15 march 2012 the applicant’s representative complained to the minister of the int+erior about the applicant’s detention and requested that the applicant’s detention order be reviewed, in accordance with section 18 πστ(4) of the aliens and immigration law (see paragraph 101 below). on 25 may 2012 the minister of the interior reviewed the applicant’s detention and decided on its continuation for another six months as the applicant did not have travel documents and continued to refuse to visit the iranian embassy in order to secure the issuance of a passport to him, thus hampering the deportation process. the director of the aliens and immigration service was also informed of this decision. on 25 october 2012 the applicant was released under conditions to which he agreed. he had been completely disoriented when he had been transferred from one police station to another because he had not been given any information or explanations regarding his transferral. he had informed a local non-governmental organisation, kisa, about one of these incidents; kisa had then reported it to the commissioner for administration of the republic of cyprus (“the ombudsman”), resulting in a visit to the station by her office (see paragraph 120 below). detainees had been kept together according to their ethnic origin. there had been no specific schedule for exercise and on some days detainees had not exercised at all and had remained in their cells. as a result of this the applicant had felt completely disoriented and had lost all sense of time. there had been two lamps in each cell, providing adequate artificial light. during the day the applicant’s cell had been open and he had been able to move freely in the facility’s corridors and common areas. the sanitary facilities had been outside the cell and common to all detainees. cells in this facility had measured 7.08 sq.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 march 2007 criminal proceedings were initiated into the disappearance of a.s. next day he was taken to irkutsk by aeroplane. he was placed in a room on the third floor, where seven police officers were waiting. they placed a gas mask over his head and closed off the air flow. he was kicked in the chest, punched in the ears and given electric shocks. according to a record of the applicant’s arrest for murder signed by the applicant in the absence of a lawyer, it was drawn up at 12.30 a.m. on 10 april 2007 by investigator a.m. from the sverdlovskiy district prosecutor’s office of irkutsk. later, during his trial, the applicant claimed that the state-appointed lawyer had not been present during his questioning and had only signed the record of his questioning at the end. on an unspecified date (before 6 june 2007) another lawyer started representing the applicant. on the same day the applicant was placed in a pre-trial detention facility in irkutsk (iz 38/1/2). according to a certificate signed by the ivs doctor, the applicant was examined on 11 april 2007 and had bruises in the area of the left collarbone, left shoulder and left lumbar region, and abrasions in the area of the elbow joints, both hands and wrists. the certificate referred to a home accident without any further details. all injuries had been caused approximately two days before the examination and were classified as injuries not occasioning actual bodily harm. he stated that an assault not occasioning actual bodily harm (article 116 § 1 of the criminal code) was a case of private prosecution which could not be opened without a relevant complaint against those responsible. on 28 april 2010 the irkutsk regional court received the applicant’s appeal dated 16 april 2010 against the refusal to institute criminal proceedings of 12 march 2008. it relied, in particular, on the applicant’s self-incriminating statements made during his questioning as a suspect. at his trial, the applicant pleaded guilty in part. on 11 december 2008 the supreme court of russia partly modified this judgment on appeal and sentenced the applicant to eighteen years’ and six months’ imprisonment. the appellate court relied on the refusal to open a criminal case of 12 march 2008, noting the applicant’s statements that the injuries on the wrists had been caused as a result of the use of handcuffs to suppress the applicant’s resistance. on 9 june 2012 the irkutsk regional court ordered that the term of the applicant’s imprisonment should run from 8 april 2007, the day when he had actually been arrested.
the first applicant (ms makarova) was born in 1989 and lived in moscow. the second applicant (ms astakhova) was born in 1985 and lives in mytishchi, moscow region. the third applicant (ms fokht‑babushkina) was born in 1994 and lives in moscow. on 14 december 2012 the state duma, the lower house of the federal assembly of russia, adopted at first reading a draft law which, in particular, prohibited the adoption of children of russian nationality by citizens of the united states of america. on 17 december 2012 the official daily newspaper rossiyskaya gazeta announced that the second reading of the draft law was scheduled for 19 december 2012. all of the applicants decided to hold solo demonstrations on 19 december 2012. 57818/09 and 14 others, §§ 206-15, 7 february 2017). according to the first applicant, she was arrested by the police several minutes later and taken to a police van. there were no orders from police officers to stop the demonstration and leave the area. according to the second and third applicants, after their solo demonstrations they left the area, showing their posters to journalists at their request. at 10.30 a.m. they were arrested and taken to the tverskoy district police station for the purpose of compiling an administrative-offence record. on 15 january 2013 the justice of the peace of circuit no. the court found it established, on the basis of the administrative-offence record, the police officers’ reports and oral testimony by a police officer who had arrested the applicant that the latter had taken part in a public event (“picket”) which had involved fifty people and had been held without prior notification of the authorities. on 14 february 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgment on appeal. on 31 january 2013 in two separate proceedings the same justice of the peace convicted the second and the third applicants under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced each of them to fines of rub 20,000. on 21 february and 21 march 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgments in respect of the third and second applicants respectively. both applicants were absent from the appeal hearings, though the third applicant’s lawyer did participate. in its appeal decision the appellate court considered that the third applicant’s guilt had been proved by the adverse evidence, such as the administrative-offence record, the escort procedure record and testimonies. on 1 and 5 july 2013 the moscow city court examined supervisory review complaints lodged by the second and third applicants. their fines were reduced to rub 10,000 (about eur 232 at the time) each.
the applicant was born in 1983 and is detained in rzekuń. the applicant was detained in płock prison from 26 march to 29 august 2009 (five months and four days). the applicant submitted that during his detention in płock prison he had been held in overcrowded cells. 400 and 402 between 26 march and 29 august 2009. the ventilation and the sanitary conditions in these cells were inadequate. the applicant had one shower per week and one hour’s outdoor exercise per day. he claimed 10,000 polish zlotys (pln) in compensation (approximately eur 2,500). he applied to be exempted from court fees. on 18 february 2011 the court allowed this application. between 21 january and 31 march 2011 the applicant submitted several requests for evidence and asked to attend the court’s hearings. the applicant was not present at the court hearing on 23 march 2011. on 6 january 2011 the applicant examined the files of his case in warsaw mokotów remand centre. on 2 february 2012 he applied for legal aid. lastly, the remainder of the applicant’s allegations about the material conditions in his cells were considered unsubstantiated in the light of the material gathered in the case. on 29 june 2012 the court issued an order and instructed the applicant to submit two additional copies of his appeal. on 17 july 2012 the court rejected the applicant’s appeal. on 20 september 2012 the applicant submitted an interlocutory appeal against the decision of 13 september 2012, arguing as follows:
“i should have been informed in advance that the court would require me to provide copies of pleadings. i am a simple man without legal knowledge and my application for a legal-aid lawyer was dismissed by the court. if the court had sent me the original pleading i could have copied it and sent it back. on 24 january 2013 the court rejected the applicant’s interlocutory appeal.
the applicant was born in 1975 and, as can be seen from the case materials, is currently serving a sentence in a penal institution (see paragraph 20 below). on 24 may 1996 the applicant was convicted of aggravated double murder and other offences. on 29 march 2002 the applicant attempted to escape. he was sentenced to four years and six months’ imprisonment (“the second conviction”). it was due to expire on 29 september 2015. the amended legislation did not explicitly address the question of its retroactive effect (see paragraph 21 below). on 20 february 2008 the supreme court rectified its decision of 20 april 2007 based on the applicant’s request to that end, stating that the outstanding sentence for the applicant’s first conviction and the sentence for the second conviction were to be cumulative, and that the cumulative sentence of eight years and six months had to start running from 29 march 2002, namely the date of commission of the second offence rather than the date of the imposition of the later sentence, which was 12 april 2006. appellate proceedings concerning the second conviction were still pending when the supreme court adopted the two decisions. that sentence would have expired on 29 september 2015. relying on article 615 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp” – see paragraph 24 below), the decision corrected the starting date of the cumulative sentence to 12 april 2006 – the date on which the first-instance court’s decision concerning the second conviction had been adopted. based on that new starting date, the applicant’s sentence was due to expire on 12 october 2019. as shown by the case files, the decision of 3 april 2009 was served on the applicant on 16 april 2009. the supreme court further reduced the sentence for the applicant’s second conviction to three years. that term was due to expire on 12 april 2013. he noted that it was only by means of the supreme court’s final decision that he had learned about the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009. maintaining that his appeal had been the sole basis for the appellate court’s judgment of 3 december 2008, the applicant submitted that the rectified appellate decision, made by that very court, had been in violation of article 540 § 1 of the ccp which had provided a guarantee for an appellant against a worsening of his or her position in the proceedings in the absence of an appeal from the prosecuting authorities. on 24 april 2009 the head of the registry of the chamber of criminal cases of the supreme court replied to the applicant, stating that the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009 had constituted an integral part of the appellate judgment of 3 december 2008. therefore, the supreme court was not in a position to address the applicant’s complaint. on 11 may 2009, relying on article 553 of the ccp (see paragraph 22 below), the applicant lodged an interlocutory appeal on points of law against the rectified appellate decision. as the applicant’s submissions before the court show, on 6 february 2017 he was arrested on charges of aggravated fraud and repeated forgery of official documents.
the applicant was born in 1978 and was at the time of the introduction of the application detained at the safi detention centre. on 10 september 2016 the applicant, a refugee from ivory coast who claimed to have previously obtained asylum in armenia, left russia and arrived in malta by plane. according to the applicant he immediately informed the authorities that he was a refugee from ivory coast and that he had fled the war in his country many years before. he claimed that he had reached malta from armenia, where he had lived as a refugee prior to his arrival in malta. the applicant was found carrying false italian identification documents and, according to the government, when questioned, he informed the police that he had obtained the documents from a friend in italy and that his intention was to travel to italy by transiting via malta. on the same day he was taken to police headquarters were he was questioned. he was informed that he had the right to appeal this decision before the immigration appeals board (hereinafter “the board”) within three days. he was informed that he was entitled to free legal assistance. the applicant was accompanied to safi barracks detention centre, where he was detained. on 20 september 2016 the applicant applied for international protection and was formally registered as an asylum‑seeker. the applicant was present with his legal representatives and was provided with an interpreter. furthermore, the board stressed that since its members were merely part-time employees meeting once a week and lacking administrative support while being responsible for a vast array of immigration related appeals, it was simply unable to meets its legal obligation and determine the lawfulness of his detention on time. during the hearing the applicant’s representative repeatedly requested the malta police force’s representative and the chairperson of the board to specify the grounds on which he was being detained. the applicant’s representative made written and oral submissions to the board. he had not made any attempt to conceal any information and had acted with honesty, openness and transparency towards the authorities. in his opinion the immigration police had failed to demonstrate that without the applicant’s detention it would have been impossible for them to determine any elements on the basis of his asylum application. 420.06, as such detention would then no longer be reasonable. he argued that there had been no individual assessment of the applicant’s situation, and that it was not clear what elements were still required. the applicant was released from immigrant detention on 8 november 2016, subject to reporting at the police station daily. by a judgment of 19 january 2017, in accordance with his guilty plea, the applicant was found guilty of using a false passport.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in wrocław. the applicant was detained in wrocław remand centre during various periods between 1991 and 2014, including from 24 june 2009 to 2 october 2010. he was released from detention on 8 july 2017. the applicant submitted that during his detention in wrocław remand centre he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 sq. he claimed 20,000 polish zlotys (pln) in compensation. on 6 may 2011 the court exempted the applicant from the court fees and dismissed his application for legal aid. the applicant did not challenge that decision. in the course of the judicial proceedings the applicant lodged several applications and requests with the court, including a letter of 8 august 2012. on 5 october 2012 the wrocław‑śródmieście district court dismissed the applicant’s civil claim. on 10 october 2012 the applicant lodged with the court a letter entitled “application: refers to an appeal against the judgment of the wrocław‑śródmieście district court of 5 october 2012” which the court treated as an appeal. on an unspecified date the applicant applied for legal aid. if the party does not ask for the reasoned judgment, the appeal is to be submitted directly within 21 days of the service of the judgment. on 12 november 2012 the applicant received the reasoning of the court’s judgment of 5 october 2012. therefore, on 6 february 2013 the court issued an order and instructed the applicant to comply with the formal requirements of his appeal by submitting a copy thereof within seven days of the service of the court order. the order was served on 14 february 2013. he added that he had not been aware that he should have submitted his appeal in two copies. on 19 march 2013 the court rejected the applicant’s appeal for failure to submit an exact copy thereof. on 30 march 2013 the applicant appealed against that decision. on 21 june 2013 the wrocław regional court dismissed the applicant’s interlocutory appeal, holding that the applicant, who had started a civil action and knew that he was deprived of his liberty, could justifiably be expected to keep copies of all letters he sent to the court, especially since he had been informed on 28 august 2012 that all letters to the court should be submitted in two copies. additionally, after the judgment had been issued the applicant was informed about the means and procedure of submitting appeals.
on 30 may 2012 the applicant was arrested and detained in connection with a suspicion of making two threats by telephone against certain m.s. on 28 june 2012 the psychiatric expert, e.s., she found that he was incapable of understanding and controlling his actions and that he posed a danger to others, which warranted his psychiatric internment. produced a supplement to her report, which she prepared with a psychologist. she explained that she had obtained the applicant’s medical record from his general practitioner, v.p., she thus reiterated her previous opinion on the basis of the new records she had obtained. at a hearing before the zagreb municipal criminal court on 4 december 2012, the applicant asked that his psychiatrist v.g., and several other witnesses, including his neighbours, be heard. he said they could all give evidence as to his mental state. he also argued that he had had previous conflicts with the victims and asked that the police be requested to submit relevant information about those incidents. reiterated the findings and opinion she had previously given. according to which he suffered from chronic stress and maladaptation to the environment. at the same time, her opinion was contrary to the findings of his psychiatrist v.g. on the same day the zagreb municipal criminal court found that the applicant had committed the offence of making serious threats while lacking mental capacity. ’s report, it decided that he should be placed in a psychiatric hospital for a period of six months. and that they had been produced by a doctor whom the applicant had paid privately. he pointed out that his psychiatrist v.g., the zagreb municipal criminal court judgment thereby became final. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. on 7 november 2013 a three-judge panel of the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that there had been nothing in his arguments to raise any doubts about the necessity for his committal to the hospital as established by the zagreb municipal criminal court.
the applicant was born in 1951 and is currently detained in sofia prison. on 17 december 2016 the applicant took a flight from kutaisi, georgia, to sofia, bulgaria. when trying to pass through the passport control at sofia airport, he was arrested pursuant to a red notice issued by the national central bureau of interpol for iran on 14 september 2016. the notice went on to say that the offence in connection with which the applicant was being sought was one under article 656 of the iranian penal code (see paragraphs 38-40 below), and that the maximum penalty in respect of it was three years’ imprisonment. the sofia city court heard the prosecuting authorities’ application the same day. they have no laws and judges, but decide as they please. the applicant’s court-appointed counsel appealed against that decision. in view of the applicant’s statement, the court discontinued the appeal proceedings. in january 2017 the iranian authorities submitted to the bulgarian authorities an extradition request in respect of the applicant. in the request the iranian authorities assured their bulgarian counterparts that the applicant would not face torture or inhuman treatment if extradited to iran. they also expressed their willingness to honour extradition requests by bulgaria. extradition proceedings against the applicant were opened in the sofia city court on 29 january 2017. he had counsel of his own choice and was given an interpreter into russian, a language that he apparently speaks. the prosecution also asked the court to keep the applicant in detention until the conclusion of the extradition proceedings. the court heard the extradition case on 6 and 28 february, 23 march and 12 april 2017. the court did so, in the exercise of its powers under section 17(3) of the extradition and european arrest warrant act 2005 (see paragraph 34 below), and in a diplomatic note of 5 april 2017 the iranian authorities said that the applicant had committed the offence at 1.40 p.m. on 23 june 2016. he also pointed out that although bulgaria had extradition agreements with many states, iran was not among them. in particular, iranian law only envisaged imprisonment in respect of the alleged offence. counsel for the applicant appealed to the sofia court of appeal. he reiterated that the applicant had already left tehran at the time when the alleged offence had been committed.
the russian federal prison service (“the fsin”) transports prisoners across its network of nearly 300 remand prisons and equivalent facilities, eight prisons for convicted offenders, and more than 800 correctional facilities and penal settlements (колония-поселение). a large compartment is the same size as a standard russian passenger compartment designed for four people. six bunks, 60 centimetres wide by 2 metres long, are placed three on each side. a central aisle opens onto a guards’ area with cushioned seats for convoy officers and a heating unit. these cubicles have a solid metal body and doors with a peephole and small air holes. multi-prisoner cells are 1.15 to 1.20 metres deep. the trips in january lasted three minutes each way, those in february thirty minutes. pursuant to an order issued by the primorskiy regional court, mr rakov was to be transferred from the facility where he was serving his sentence to a remand prison in vladivostok, located 200 kilometres away. the transfer ended at 9 p.m. on 22 february 2011. mr dmitriy lvovich vasilyev was born in 1958 and lives in pechora. the detainees were in the van for one hour, first in transit to the railway station and later while they waited for the train to arrive. the return journey began at 5 p.m. on 24 november 2012, when mr vasilyev and thirteen other prisoners were taken to the railway station in a kamaz prison van. they were held in a multi-prisoner cell during the two‑hour trip. they alighted one hour later at the penal facility. from 3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on 18 december 2015 the three applicants and five other people were placed in a multi-prisoner cell of a kamaz prison van and taken to syktyvkar railway station. that journey was followed by a transfer to the vologda remand prison by van with nine people sharing a multi-prisoner cell. lastly, from 8.10 a.m. until 10.10 a.m. on 16 january, fourteen prisoners, including the applicants, were transferred to the penal facility in a multi-prisoner cell of a kamaz van. mr rakov challenged point 167 of the conveyance instruction (see paragraph 67 below), claiming that the excessively high normative capacity of railway carriages led to overcrowding and deprived prisoners of a proper night’s rest. on 27 december 2011 the appeals panel of the supreme court rejected the appeal in a summary fashion. the plaintiffs’ claim that the technical specifications of the guidance are in breach of the case-law of the european court in the cases of khudoyorov v. russia, guliyev v. russia, and idalov v. russia in the part concerning the conditions of transfer by road and by rail, is erroneous because it does not correspond to the contents [of those judgments].”
the first applicant has been or is a guardian (a foster parent) of the second to eighth applicants. at birth r. was diagnosed with several serious health conditions. as his condition remained very serious and unstable, his natural parents considered themselves unfit to attend to his needs and agreed for their son to be put into the care of the first applicant, who had qualifications in medicine and was an experienced paediatrician. on 20 july 2001 the first applicant took r. from hospital and brought him at her place of residence. on 23 november 2001 the trusovskiy district council in astrakhan appointed the first applicant to act as r.’s guardian. between 2001 and 2007, the first applicant and r.’s parents maintained good relations. the first applicant refused to return the boy. on 11 november 2008 the trusovskiy district court of astrakhan (“the district court”) dismissed the first applicant’s claim. in particular, it rejected as unfounded the first applicant’s argument that r.’s parents had abandoned him in the children’s hospital; it observed in this connection that no evidence had been submitted to it – in the form of a written statement by r.’s parents or certificates from any health institutions – to show that r.’s parents had ever formally renounced their parental authority over the boy. the boy would need a lengthy adaptation period to get used to his natural parents. on an unspecified date, r.’s parents brought a claim against the first applicant. on 10 june 2009 the regional court upheld the first-instance judgment on appeal. in the ensuing proceedings both parties were represented by lawyers. it stated, in particular, that r.’s parents had established good psychological contact with the child, and that they had showed a caring and loving attitude towards the boy. according to the report, when with his parents, r. felt calm and comfortable. on the contrary, they wanted him to get better and to return to his family. however, in the court’s view, those statements did not show that r.’s parents were unable to take good care of the boy, nor that in view of r.’s physical and psychological condition he should continue living with the first applicant. the child had suffered from a serious congenital illness and had spent considerable time in hospital. they understood adequately his psychological particularities, emotional state, needs and capabilities. they do not have a history of psychiatric diseases or criminal records.
the applicants are eight russian nationals whose particulars are listed in the appendix. since the 1990s mr ali t. has been suspected of participating in, and then leading, illegal armed groups operating in ingushetia and masterminding a number of crimes and terrorist attacks. on 26 november 2004 the nazran district court revoked the pronouncement in view of new information. the government explained, in additional observations of 18 april 2012, that there were a number of pieces of evidence indicating that between 2004 and june 2010 mr ali t. had been in regular contact with his relatives in nasyr-kort. the second and third applicants were ordered into a minibus, where they were questioned about their brother, mr ali t. other applicants, their neighbours and vehicles were moved a safe distance from the house. at 3.35 p.m. a senior investigator from the federal security service of russia (“the fsb”) drew up a search report. the military vehicles had also been moved to a safe distance. she and her relatives had been escorted to a vehicle, where she had been questioned. the neighbours had complied; two explosions had occurred within about ten minutes. the third applicant was informed of that decision by letters of 8 and 18 april, and 5 may 2011, indicating a possibility to appeal. the decision of 8 april 2011 was revoked by a military investigator’s decision on 27 october 2011. a five-page summary of the decision, forwarded to the third applicant on the same day, indicated that the following procedural measures had been taken: on 14 november 2011 a military investigator had questioned the bomb-disposal expert and the fsb investigator who had conducted the search of the premises. no pressure had been put on her or any other members of her family. it had caused the detonation of a second device, of which the officers had been unaware. the bomb-disposal expert stated that he had taken part in the search and found an ied made out of a 125 mm artillery shell and a detonating device, wrapped up in black cellophane and connected to the ied with wire. that had resulted in an explosion, the destruction of the building and a fire. no one was hurt, due to the security measures taken. ... it does not appear that the applicants maintained any further contact with the investigation. the applicants did not appeal against that decision. at the time of submission of the observations, the criminal investigation was still ongoing, and the documents and witness statements collected within it could not be disclosed, in the interests of justice.
the applicant was born in 1956 and was convicted of attempting to undermine the constitutional order and sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. on an unspecified date, the applicant’s lawyer sent a package by post to the applicant. the prison administration believed the contents of the package to be suspect and therefore lodged a request on 12 august 2005 with the public prosecutor for a decision to be taken by an enforcement court to determine whether the material sent to the applicant concerned defence-related documents or whether they concerned any objectionable content so as to prevent them from being handed over to the applicant. the court held that the material in question did not relate to the rights of the defence and that therefore they should not be handed over to the applicant pursuant to section 5 of law no. he submitted that he had asked his lawyer to bring those books and magazines in question simply because he had wanted to read them. he submitted that it had been the prison administration which had told his lawyer that they could not be brought in person and had therefore to be sent by post. he further argued that while it was correct that they had not been related to his rights of defence, they were not illegal publications and there had been no basis for the prison administration to withhold them from him simply because they had been sent by post by his lawyer. in the meantime, that is to say on 16 september 2005, the prison administration lodged another request with the public prosecutor in relation to the package sent by the applicant’s lawyer. 5351, which provides for an official to be present during consultations between a prisoner and his or her lawyer, be applied to the applicant. on 24 october 2005 the applicant objected to the decision of 23 september 2005 before the edirne assize court. he argued that no such element had been present in his situation and the court had not conducted any examination in that connection. the applicant did not request that the examination of his case be carried out by holding a hearing. on 27 october 2005 the edirne assize court dismissed the case on the basis of the case file and without holding a hearing. on 29 may 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the edirne enforcement court for the restriction on the conversations between him and his lawyer to be lifted. an appeal against that decision by the applicant was dismissed on 24 august 2011. the court dismissed that application on 11 april 2013, holding that there had not been any change in the circumstances of the applicant and the decision relating to the restriction on the consultations with the applicant’s lawyer. on 8 december 2015 the court delivered an inadmissibility decision on account of non-exhaustion of domestic remedies and held that the applicant had to make use of the new domestic remedy established by law no. 6384 (see altay and others v. turkey (dec.), on 1 november 2016 the compensation commission held that the edirne enforcement court’s decision not to hand over the book and the periodicals sent to the applicant by his lawyer had infringed the applicant’s right to receive information within the meaning of article 10 of the convention. they held in that connection that the impugned decision had constituted an interference which had not been based on relevant and sufficient reasons, notably because the domestic court had not explained in its decision in what respect the books and magazines in question had jeopardised the security of the institution.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. he is a political activist, opposition leader, anti-corruption campaigner and popular blogger. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, echr 2016 (extracts)). on 25 april 2012 the investigation committee, on the direct order of mr bastrykin, instituted criminal proceedings for embezzlement against the applicant (see navalnyy and ofitserov, cited above, hereinafter “the kirovles case”). on 26 july 2012 the applicant published an article about mr bastrykin, alleging in particular that his business activities and residence status in the czech republic were incompatible with the office he held, under the domestic law (ibid., §§ the applicant also received a warning for travelling to moscow region without proper authorisation from the investigator. on 14 january 2014 the investigation committee rejected a new request from the applicant for permission to travel to moscow region. he was accused of a breach of regulations for holding a demonstration and of an alleged failure to obey the lawful orders of the police and was found liable for those administrative offences under articles 20.2 and 19.3 of the code of administrative offences. the applicant objected and referred to his complaint of 31 january 2014. he was not allowed to go to work, take walks, carry out errands or leave his apartment for any purpose other than to attend procedural acts in his criminal case and occasional medical appointments. it declined jurisdiction in favour of the zamoskvoretskiy district court on the grounds that the criminal case had already been submitted there and terminated the proceedings. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 1 august 2014, after an application by the prosecutor to have the applicant placed in pre-trial detention, the zamoskvoretskiy district court reviewed the preventive measure. it rejected a request from the applicant to be allowed daily walks. at the same time it specified radio and television as being among the banned means of communication. it refused to allow the applicant to go to work, take walks or receive correspondence. the applicant illustrated his statement with a photograph of his tracking bracelet having been cut open. on 14 january 2015 the zamoskvoretskiy district court refused to examine the applicant’s complaint about the extension of his house arrest on 30 december 2014 on the grounds that the measure had been ordered in the judgment on the merits of the criminal case and had not been a procedural decision concerning pre-trial issues. on 27 april 2015 the applicant lodged a cassation appeal. on 26 june 2015 the moscow city court refused leave to lodge a cassation appeal.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in ljubljana. he and m. have three children, triplets born on 28 october 1996. however, the centre’s records show that in 2004 m. reported that the children no longer wanted contact with their father. the centre in its opinion noted that both parents should join individual therapy. they found the contact unpleasant and refused it. relying on the opinion of dr t. (see paragraph 16 above), the court held that the children had refused contact with the applicant and that this was not the result of the manipulation of m. but originated in their negative experiences with the contact sessions in the past. on 20 november 2008 the applicant and m. were invited to a meeting at the centre to discuss and reach an agreement on how the contact sessions would work and be organised under the centre’s supervision. the centre’s records show that during the session the children frequently asked if they could leave and told the applicant that they did not want to see him. on 28 april 2009, after conducting an interview with the children, the centre informed the applicant that a contact session scheduled for 29 april 2009 had been cancelled on the basis of section 119 of the marriage and family relations act (see paragraph 45 below) because it would be a serious psychological burden for the children. meanwhile, the applicant via his lawyer repeatedly warned the centre that they had not started with a meaningful implementation of the above-mentioned court decision (see paragraph 18 above). on 15 january 2009 the expert team decided to propose to the court that it issue an interim order to suspend contact with immediate effect because the contact sessions were not in the children’s interests. it held in this connection that a parent refusing to attend the therapy would be responsible for the absence of contact between the applicant and his children. it also noted that the four centre officials (caseworkers) who had been present during the contact sessions saw no prospect of the relationship between the applicant and the children improving in the framework of the supervised contact sessions and that the children were not willing participants in them. the activities of the centre had been aimed at suspending contact instead of actively establishing it with the help of an expert. it noted in this connection that m. had not agreed to it and that the children had clearly refused any cooperation with their father during the contact sessions and were seriously distressed. on 11 january 2012 the ljubljana higher court upheld the kranj district court’s decision (see paragraph 35 above). other evidence, namely the expert’s opinion, the centre’s report and the hearing of m. and the applicant, confirmed that contact was not beneficial to the children, who continued to refuse any contact with the applicant. on 20 may 2009 the inspector to whom the case had been allocated (hereinafter “the inspector”) asked the centre to submit a written report and copies of the applicant’s family files. however, shortly thereafter the inspector had been absent from work for almost a year and had been unable to conclude the audit until 31 august 2011. in particular, the report emphasised that the parents were responsible for the situation of distress and were the only ones who could resolve it (with the intervention of the centre).
the applicant, mr aleksey alekseyevich malyy, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1972 and is currently serving a sentence of life imprisonment. he was detained for over three months and confessed to having killed his parents. on 18 january 2005, shortly before an identification parade in which the security guard of one of the jewellery stores was to recognise the perpetrators, the applicant changed his mind and submitted that he did not need legal representation. on the same day he was transferred to the dnipropetrovsk temporary detention facility (“the dnipropetrovsk itt”). later the same day k., too, wrote “a statement of surrender to the police” in respect of the robbery and murder of mr and ms s., in which he confirmed to the same investigator the account of the events given in the applicant’s related confession (see paragraph 20 above). subsequently, in the course of the trial, k. would submit that the investigator had forced him to incriminate the applicant (see paragraphs 31 and 35 below). k. recognised one of them as that worn by the applicant at the time of the murder on 12 october 2004. as submitted by the applicant, he had been the only person wearing winter clothes, which were also dirty. it can only be seen that its text is limited to one brief paragraph. k. also retracted his earlier statement on that charge in which he had incriminated the applicant, as having been obtained under duress. he further observed that his client had not been legally represented while making that confession. the applicant also alleged that on 28 january 2005 he had been taken to the dnipropetrovsk region criminal investigation department, where the police had ill-treated him with a view to extracting his confession to the aggravated murder of mr and ms s. the applicant provided the following account. he further alleged that the police had threatened him with rape. on 8 november 2005 the dnipropetrovsk court instructed the prosecution authorities to investigate the applicant’s allegation of ill‑treatment, along with similar allegations from the other accused (see paragraphs 31 and 32 above). in sum, their allegations were dismissed as being without basis. there were tight metal screens on the windows preventing access to daylight. for most of the time he was detained in a basement cell measuring 1.9 m by 3.7 m, which he shared with another inmate. the premises were infested with rats and had never been disinfested. the prison official replied that it could be proved by the fact that a copy of the cover letter from the sizo administration accompanying the applicant’s letter in question was available in the file. on 27 july and 23 august 2007 the court requested the applicant to submit a copy of his cassation appeal against the judgment of the dnipropetrovsk court of 19 january 2006.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in munich. he and mr w. founded the t.ag, a directory enquiries service. in 2005 the applicant brought an action against dtag, claiming that as a result of the excessive prices paid by the t.ag, he and mr w. had had to reduce their shares in the company before its stock market launch. on 28 may 2013 the regional court dismissed the claim. in the same hearing the applicant called for the proceedings to be suspended and a preliminary ruling from the cjeu to be obtained. on 2 july 2014 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it also referred to the relevant case-law of the federal court of justice. as regards the question of whether the applicant should be granted leave to appeal on points of law, the court of appeal stated:
“there is no reason to grant leave to appeal on points of law pursuant to article 543 § 2 of the code of civil procedure (zivilprozessordnung). there is no need to clarify the legal question raised, since there are no doubts concerning the scope and interpretation of those legal provisions. ...
does article 86 tec (article 102 tfeu) preclude the interpretation and application of domestic legislation enacted by a member state as laid out in the first question for referral if the damaged shareholders are founding shareholders (investors) who, at the time of the damaging event, have a significant shareholding and, as members of the company’s executive board, decisively shape the company’s competitive conduct?” on 18 may 2015 the federal court of justice rejected the applicant’s complaint, stating that it had examined his submissions but had not considered them sufficiently convincing and that a decision by a court of last resort had not required more detailed reasoning. on 25 february 2016 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint (1 bvr 1410/16) lodged by the applicant, without providing reasons. the decision regarding the complaint is to be served upon the parties. in case 1 bvr 1320/14, however, the constitutional court found a violation of the right to a decision by the legally competent court (recht auf den gesetzlichen richter) because the federal court of justice had rejected a complaint against the refusal of leave to appeal on points of law and had not provided any reasoning. interpreting this provision, the cjeu held in the case of s.r.l. v. ministry of health (c‑283/81, judgment of 6 october 1982, ecli:eu:c:1982:335, § 21) that:
“... a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is required, where a question of community law is raised before it, to comply with its obligation to bring the matter before the court [of justice], unless it has established that the question raised is irrelevant or that the community provision in question has already been interpreted by the court or that the correct application of community law is so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt. thus, uncertainty as to the interpretation of the law applicable, including community law, may give rise to review, at last instance, by the supreme court. the court has already held that decisions of a national appellate court which can be challenged by the parties before a supreme court are not decisions of ‘a court or tribunal of a member state against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law’ within the meaning of the third paragraph of article 267. as regards the initiation of preliminary ruling proceedings, the cjeu stated in the case of györgy katz v. istván roland sós (c-404/07, 9 october 2008, ecli:eu:c:2008:553):
“37. ... it is for the national court, not the parties to the main proceedings, to bring a matter before the court of justice.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in druskininkai. he was held in other facilities between 21 june and 5 july 2011; 30 august and 6 september 2011; 27 september and 11 october 2011; 25 october and 8 november 2011; 15 and 17 november 2011; and 6 and 18 january 2012. between those breaks, the periods he had to spend in overcrowded cells were fourteen, fifty‑five, twenty and a half, thirteen, six and a half, forty‑eight and ninety‑five and a half days respectively. after that, he was hospitalised between 7 and 18 january 2012. on 5 january 2012 a prie‑trial investigation was opened regarding destruction of property and serious health impairment caused by negligence. on 9 january 2012 a commission was set up to establish the circumstances surrounding the fire and the actions of the officers of lukiškės remand prison during the fire. on 14 august 2012 the experts received a task to answer two questions: where did the fire start and what was the reason of the fire. it also noted that eight persons had been taken to a hospital and 217 persons had been evacuated. he and other inmates had wet towels and put them on their faces. on the same day he asked to be granted victim status. the following investigative actions had been performed: the scene of the accident had been examined; the electrics had been inspected; various reports had been received; several witnesses had been questioned; and medical examinations of the victims had been carried out. in december 2012 lukiškės remand prison submitted their comments and, as regards the fire, they claimed the prison officers had been instructing the prisoners to put wet towels on their faces. the prison officers had also been given instructions on what actions to take. on 30 january 2013 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the applicant had not had enough personal space for 268 days, ten evenings and three mornings, and that this had constituted a violation of both the domestic norms and article 3 of the convention. the applicant had been referred to a psychiatrist later and had received medication. the authorities had not indicated within what period of time the applicant had received medical help and what that help had entailed. the applicant had stated that he had spent approximately ninety minutes in a cell full of smoke. the court held that the fact that the applicant had been taken to hospital in a coma had proven that the authorities had failed to evacuate him on time. however, it had not been proved that the officers had acted in a manner prescribed by the law in order to avoid negative consequences to the applicant’s health. the applicant and the authorities appealed.
the applicant, editorial board of grivna newspaper, is a ukrainian single shareholder company which has its registered offices in kherson. the passages which were the subject of the domestic proceedings are underlined and numbered for reference. but this gathering of people with different views and business interests under the same roof sometimes produces unpredictable decisions. however, the fact that the mps have ‘rejected the advances’ of the president of the kherson court of appeal, mr i. (получил от народных депутатов «гарбуза») [a1] speaks volumes. we will provide our readers with a brief reminder about mr i. based only on our own publications which, by the way, have not been challenged. [ but the first official documents had appeared right after i. took up his position and they corroborate the above-mentioned reasoning. so i. has been ‘duly punished’ at the very dawn of his career. i. denied any wrongdoing and stated that all complaints had been checked by the appropriate authorities and found baseless. he was shown in formal attire, with a neutral facial expression, apparently sitting at a desk. under the photograph the following caption appeared:
“i will recompense them according to their deeds (old testament)[1]
mr i. is shown in the photo” 16. on 28 april 2006 the applicant company asked the first-instance court to postpone hearings in the case until the supreme court had ruled on its reassignment application. the court decided not to postpone the hearings. (iv) the defendant had failed to prove the truth of the factual statement a6 or to point to the source of that information. while it was established that the photograph with the biblical quote (see paragraph 15 above) had been taken at an official meeting on 5 may 2005, it presented only i. and not the event in general and so was unrelated to the event. it was thus a value judgment and was true. newspapers which take a consistent line in favour of a just and honest judicial system are being targeted. according to the applicant company, in the course of the trial it produced as proof of the factual grounds for the impugned statements twenty-four articles published in the local newspapers from 1997 to 2006. (ii) according to the case-law of the european court of human rights the fact that subjects of the published information had public status made such persons more open to criticism but did not deprive them of the right to sue to defend their reputation. in lingens v. austria (8 july 1986, § 46, series a no. the first-instance court had not established that the journalist had acted in good faith and checked the information she disseminated and, accordingly, no exemption from liability under the state support of media act applied (see paragraph 51 below).
the applicant is a media company with its registered office in ankara. on 5 november 1998 the trademark was registered in the name of the company for a period of ten years. in february and march 1999 kamoy araştırma published a newspaper entitled özlenen gazete vatan. in march 1999 it halted the publication of the newspaper owing to financial reasons. on 4 september 2002, bağımsız gazetecilik yayıncılık a.ş. ( during the course of the proceedings the trademark was transferred to the applicant company, which subsequently became a party to the proceedings. it noted that while the applicant company had indeed registered the name “vatan”, which was common to both newspapers, bağımsız gazetecilik had the “declaration of intention to publish a periodical” (mevkute beyannamesi – hereinafter “declaration of a periodical”) dated 1974, which allowed it to publish with that name. the report pointed out that the newspaper vatan had been published since 1975 and that the name had become recognisable long before the applicant company had applied for registration. 556, which made reference to the recognisability of a trademark, it should be accepted that it was bağımsız gazetecilik that had actually made the name a recognised brand. on 27 january 2004 the istanbul intellectual property court dismissed the applicant company’s claim. in line with the findings of the expert report, it held that the name “vatan” had become well-known as a newspaper prior to the applicant company’s application for its registration as a trademark and that the applicant company, whose application should actually have been rejected by the patent institute, could not be considered to have brought the case in good faith. the applicant company appealed against the judgment. noting that its rights to the trademark at issue were still valid, it argued that turkish law provided for the absolute protection of a registered trademark. on 6 may 2005 the court of cassation upheld the judgment on the basis of the second reasoning relied on by the intellectual property court. it found that despite that provision, since the applicant company had already registered the trademark, it would have priority over an unregistered trademark, albeit a recognisable one. the applicant company applied for rectification of that judgment, arguing that the retrospective application of section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act put the other party in a privileged position. after having established that a trademark constituted a possession, the constitutional court stated that legislative decree no. on 17 february 2005 the ankara intellectual property court ruled that the registration in the name of the applicant company be declared void, finding that vatan had become well-known as a newspaper before the applicant company’s registration. that judgment became final by a decision of the court of cassation on 12 june 2006. on 9 november 2006 the applicant company’s trademark registration was removed from the register of the patent institute.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in voronezhskaya, krasnodar region. on 28 july 2015 the applicant published on youtube a video with the title “kolkhoz tv on ukrainian crisis” (колхозное телевидение об украинском кризисе) where he made comments on ms f.’s speech as follows:
“ms f.: nobody in the whole world has ever thought that russia would become such a strong country and ... that russia would reach new horizons...
the applicant (mr r.): nodding ironically, showing the brochure “life of a galley slave”. mr r.: yet today, according to the latest reports of the mendeleyev international rating agency, russia has reached the top of the list, drawing ahead of such gases as carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. ms f.: ...there is a war against russia, which has become a first-rate power and everybody is annoyed by this fact...they want us to die of drug and alcohol abuse and poverty etc. mr r.: but it is not true that we die of alcohol, drugs and poverty... poverty? mr r.: but who is ‘the leading leader among gases’? ms f.: so, slavyansk means gas...
mr r.: slavyansk means gas. this proves that slavyansk belongs to us on lawful grounds. you have said that a war has been declared on us. ms f.: ... we may not interfere [with what is happening in ukraine]. yes, we are sorry, yes, people die there. as has previously been said, what if our people go there and die? mr r.: what, [beep] you are talking about?! mr r.: ... because this breaks with long traditions and principles: to stay in a horsebox and eat all this sh** coming from the television. on 11 january 2016 ms f. brought an action against the applicant, stating that he had offended her and had harmed her reputation. ... ms f., the head of the ust-labinsk district, has sustained damage of a non‑pecuniary nature due to emotional distress caused by the defendant’s defamatory and discrediting statements and allusions to her unethical conduct. on 24 february 2016 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 28 january 2016. however this word had been an interjection rather than an offence, and had been bleeped out. the applicant emphasised that the first-instance court had established that ms f. was a public person who should tolerate critics, but had still issued a decision violating freedom of political speech. on 1 august and 1 november 2016 the krasnodar regional court and the supreme court of russia dismissed the applicant’s cassation appeals.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in szigetvár-becefa. according to the police record, he waived his right to counsel and immediately admitted to his involvement in the offence in question. no fracture was found, but a bruise was noted at rib cage level. on 6 february 2013 the applicant initiated proceedings on account of ill-treatment inflicted by the police in order to extort a confession. on 28 march 2013 the applicant was examined by the pécs investigating prosecutor. he contended that, on the morning of 4 february 2013, he had been questioned by five police officers. when he had denied his involvement in the offence, one of them (wearing gloves) had slapped him on both cheeks several times. another officer had then ordered him to stand up and when he had done so, the officer had kicked him in the chest so that he had fallen back onto the chair. the third officer had slapped him in the face once or twice, and had punched him in the stomach once. the applicant could name two of the officers whom he knew from previous police visits to his village: one of them – who had been in charge of his questioning on 4 february 2013 – had not hit him, while the other one had only “dropped by” but had allegedly taken part in his beating. he gave a description of the two unknown officers who he alleged had beaten him. on 16 october 2013 the prosecutor questioned the police officer who had been in charge of questioning the applicant on 4 february 2013. the police officer firmly denied any kind of ill-treatment and said that, after his release, the applicant had met someone who he had alleged had participated in the crime. on the basis of the documents previously drawn up by the general practitioner and the doctor at pécs hospital, the expert concluded that the applicant’s visible injuries, namely the hyperaemia on his face and a minor wound in his mouth, might have resulted from a single slap inflicted with medium force – the wound being caused by the canine tooth colliding with the mucous membrane. on 15 november 2013 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation. the applicant lodged a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision, arguing, among other things, that the authorities had failed to organise a confrontation between him and the police officer in charge in order to resolve the discrepancies in their statements, or an identification parade in order for the applicant to identify the police officers involved. it stressed that further investigative steps (a confrontation or an identification parade) would have been necessary only if the medical expert had substantiated the applicant’s allegations, which he had not. since the fact of ill-treatment by the police as such was not sufficiently proven, there was no need for further investigation into the identity of the alleged perpetrators. it also noted that the witnesses had not seen the alleged ill-treatment taking place. this final decision was allegedly served on the applicant on 17 december 2013.
the applicant company is registered in vilnius. it provides heating, cooling, ventilation and air conditioning equipment in lithuania. during that period the applicant company bought some goods and declared them as air conditioning equipment, comprising of one unit and its parts. as a result, the applicant company was ordered to pay 618,083 euros (eur) in total as customs tax, value added tax, late payment interest and a fine. in december 2013 the customs office carried out an additional investigation. it held that in the absence of any evidence that could prove that employees of the applicant company were not related to the american company, it had to conclude that the buyer and seller were related. the customs office also refused to approve twenty‑three import declarations provided by the applicant company and calculated the value of the imported goods in accordance with council regulation (eec) no. moreover, the applicant company disagreed with the late payment interest because it had increased due to the protractedness of the investigation of the customs office. the applicant company appealed against that decision to the tax disputes commission, providing documents from the seller company proving that none of its employees were also employed by the applicant company. the applicant company complained to the vilnius regional administrative court. on 22 january 2015 the vilnius regional administrative court rejected the applicant company’s complaint as unfounded. the applicant company appealed against that decision. moreover, the decision of the first‑instance court had lacked reasoning. - (3) if the seller authorises the buyer’s employees to perform certain actions related to the transportation and the customs procedures of the goods, can this be considered a relationship between buyer and seller, within the meaning of article 29 § 1 (d) of the community customs code, and can it be grounds not to apply the transaction value method? - (5) is the provision of domestic law that the customs office use data existing in the customs department database when applying the transaction value method of similar and identical goods in accordance with article 31 § 1 of the community customs code, which provides that where the customs value of imported goods cannot be determined under articles 29 or 30, it must be determined on the basis of data available in the community? this was why the question of whether a court had failed to fulfil the obligation to state reasons, deriving from article 6 of the convention, could only be determined in the light of the circumstances of the case. the supreme administrative court relied on the following authorities: hiro balani v. spain, 9 december 1994, § 27, series a no. 37801/97, § 34, 1 july 2003, series a no. also, the mere fact that a party to the proceedings did not agree with the interpretation of the law provided by the first‑instance court did not mean that the substance of the european union law was not clear and that there was a necessity to refer the question to the cjeu (pastebėtina, kad vien faktinė aplinkybė, jog ginčo šalis nesutinka su pirmosios instancijos teismo pateiktu teisės aiškinimu, savaime nereiškia, jog nėra aiškus europos sąjungos teisės turinys, ir, atitinkamai, kad yra pagrindas kreiptis į estt prejudicinio sprendimo). in april 2017 the supreme administrative court dismissed a request lodged by the applicant company to reopen the proceedings.
the applicant, a former member of the turkish constitutional court, is a turkish national who was born in 1968 and lives in ankara. on 16 july 2016, in the course of the criminal investigation opened by the ankara public prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 14 above), the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on the instructions of the same office, which described him as a member of the fetö/pdy terrorist organisation and urged that he be placed in pre-trial detention. on 19 july 2016 the applicant was questioned by the ankara public prosecutor. he requested that his client be released on bail. in addition, he argued that the order for his detention did not contain any specific grounds relating to him and was not based on any fact justifying such a measure. on various other occasions, the applicant applied for release on bail. on 7 september 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. with regard to the complaint concerning the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention in police custody, the constitutional court held that he should have brought an action under article 141 § 1 (a) of the ccp but had refrained from doing so. the evidence can be summarised as follows. (a)  statements by anonymous witnesses 33. his social contacts were what led me to reach this conclusion ...”
(b)  statements by a suspect 35. the relevant parts of his statement recorded on 9 september 2016 read as follows:
“... previously, i did not know that the former member of the constitutional court alparslan altan was a member of the cemaat ... however, when i noticed that this member was always in the minority in [decisions on] individual applications in which members of the cemaat were involved, i became firmly convinced that he could be a member of the cemaat ... i had already imagined, from conversations between members of the cemaat, that some members of the constitutional court might belong to [this structure]. according to the investigating authorities, ö.i̇., a teacher, was the “lay imam” responsible for members of the judiciary belonging to the fetö/pdy organisation (according to the public prosecutor’s office, each of the structure’s cells that had infiltrated the administrative and judicial authorities was led by a “lay imam”); s.e., the plenary criminal divisions of the court of cassation have also held in a case concerning the conviction of two judges ... that ‘as the current and consistent position of the court of cassation makes clear, regarding the offence of membership of an armed terrorist organisation, which is a continuing offence, except in cases where [its continuing nature ends with] the dissolution of the organisation or termination of membership, the continuing nature [of the offence] may be interrupted by the offender’s arrest. via bylock, certain references were made to [the applicant]. who has been dismissed from his post, has fled and a warrant has been issued for his arrest. he has been dismissed from the position of judge by the council of judges and prosecutors and has been placed in pre-trial detention on suspicion of being a member of the fetö/pdy organisation. it added that it was obvious that the applicant, as a member of that court himself, might be in an easier position than others to interfere with the evidence. in his application of 3 july 2017 he alleged a violation of articles 6, 8 and 14 of the convention. in his application of 26 july 2018 he complained in particular that the length of his pre-trial detention had been excessive.
the applicants are all roma who live in vâlcele. at around 5 a.m. on the morning of 15 december 2011 several police officers and gendarmes, together with the local forest ranger – all wearing special intervention clothing – knocked on the applicants’ door, claiming to be their neighbours. they dragged him onto the ground, kicked him and shouted abuse. out of a total population of 4,300 inhabitants, 2,902 are of roma ethnicity. the third applicant came out of the house, shouted abuse at the police officers and became physically violent. for safety reasons, they handcuffed him and took him to the same police car where the third applicant was waiting. she refused to undergo further medical examinations. it stated that he had complained of chest pain and had two bruises on his chest. it was concluded that the trauma could have been caused by being hit with a hard object and that on account of the injuries, the first applicant needed one to two days of medical care. on 21 december 2011 a forensic medical report was drawn up for the fourth applicant. it was concluded that her injuries could have been caused by being hit with a hard object and that she needed one to two days of medical care. on 20 february 2012 the applicants lodged a criminal complaint against the forest ranger and the police officers on duty on 15 december 2011. the applicants had proposed that they be questioned. explained that the use of force and the handcuffing had been necessary because of the applicants’ violent behaviour. they argued mainly that the prosecutor, without justification, had given preference to the statements made by the police to the detriment of those made by the applicants. it mainly considered that the authorities had to provide justification for the injuries sustained by the applicants. a new investigation was carried out under the supervision of the same prosecutor from the prosecutor’s office attached to the braşov court of appeal. likewise, on 15 july 2013 another police officer had had to open fire in self-defence against an individual who had broken the windscreen of a police car during a police intervention triggered by a distress call. the second and fourth applicants had been injured when they had attacked the police officers in order to prevent them from immobilising their family members. the prosecutor reiterated the explanation given in the police report about the behaviour allegedly exhibited by the second and fourth applicants.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is serving his life sentence in a prison. a resident of same village, and found clothes bearing blood traces. was summoned in the context of these proceedings by a prosecutor; however, he did not appear. who had wished to take revenge on the women because she believed that one of them had been having an affair with her partner and that the other one had facilitated the start of the affair. they had then entered the house carrying the knives given to them by dor. the applicant had entered first and had seen three women in the kitchen – d. and two others whom he did not know. then g. and the applicant had gone to dor. he submitted, inter alia, that he had not witnessed the moment at which g. had hidden the knife, but had only been made aware of the hiding place when g. had told him about it. on the same day, at 7.30 p.m., the investigator drew up an arrest report ordering the applicant’s detention as a suspect in the premeditated murder of d. and s. according to the report, the applicant was arrested on the grounds of his statement of surrender and confession, and his right to a lawyer was explained to him. when signing the document, the applicant noted that he wished to be legally represented. he repeated his earlier statements, elaborating on them in detail: he did not deny that he had murdered d. and s., but he did deny that he had done so for profit. no record of her questioning has been submitted to the court. when doing so, however, he persistently denied that he had committed the murder for profit. as in normal circumstances he would have never killed d., as he had known her well and had been on good terms with her. on the same date the applicant’s charges were amended accordingly. his request was allowed and, on 24 june 2005, sk., on 25 july 2005 the regional court, sitting as a court of first instance, found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. having examined the applicant’s medical file and having watched the video recordings of procedural actions undertaken with his participation, it concluded that there was no evidence that the applicant had suffered any physical injuries at the hands of the police. his right to remain silent and to legal counsel had not been explained to him until the investigator had obtained, by means of ill-treatment, detailed confessions from him. on 26 august 2009 the applicant asked the regional court to provide him with copies of his appeals in cassation.
the applicant was born in 1960 and died in 2012. in view of his allegations the next day the investigator requested a forensic medical opinion concerning his injuries. the expert noted that the applicant was alleging that he had been tortured. on 16 august 2003 the applicant was released. on 20 february 2007, based in part on o.’s new evidence, the applicant was again arrested on suspicion of the murder. o. was examined and cross-examined by the defence in court on 10 october 2007. she confirmed her testimony incriminating the applicant. she also asked to be examined again in court. the investigation was conducted by the nemyriv district prosecutor. o., who was still in prison at the time, was questioned. she reaffirmed her incriminating statements as having been made of her own free will and stated that she had written to the trial court because one of the applicant’s lawyers had said, in the course of the cross-examination, that she might be criminally liable for any false statements. on 6 december 2007 the prosecutor refused to institute criminal proceedings against s. for lack of constituent elements of a crime in his actions. on 11 january 2008 the trial court received another letter from o., in which she retracted her previous letter. the defence again asked that she be called. the trial court refused to recall her as a witness. as to o.’s evidence, the trial court stated that she had reiterated her pre-trial statement in the course of the trial in the applicant’s presence and that there had been no reason to distrust that testimony. on 10 july 2008, in a final decision, a panel of three judges of the supreme court upheld the trial court’s judgment. on 5 june 2009 the plenary formation of the court held that the arguments cited by the five judges could only serve as a basis for reopening the proceedings if they had been first investigated by the prosecutor’s office and found to be “newly established circumstances” justifying a reopening (see paragraph 42 below). the parties did not inform the court whether the applicant attempted to initiate, before the prosecutor’s office, an investigation of the type mentioned by the plenary formation of the supreme court. in the application, lodged by his initial representative on his behalf on 9 january 2009, the applicant described, in the “statement of the facts” section of the form, the ill-treatment he had allegedly suffered in august 2003 (see paragraph 11 above).
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. a popular figure of bulgarian politics, has for many years been the leader of a trade union. is the second largest in bulgaria, with a membership of about 150,000. the names of a number of persons were listed after that, including the “pseudo trade unionist” k.t. the list ended with a reference to a footnote which quoted a 2002 article by another author published in a news magazine. brought a tort action against the applicant, stating that the allegations contained in the book, namely that he was a freemason, a communist connected with the former secret services and a “pseudo trade unionist”, were untrue and defamatory. he stated that he was a fervent christian, which meant that he could not be a freemason, as the church had condemned freemasonry, that he had never been a member of the bulgarian communist party or the youth communist organisation, and that he had not been connected with the communist secret services, but had, on the contrary, all his life fought for human rights and democracy. had himself stated in a newspaper interview that he was a member of the maltese order. had not shown that he had indeed suffered non-pecuniary damage as a result. the applicant was legally represented throughout the proceedings that ensued. it analysed the allegations made by him and concluded that they had been untrue. felt offended by the applicant’s allegations, that sufficed. was a public figure justified a higher award of damages such as the one made by the city court. instituted subsequently enforcement proceedings. abandoned his attempts to obtain payment, with the sum seized from the applicant amounting to merely bgn 4.55 (eur 2.32). on 30 june 2018 the applicant published a comment on these observations on his personal blog. stigmatizing, pointing an accusing finger, uttering insults and putting labels are completely different things. what is sadder is that they come from the government of a country which is a member of the european union. to walk this road to the end and to drain the bitter cup. and to show convincingly one more time that the world is communist.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in vodnjan. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 9 july 2010 the applicant was indicted before the pula-pola municipal court (općinski sud u puli-pola) on charges of indecent behaviour. he was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). during the proceedings before the first- and the second-instance courts he was represented by a lawyer, m.k. on 11 october 2011 the pula-pola municipal court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. on 7 november 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the pula‑pola county court (županijski sud u puli-pola), challenging the factual and legal grounds for his conviction and sentence. he did not ask that he or his lawyer be invited to the session of the appeal panel. on 7 december 2011 the pula-pola county state attorney’s office returned the case file to pula-pola county court accompanied by a submission which read as follows:
“in the criminal case against slobodan kliba, accused of the criminal offence referred to in article 193 § 2 in conjunction with article 192 § 1 of the criminal code, the defence lodged an appeal against the judgment of the pula municipal court no. k-344/10 of 11 october 2011 complaining about errors of facts, alleging that the criminal code had been violated and challenging the sanction as well as the decision concerning costs and expenses. i consider the appeal unfounded, therefore i propose that it be dismissed as in my opinion the facts in the criminal proceedings in question were duly established. the criminal code was not violated and the sanction inflicted is appropriate, considering the type and seriousness of the criminal offence of which the accused was found guilty. the costs of proceedings were properly estimated and can be borne by the accused, regard being had to his financial status.” the submission in question was not forwarded to the defence. on 20 january 2012 the pula-pola county court held a session which the parties did not attend. on the same day it dismissed the appeal as unfounded and upheld the first-instance judgment. on 13 march 2012 the applicant, represented by lawyer v.d.l., on 14 january 2016 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded. it held that the fact that the pula-pola county state attorney’s office submission of 12 july 2013 had not been forwarded to the applicant had not breached his constitutional rights, having regard to the content of the submission, the fact that he had been tried in summary proceedings and that he had not asked that he or his lawyer be invited to the session of the appeal panel. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 2 february 2016.
the applicants were born in 1975 and live in târgu-mureş. they had held those positions since 29 june 2000. 137/2000 on preventing and punishing all forms of discrimination) and of article 14 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 12 to the convention, the applicants brought an action in the mureş county court seeking compensation equivalent to the “loyalty bonus” (spor de fidelitate) to which they felt they had been entitled in respect of their salary since december 2004. in a judgment of 14 february 2008 the county court allowed the claim. the judgment was immediately enforceable. it considered firstly that the anti‑discrimination ordinance applied to the applicants’ situation and on this point it dismissed the defendant party’s allegations of a breach of the principles of the separation of powers by the courts. meanwhile, on 14 october 2008 the authorities paid each of the applicants 30% of the amount they were entitled to receive as compensation for the period from december 2004 to july 2008. on 27 november 2008 the applicants lodged an application for correction of material errors in the final decision adopted by the court of appeal in their case. on 20 november 2008 the ministry of justice lodged an extraordinary appeal against the final decision of 30 may 2008, claiming that the court of appeal had failed to examine the grounds of appeal as stated by the defendants. on 7 january 2009 the applicants, who had received a copy of the defendant party’s submissions, added their observations to the file. they also raised an objection of unconstitutionality of articles 318 and 319 of the ccp, which in their view, by allowing for an open-ended possibility of lodging the extraordinary appeal, contradicted the right of access to court guaranteed by article 21 of the constitution and by article 6 § 1 of the convention, the latter having been incorporated into domestic law by article 20 of the constitution. the court of appeal sitting in a different formation held a hearing on 14 october 2009. the court of appeal referred to a completely different legal matter, which had not been brought before it by the parties, and thus dismissed as unfounded the appeal lodged by the ministry of justice without examining the arguments put before it by [the ministry of justice] by mistakenly copying the reasoning from a different decision, in which it had examined the issue of awarding a confidentiality bonus.” 818 and 821 of 2008; see paragraph 24 below). they relied on the provisions of articles 1-6 and 27 § 1 of the [anti-discrimination ordinance] and of articles 5 and 154 § 3 of the labour code. the provisions of articles 27 § 1 as well as those of article 1 and 2 of the [anti‑discrimination ordinance] were declared unconstitutional by decision no. 821 of 3 july 2008, as well as by decision no. therefore, ... the decision lacks legal basis. for this reason the court will not examine the remaining grounds of unlawfulness, will ... allow the appeal, and will ... reject the action lodged by the [applicants].”
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in uxbridge. the applicant claims to have entered the united kingdom illegally on 18 november 2003. she pleaded guilty to offences of cruelty towards her son and was sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment with a recommendation that she be deported. on 5 august 2008 the home secretary served her with notice of intention to make a deportation order. the present application is the second one made to this court by the applicant. in her first application the applicant complained about her detention from 8 august 2008 to 28 april 2010. removal directions were set for a flight departing on 7 february 2011, but the high court enjoined the home secretary from effecting removal on 4 february 2011. on 10 february 2011 dr a-d, a clinical psychologist, prepared a psychological report on the instruction of the applicant’s representatives. she concluded that the applicant had given a plausible history of suffering physical and sexual abuse at the hands of her uncle; that she suffered from particularly severe post-traumatic stress disorder; that she was not receiving appropriate treatment for her mental health problems in detention; that release would benefit her mental health; and that her deportation was likely to precipitate further suicide attempts. on 16 february 2011 the representatives submitted this report to the secretary of state. on 7 march 2011 and 17 june 2011 a tribunal judge refused to grant bail to the applicant. the tribunal judge granted bail on 1 july 2011 and the applicant was released on 6 july 2011. v. the united kingdom, cited above, § 33). the applicant initiated judicial review proceedings of the period of her detention from 22 july 2010 to 6 july 2011. accordingly, i would dismiss this appeal. she could still be held in an acceptable stable mental condition in detention under the existing treatment. in any event, there was a risk of reoffending and absconding. the defects in the reviews already filed speak for themselves.” he went on to comment:
“34... realistically [the applicant] accepts that the proper application of the home secretary’s policy to her case in the light of the report of dr [a-d] would not have led to her immediate release in march 2011. what however is clear is that, even in the absence of any flaw, no decision to release [the applicant] would in any event have been made prior to 6 july 2011.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in yerevan. he was the president of armenia between 1991 and 1998. immediately after the announcement of the preliminary results of the election, the applicant called on his supporters to gather at freedom square in central yerevan in order to protest against the irregularities which had allegedly occurred in the election process, announcing that the election had not been free and fair. it appears that the rallies at freedom square, held during the daytime and late into the night, attracted at times tens of thousands of people, while several hundred demonstrators stayed in that area around the clock, having set up a camp. he himself also stayed at freedom square around the clock, leaving only for two to three hours a day. various political and public figures who had expressed their support for his candidacy, members of his election campaign and other supporters were arrested and charged on various grounds. his telephone conversations and those of his supporters were tapped and various party premises searched. on the same date the applicant applied to the constitutional court, contesting the election results and seeking to annul them. by then the police forces had already encircled the several hundred demonstrators based on the square. please, do not have any contact with them and do not touch them. if they have something to tell us, we are ready to listen. after further attempts to make the applicant leave the square failed, the head of the spd forced the applicant into a car and took him to his house in yerevan. the government contested the applicant’s above-mentioned allegations and alleged the following. firstly, the reason for the police operation of 1 march 2008 at freedom square had been the information obtained the day before by the law enforcement authorities, according to which a large number of weapons were to be distributed to the protesters to incite provocative actions and mass disorder in yerevan. during that time a journalist freely approached the applicant, interviewed him and left. while being taken home, the applicant did not express any wish to go elsewhere. the applicant did not wish to leave the house without state protection. if these reports are confirmed, all allegations of excessive force should be properly investigated. on the same day the spd issued a statement that was broadcast on the public television channel, to the effect that spd officers had decided to remove the applicant from freedom square, pursuant to section 6 § 3 of the act on ensuring the security of persons subject to special state protection, in order to ensure his safety – as a former president of armenia subject to state protection – from any danger posed by the situation created during the police operation in the morning of 1 march 2008. on 8 march 2008 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s application of 29 february 2008.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, and as they appear from the documents submitted by them may be summarised as follows. the applicants and/or their relatives were owners of apartments in yalova. the permits for the building of those apartments were issued on 23 march 1987. 14350/05 and 2 others, 17 november 2015, and hayati çelebi and others v. turkey, no. 582/05, 9 february 2016, for further details about the earthquake). 818) in force at the material time (“the former code of obligations”) (see paragraph 21 below). the representatives of the claimant filed the present lawsuit to claim the value of the damaged apartment. it is a known phenomenon that turkey is located in an earthquake zone. therefore, earthquake-resistant buildings must be built. the public conscience has been hurt because of the earthquake. due to the pain, suffering and losses caused by such an incident it is expected that justice be served. and the judge must be conscious of his responsibility towards society in his or her actions. thus, the judgment of the 2nd criminal chamber of the court of cassation no. it is observed that the building use permit for the building of the claimant’s apartment was obtained on 23 march 1987. the ten-year limitation period for filing a lawsuit has elapsed a long time ago. for the purposes of the economy of the procedure and to the extent that there would be no impact on the result, an on-site survey was not ordered. the unfounded objections of the claimant’s representatives [against this decision] were [thus] inadmissible. on 9 december 2003 the applicants lodged an appeal against the yalova civil court’s decision with the court of cassation. the 13th civil chamber ruled that, having regard to the documents and evidence in the case file, which were relied on by the first-instance court, and in particular to the expiry of the limitation period prescribed by section 125 of the former code of obligations, which started running from the date of the transfer of ownership of the properties in question, the applicants’ grounds for appeal had been unfounded. on that basis, it quashed the first-instance court’s judgment which had found, applying section 125 of the former code of obligations, that the lawsuit had been introduced following the expiry of a period of ten years from the issuance of the building use permit (see hayati çelebi and others, cited above, § 37, for the relevant parts of a similar decision by the 4th civil chamber of the court of cassation dated 11 december 2001).
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in syktyvkar. on 21 september 2015 the applicant, together with ms s., notified the syktyvkar town administration of their intention to hold a “picket” (пикетирование) from 5 to 6 p.m. on 25 september 2015 at the crossroads of lenin and kommunisticheskaya streets behind the lenin monument, which fifty people were expected to attend. any opinions – from approval to criticism of the arrests – were welcome. he asked why mr gaizer had been appointed governor of the komi republic in 2010 if, according to the investigators, he had been a member of a criminal gang since 2006. in any event, appointed governors always served the interests of those who had appointed them. 91-rz of 20 november 2012 [sic] prohibited the holding of public events in stefanovskaya square (see paragraph 34 below). unlike a “picket”, it was not possible to use placards during a “people’s assembly”. on 25 september 2015 the applicant published a third entry on his blog. he claimed, however, that a high participation rate would show that there were many people who were not afraid to express their opinion. the special designated locations proposed by the town administration would have been unsuitable. on 18 november 2015 the syktyvkar town court rejected the applicant’s complaint. after citing article 11 of the convention, the applicable domestic provisions and the constitutional court’s decision of 2 april 2009 (see a summary of the domestic law provisions in lashmankin and others, cited above, §§ 255-59), the court held:
“the complainant’s argument that the event would lose its purpose if held at the locations proposed by [the town administration] is unsubstantiated. the [town administration’s] decision of 21 september 2015 mentioned those locations, de facto proposing them as an alternative [to the location chosen by the applicant]. the complainant was not therefore deprived of a possibility to enjoy his constitutional right to hold [public events] in accordance with the procedure established by [the public events act]. the choice of a location for an event and its approval by the municipal authorities does not restrict the participants’ right to freedom of opinion and expression. the locations proposed were an adequate alternative to the chosen location and were in keeping with its purposes. these arguments are based on an incorrect assessment of the facts of the case and an incorrect interpretation of the applicable legal provisions. on 7 july 2016 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment on appeal, finding that it had been lawful, well reasoned and justified. on 14 december 2016 a judge of the supreme court of the komi republic refused to refer a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant with the presidium of that court for examination. it held, in particular, that calls for participation in public events held in breach of the established procedure were incompatible with public order.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kazan. he called on his supporters to protest on 26 march 2017. mr navalnyy’s followers in many towns notified the local authorities of their intention to hold public assemblies against corruption on 26 march 2017. in the majority of cases the local authorities refused to allow the assemblies. in response to the call by mr navalnyy to protest against corruption, on 14 march 2017 the applicant notified the kazan town administration of her intention to hold a meeting from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on 26 march 2017, which 150 people were expected to attend. the applicant challenged that refusal before the vakhitovskiy district court of kazan. she proposed four alternative sites for the town administration to choose from. on 22 march 2017 the applicant accepted the venue proposed by the town administration for the “picket”. on 23 march 2017 the applicant published a message on vkontakte, criticising the town administration for its decision not to allow the meeting. if another event was scheduled at that location, the town administration had to propose another time for the meeting. the message ended as follows:
“invite your friends to join the group. no such proposals had been made, however. according to the government, during the meeting the police used loudspeakers to order the participants to disperse. at the same time, at 6 p.m., the police also drew up a report on an administrative offence under article 19.3 of the cao. the court noted that the applicant had notified the town administration of her intention to hold a meeting in krylya sovetov park but that the town administration had refused to allow the meeting; it had proposed that she hold a “picket” at another location. there had therefore been no lawful grounds to stop the public event. furthermore, the judicial decision finding [the town administration’s] failure to act unlawful did not amount to an unconditional approval of the location and time of the public event and did not exempt the organiser from fulfilling the obligations imposed by [the public events act]. it then found that on 23 march 2017 she had published a message on vkontakte calling for participation in a meeting to be held on 26 march 2017 in krylya sovetov park, despite the fact that the town administration had refused to approve that meeting and had suggested that the applicant should hold a “picket” at another location. she had therefore campaigned for participation in the public event before it had been approved by the competent regional or municipal authorities. on 9 august 2017 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the judgment of 12 july 2017 on appeal, finding that it had been lawful, well reasoned and justified.
the applicant is registered under hungarian law as a cooperative based in aranyosgadány. the applicant’s aim is to support its members in their agricultural activity, in particular by purchasing expensive machines and lending them to its members free of charge. the members pay a regular “contribution fee” to the cooperative. the applicant considered that the lending of machines constituted the very essence of its economic activities. it therefore deducted the value-added tax paid in respect of the machines from the tax which it was liable to pay. the applicant challenged the decision of the tax authority before the administrative courts. on 17 february 2009 the baranya county court upheld the administrative decision. the supreme court, in review proceedings, upheld that judgment on 26 november 2009. it was the latter that should have been directly applicable in the case before the supreme court. on 31 may 2011 the budapest regional court rejected the applicant’s claim against the supreme court. the regional court was of the view that in that respect the supreme court had duly examined the relevant european union law of its own motion. is the infringement sufficiently serious if the supreme court of a member state denies, in administrative proceedings, an individual’s right to tax deduction without analysing the underlying provision of european law directly or referring the case for a preliminary ruling, in circumstances where the reasoning of the refusal to refer the case [to the cjeu] is based on the supreme court’s reliance on a judgment of the [cjeu] adopted on a different subject and where this latter court has not yet adopted a ruling on the issue at hand?” the applicant complained to the kúria about the above refusal but in vain; on 4 december 2013 it held, in a procedural order (végzés), that no appeal lay against such a decision. it reiterated that the applicant could have relied on the sixth council directive and put forward its arguments concerning the allegedly correct interpretation of domestic law in the light of european union law before the supreme court in the 2009 proceedings. the judgment of the kúria was served on the applicant on 7 february 2014. the applicant’s constitutional complaint contained the following passages:
“the complainant ... does not want to call into question the merits of the kúria’s impugned judgment in the present procedure [but rather complains that] the kúria acted unfairly in the review proceedings ...
the kúria’s procedure was in breach of the claimant’s constitutional right to a fair trial, guaranteed by article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law, in so far as the kúria acted arbitrarily in omitting to refer the case for a preliminary ruling. ... (3)  in court proceedings conducted as a consequence of the quashing of a judicial decision by the constitutional court, the decision of the constitutional court as to the constitutional issue shall be adhered to. the provisions of the old code of civil procedure (act no. everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal previously established by law. everyone shall have the possibility of being advised, defended and represented. ...”
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in san marino. had not returned to him part of the proceeds (lit 9,035,264,332) obtained from the purchase (see paragraph 10 above) and subsequent sale, a few months later, of the shares of company a.n. on behalf of b. in execution of the fiduciary mandate had been correctly recorded in the financial statement. according to the judge, the only evidence that company s.m.i. given the unreliability of the statement, the judge, applying the domestic practice concerning the assessment of documentary evidence, took into consideration only the parts of the statement which constituted evidence against the party which had drafted the document, that is to say, only the credit entries (the sums of money company s.m.i. had claimed to have used in execution of the fiduciary mandate). thus, to compensate for the partial lack of evidence and allow b. to entirely discharge his burden of proof, the judge in the same aforementioned interlocutory judgment summoned b. so that he could take a “supplementary oath” (giuramento suppletorio – an oath of a party on his or her own behalf as confirmation of otherwise inadmissible or inconclusive evidence – for more details, see relevant domestic law, paragraph 68 below). 381-af0770l apart from the ones that i have acknowledged and that [were] indicated in my counsel’s submission of 24 april 2003. appealed against the interlocutory judgment of 4 june 2007. had a remaining debt to b. of lit 9,028,398,950 (eur 4,662,778.93), and ordered it to pay him that sum of money together with default interest and currency revaluation. in turn b. filed a complaint against the applicant, accusing him of slander. since no other funds had been provided by b. for that purpose, and therefore the sum of lit 9,900,000,000 had to be subtracted from the amount of the alleged debt claimed by b. 31. although he was regularly notified of the reopening of the proceedings, b. did not respond. was also added to the case file, amongst other things. on 10 june 2015 the applicant filed written submissions as requested by the court. in any case, having examined all the evidence, in the court’s view, the declaration of falsity of the first part of the statement made by b. under oath did not necessarily impact upon the quantification of the debt since (i) all the parties to the contract of 20 march 1990 had acted under the instructions of the same mastermind (b.), (ii) company p.a. ( according to the applicant, his “jactitation suit” had aimed at ascertaining the existence of actual damage arising from the falsity of the “supplementary oath” and such damage had arisen from the second part of the “supplementary oath” (the one in which b. had claimed the return of a quantified sum) and not the first part. 128 of 30 september 2013 (see paragraph 57 below). he essentially reiterated the same requests which he had already submitted earlier. by a decision of 11 february 2016, judge l.f.,
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in vienna. on 23 july 2009 a letter signed by the applicant was sent to the sofia municipality. the applicant had become aware of that during his stay in sofia in may 2009. had been the beneficiary under both of them. the applicant indicated an intention to challenge these deeds in court. initiated a private criminal prosecution of the applicant. had committed a criminal offence, namely using a forged document. the applicant objected to the complaint against him, contending that what he had stated was true and that he had never claimed that a.k. the domestic court stated expressly in that judgment that it did not have to establish the elements of the criminal offence of defamation. had become the owner of part of the property at issue after his mother had donated to him a share in 1983 and he had purchased another share from a co-owner in 1995. both transactions had been attested in notarial deeds. in 2006 he had obtained a permit to enlarge the existing house. the construction works had been carried out in 2006 and 2007. a representative of the building control authorities had visited the site on 2 july 2009 and had established breaches of the relevant rules, but no administrative sanction had been ordered against a.k. an additional check had been carried out on 26 november 2009, after one of the co-owners of the property (not the applicant) had complained. had not been ordered to demolish the unlawfully constructed parts. had been sent to the municipality on 13 may 2010. ’s professional reputation, since he was working in construction. had enjoyed a good name in society, that the applicant’s allegations had also affected a.k. nor has he claimed to have made any such payment.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in charlotte, north carolina (the united states of america). the case concerns “non-contentious” proceedings for the return of the child instituted on 13 october 2011 in which the domestic courts refused to order the return of the applicant’s son to the united states after the child’s mother (a croatian national and the applicant’s former wife) had in august 2011 “wrongfully retained” him in croatia within the meaning of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”). specifically, on 15 march 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), without holding a single hearing, dismissed the applicant’s request for the return of the child. following an appeal by the applicant, on 2 july 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) quashed the municipal court’s decision and remitted the case. in so deciding it, inter alia, instructed the municipal court to hold a hearing. in the fresh proceedings the municipal court obtained an opinion from a forensic expert in psychiatry on whether returning the child to the united states would expose him to psychological harm – that is, to a risk envisaged in article 13 paragraph 1 (b) of the hague convention (see paragraph 27 below with further references). on 21 may 2014 that court, without holding a hearing, again dismissed the applicant’s request for his son to be returned to the united states. this decision was upheld on appeal by the zagreb county court on 22 october 2014. those return proceedings (see paragraphs 6-8 above) were already subject to the examination by the court. in the first adžić case the court in the judgment of 12 march 2015 held that the domestic authorities had failed to act expeditiously in the proceedings in question. the court had accordingly found a violation of the state’s positive obligations under article 8 of the convention (see adžić v. croatia, no. at the time the court adopted its judgment, i.e. 17 february 2015, the proceedings were still pending before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) upon a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant. in his constitutional complaint the applicant complained of a violation of his right to fair procedure, in particular of a breach of his right to an oral hearing and a breach of the principle of equality of arms and the adversarial principle. more specifically, the applicant submitted that the ordinary courts had not held a single hearing in the case and that the first‑instance court had not informed him of its decision to obtain an opinion from a forensic expert in psychiatry, thus preventing him from objecting to the choice of expert. he further complained that he had not been involved in the expert’s assessment, even though he had previously expressed his willingness to make himself available for such an assessment. the applicant also complained that the domestic court’s refusal to order the return of his son constituted a violation of his right to respect for family life. by a decision of 28 october 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. it served its decision on his representative on 4 december 2015. the constitutional court examined only the alleged violation of the applicant’s right to fair procedure, because it considered that the alleged violation of his right to family life had been addressed by the court in the first adžić case (see paragraph 9 above). the other relevant facts of the case are set out in detail in the court’s judgment in the first adžić case (see adžić, cited above, §§ 6-57).
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1976 respectively and are detained in kharp. the applicants were co-defendants in domestic criminal proceedings. he was subsequently detained on an unspecified date. on 13 september 2004 the district court scheduled a preliminary hearing in the criminal case and also held that the applicant should remain in detention, pending trial (article 228 of the ccrp). apparently, the case was resubmitted to the court in or around august 2006. on 21 december 2006 the applicant was convicted of an armed robbery undertaken by a group of people. on 14 june 2007 the regional court upheld the judgment. in addition, this court takes into account the decision of 21 april 2004 in the part concerning the dismissal of the application for release and the decision to maintain detention on remand. where a case concerns a defendant who is detained on remand, a judge must decide within fourteen days. the appeal court pointed out that the information had been true and non-defamatory, since it had “corresponded to the information [adduced by] the preliminary investigation”; it was important to apprise the public of the appearance of the person in relation to a case receiving media coverage. by a default judgment (заочное решение – that is to say without hearing either of the parties) of 7 september 2011, the town court considered that the respondent had failed to prove the veracity of the impugned statements; the court awarded mr mityanin 5,000 russian roubles (rub) in respect of non-pecuniary damage and ordered the newspaper to publish a refutation. it appears that this judgment was not appealed against, and thus became final. on 4 december 2003 the applicant was arrested in the town of syktyvkar on suspicion of committing robbery and theft in syktyvkar. on 29 january 2004 his detention was extended until 19 february 2004. on 7 september 2004 the case was submitted to the oktyabrskiy district court of the ivanovo region. on 13 september 2004 the district court ordered that the applicant’s detention pending trial be continued. in august 2005 the criminal case was resubmitted for trial before the district court. it appears that in february 2006 the court again returned the case to the prosecutor. he was then transferred to a prison in the komi republic. having listed the relevant provisions of article 5 of the convention, the ccrp and the code of civil procedure as well as the procedural history of the criminal case (see paragraphs 33-34 above), the court concluded that the applicant’s detention during the impugned period had been in compliance with the legislation in force at the time in question; that the head of the remand centre had had no legal basis for releasing the applicant, having information that the criminal case had been pending before a trial court.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in vratsa. in 1991, following the adoption of the agricultural land act which provided, inter alia, for the restitution of formerly collectivised land, the applicant applied for the restitution of land previously owned by her father. the decision indicated that the heirs of the applicant’s father had established his property title with a notarial deed. under further conditions, those plots are subject to restitution in favour of the pre‑collectivisation owners. such restitution is to be carried out after the elaboration of a detailed cadastral plan of the respective area and, on its basis, a so-called plan of the newly-created plots. during the years after 1996 the applicant kept sending letters to different bodies, seeking the completion of the restitution procedure. she was informed that she had to await the elaboration of the above-mentioned plans. such plans for the territory of the oryahovo municipality were prepared and approved by the relevant authorities in 2010. thus, the municipality was not competent to take any decision to finalise the restitution procedure. it informed the applicant that the plot claimed by her was considered state property and was held and managed by the ministry of agriculture and forests. after the applicant contacted once again the ministry, it informed her, in an undated letter, that she was to address its local branch, the oryahovo agriculture department (former land commission). in another letter dated 11 april 2017, replying to a further request by the applicant to finalise the restitution procedure, the oryahovo agriculture department stated that its decision of 20 may 1996, indicating that the applicant’s plot was covered by section 4 and was to be restituted under the procedure concerning such plots, was final, and that the time-limit for seeking its revocation or rectification had expired. in a further undated letter, replying to a fresh complaint by the applicant, the ministry of agriculture and forests instructed her to submit a written request under section 45d of the regulations on the application of the agricultural land act (hereinafter “section 45d”, see paragraph 21 below). the same was reiterated by the ministry of agriculture and forests on 30 august 2017, after it was once again contacted by the applicant. on 8 september 2017 the oryahovo agriculture department sent a letter to the applicant, listing the documents she needed to submit to enable the completion of the restitution procedure. these were: a written request under section 45d; an inheritance certificate; notarial deeds, court decisions and any other documents establishing the title to property; documents sent to the applicant by the oryahovo municipality concerning the procedure under section 4; a plan prepared by a certified geodesist, indicating the exact borders of the plot of land. on 19 september 2017 the applicant submitted a written request under section 45d, which was not accompanied by the remaining documents. the necessity to submit those documents was reiterated in three additional letters sent to the applicant by the oryahovo agriculture department, dated 23 october and 15 and 23 november 2017. in the meantime, the department requested ex officio from the municipality any relevant documents concerning the procedure conducted by the latter under section 4. it appears that there were no other relevant developments after that.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in golasowice. i ns 57/99) the jastrzębie zdrój district court allowed the applicant’s claim. the other party appealed against this decision. two experts declined the invitation to prepare an opinion, and the third expert approached by the court eventually prepared it on 17 october 2001. in march 2002 they requested preparation of another expert opinion. it appears that the next hearing was held on 23 april 2002. on 12 november 2002 the court held a viewing of the property. the opinion was submitted to the court on 11 april 2003. the expert was questioned at a hearing on 3 july 2003. on 2 june 2005 the jastrzębie zdrój district court allowed, in essence, the applicant’s claim (file no. iii ca 1322/05) the gliwice regional court quashed the first-instance decision and remitted the case for the second time. at a hearing on 26 june 2006 the court requested preparation of an expert geological opinion. at a hearing on 23 july 2008 the court questioned the expert and requested the preparation of another expert opinion on the value of the plot of land. the opinion was submitted to the court on 12 january 2009. a hearing was held on 4 march 2010 and on 30 april 2010 the court held a viewing of the land. she stated that she had lodged her claim in 1999 and that her case had still not been examined. iii s 36/04) the gliwice regional court rejected the claim on formal grounds, having found that the applicant “had not specified the circumstances on which her complaint had been based.” subsequently, the applicant lodged another complaint under the 2004 act. iii s 7/06) the gliwice regional court dismissed the claim. it analysed in detail the course of the proceedings after september 2004 and held that they had generally been conducted in a correct and timely manner.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in štip. ethnicity was not among the stated requirements for the posts (see paragraph 20 below). on 28 september 2012 the applicant lodged a request with the ministry of justice for his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll to be changed from that of bulgarian to macedonian. on 15 october 2012 the electoral roll was made available to the štip court of appeal for inspection. since the applicant’s ethnic designation had not been changed, on the same date he lodged a fresh request for it to be rectified (from bulgarian to macedonian), relying on section 17 of the state judicial act (“the act”) (see paragraph 23 below). by a decision of 18 october 2012, the ministry of justice refused the applicant’s request. the applicant lodged an appeal with the administrative court challenging that decision and arguing that the ministry’s decision had not been based on any statutory grounds. the conclusion that his request would have put other judges in a disadvantageous position had been unreasonable and unsubstantiated. it furthermore added that:
“... the request (lodged after the publication of the [election] announcement) for a change to the ethnicity entry was aimed exclusively at the attainment of another [electoral] right that would have put other judges (who had attained their right related to the election of [new] members to [the sjc]), in a disadvantageous position. [ that was established on the basis of extracts from the electoral rolls of october 2006, december 2008 and july 2010 submitted together with the observations in reply to [the applicant’s] claim. in these three electoral rolls [the applicant was] declared [to be] bulgarian. it was unclear how and by what means those judges would have been put in such a position, or indeed which judges would have been affected. furthermore, he contested as irrelevant the findings that his requests had been lodged after the publication of the announcement. he also reiterated his arguments that declaring his own ethnic identity was his personal right. on 2 november 2012 the ministry’s observations in reply were communicated to the applicant. in the present case, [the applicant] requested a rectification – that is to say the modification of his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll. [ on 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted himself for election as a member of the sjc. on an unspecified date, he submitted a written statement affirming that he was of macedonian ethnicity and that his application for election to the sjc had been made with regard to the general list of judges of the courts within the territorial jurisdiction of the štip court of appeal (see paragraph 21 below). the sjc furthermore stated that it was not required under the act to take any decision related to entries in the electoral roll. section 17 of the act specified the procedural rules and the relevant body in respect of their rectification.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in romny. in september 2009 criminal proceedings in respect of fraud and bribery were instituted against the applicant. on 12 january 2010 the romny court convicted the applicant of both charges and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. by the same decision the court remanded him in custody pending the execution of its judgment. on 23 march 2010, upon an appeal by the applicant, the sumy regional court of appeal (“the regional court”) quashed the judgment of 12 january 2010 and remitted the case for retrial. by the same decision it also ordered his continued pre-trial detention, without providing any reasons or indicating a time-limit for it. on 27 april 2010 the applicant asked the romny court to order his release from custody, subject to an undertaking not to abscond. he noted, in particular, that his conviction having been quashed, an undertaking not to abscond would constitute a sufficient measure for ensuring the proper conduct of proceedings. in that regard he submitted that he had no prior criminal record and that the crimes imputed to him were not serious. in addition, he had a permanent residence and had obtained positive character references. he also needed to support a family, including a child, and was suffering from several chronic illnesses which required regular medical supervision and which might deteriorate if he remained in detention. on an unknown date in may 2010 the romny court refused the applicant’s request for release, having found that the crimes imputed to him were sufficiently serious as to potentially warrant a prison sentence of three years or more. it also ruled, without providing any details, that there was sufficient evidence that the applicant might obstruct the proceedings if he were to be released. on 10 february 2011 the applicant again asked to be released from custody pending the proceedings against him, reiterating his previous arguments and emphasising that it was very difficult while in detention to keep to his special diet and secure the necessary medical supervision for his chronic medical conditions. referring to article 5 of the convention, the court noted that, regard being had to the applicant’s character (in particular, his age, health, family and social status, the absence of a prior criminal record and his positive character references), there was no reason to consider that he would abscond, obstruct the investigation or engage in criminal activity if released pending trial. the charge of bribery was dropped by the prosecutor’s office, and the applicant was committed to stand trial on the charge of fraud alone. on 23 november 2012 the romny court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to a fine. however, it released him from any liability to pay the fine levied for the crime for which he had been tried as the time-limit for implementing that sanction had expired. accordingly, the court also terminated the proceedings as time-barred. the applicant did not appeal against this ruling and it became final.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in yerevan. on 5 october 2001 the government adopted decree no. 1151-n by which it approved as an alienation zone real estate situated within the administrative boundaries of the kentron district of yerevan, containing land to be taken for state needs with a total area of 345,000 square metres. this property was included in the alienation zone of real estate to be taken for state needs. the contract also provided for a financial incentive of usd 78,006 to be paid to the applicant. on 13 january 2006 the anti-corruption department of the prosecutor general’s office instituted criminal proceedings against agency officials for deliberately overestimating the market value of the applicant’s property and overpaying her. on 2 april 2007 she received a reply from the head of the agency, stating that she had transferred the amount in question to the agency’s account without any documentary proof. the applicant claimed that she had paid back part of the sales price received because she was confused as a result of her conversation with the head of the agency. in its reply the agency claimed that, by paying back the amount in question, the applicant had in fact accepted that she had been overpaid and for that reason the criminal proceedings had been terminated. on 27 may 2008 the applicant withdrew her claim for damages. the decision also stated that the ministry of finance should have been involved in the proceedings since the applicant’s claims could have implications for the state budget. on 4 august 2009 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan delivered its judgment by which it rejected the applicant’s claims. on 4 may 2010 the civil court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal. the relevant part of the judgment read as follows:
“article 1099 § 4 provides that monetary assets and other property given in fulfilment of non-existent obligations are not subject to return as unjust enrichment if the acquirer proves that the person demanding return of the property had knowledge of the absence of an obligation ...
as a result of the examination of the materials of the civil case it has been revealed that the claimant returned the amount in question on the basis of [the agency’s] demand which was not based either on the law or ... on a contract. ... [the applicant] had no financial obligation towards [the agency]. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. according to article 31, everyone shall have the right to dispose of, use, manage, and bequeath his property in the way he sees fit. no one can be deprived of his property, save by a court in cases prescribed by law. property can be expropriated for the needs of society and the state only in exceptional cases of paramount public interest, in a procedure prescribed by law, and with prior equivalent compensation. according to article 132 § 1, monetary assets are objects of the civil law.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in st petersburg. in 1972 the applicant’s grandmother m. was provided with a flat under a social tenancy agreement. in november 1998 the applicant’s uncle died. m. acknowledged his paternity in respect of his son a., and registered him as living in our dwelling. moshkin yuriy, the father of a., a minor, died in november 1998. the charges for the flat increase every year. we, the claimants, have an income which is below the minimum wage. i have been classed as having a second-degree disability, whereas ansimova dinara [the applicant] is a student...
the defendant does not pay communal charges for her son, who is registered as living in the flat...
taking into account that a., a minor born in 1995, was registered as living in our dwelling but never moved in, he has not acquired any right to those living premises, since registration is an administrative act. the applicant submitted the following arguments in support of her claims. (a)  she had been living in the flat with her grandmother since 1984 and since 1998 had been registered there as m.’s granddaughter. he had always lived with g. in the three-room flat which she owned. the district court found, with reference to articles 53 and 54 of the housing code of the russian soviet federative socialist republic (see “relevant domestic law” below) that both the applicant and g.’s son were registered as living in the flat as the grandchildren of m., the previous tenant. the court considered that g. had proved that her son had moved into the flat and had lived there for some time, but had not been able to move back because the applicant had not let him in. the applicant appealed against that judgment. on 19 june 2008 the city court upheld that judgment. the city court held in particular that in taking its decision in the case, the court of first instance had assessed all the evidence in the case, including the witness testimony, and had reasonably indicated that a. had acquired the right to use the disputed living premises because he had been moved into the flat as a tenant’s family member in accordance with the procedure provided for by law. the city court agreed with the conclusion of the court of first instance that the applicant’s claims had to be dismissed because the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the disputed flat and had shared the same household as the tenant, m., her grandmother. her registration as living in that flat had been of an administrative nature and had not provided her with any right to live there. in such circumstances, the judgment of the court of first instance had been lawful and duly reasoned. on 30 december 2009 the flat from which the applicant had been evicted was transferred to a. by way of privatisation.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in morozivka. on 20 september 2007 the applicant, who was head of the brusyliv district state administration of zhytomyr region at the time, was arrested on charges of bribery. on 21 september 2007 the investigator applied to the court for the applicant’s pre-trial detention as a preventive measure pending trial. no further details were provided in that regard. in the course of reviewing the extension of his detention on 24 september 2007, 8 january, 19 march and 7 august 2008, the applicant raised objections arguing, in particular, that his state of health had been unsatisfactory, that he had a stable family relationship, and that he had not absconded from justice. on 3 october 2008 the malyn district court of zhytomyr region (“the trial court”) committed the applicant for trial. the trial court rejected those requests, giving similar reasons to those given at the initial stage (see paragraph 6 above). the court further stated that the applicant had been provided with the necessary medical treatment in detention and that his state of health did not warrant his release. on 1 december 2010 and 19 may 2011 respectively the zhytomyr regional court of appeal and the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters upheld that judgment with minor amendments. in the course of the criminal proceedings the applicant was transferred between different detention facilities. in particular, he was diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs and chronic venous insufficiency of the lower limbs with trophic disorders. the forensic experts concluded that the applicant required elective surgery in respect of the varicose dilatation, and outpatient treatment in respect of the other conditions. overall, in the course of his detention the applicant was recommended surgery six times in respect of the varicose dilatation, on 16 january 2008, 5 may 2008, 23 october 2008, 18 march 2009, 22 july 2009 and 18 march 2010. on 8 april 2009 the applicant was recognised as falling into the “third category” (the mildest category) of disability (третя група інвалідності). on 22 april 2009 the sizo informed the applicant’s lawyer that he had been diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs, third degree chronic venous insufficiency of the lower left limb, second degree chronic venous insufficiency of the lower right limb, hypothalamic dysfunction, impaired glucose tolerance, first degree diffuse non-toxic goiter (an enlarged thyroid) and a chronic trophic ulcer on the left shin. there is no information in the case file regarding whether the applicant received any medical care after the above-mentioned refusal. on 18 november 2013 the applicant was dispensed from serving the remainder of his sentence pursuant to a decision of the local court of 8 november 2013 altering his imprisonment to correctional labour. on 28 november 2013 the applicant underwent surgery on his lower limbs. according to the available information, from november 2007 to february 2013 the applicant consulted a surgeon thirteen times in respect of the varicose dilatation. outpatient medical treatment was prescribed to him.
the first applicant was born in 1966 and is serving a prison sentence in correctional facility ik-8 in the khabarovsk region. the police officers pushed on the handcuffs. it was noted that he had abrasions and bruising to the right wrist, which was swallowed and hot. the expert concluded that “the injuries had been inflicted by a hard blunt object, as confirmed by bruises and abrasions”, not earlier than three‑five days before the examination (three days as regards the injuries on the wrist joints); that it was unlikely that they could have originated from a fall and that self-harm was not excluded. the applicant had received at least one traumatic impact to his face and no less than three traumatic impacts to his torso. they could not have originated from a fall. on 14 august 2007 the second applicant complained about his alleged ill‑treatment by the ubop police officers to the voronezh regional prosecutor’s office. that the second applicant’s injuries could not have been inflicted by electric current. on 28 march 2007 the applicants were accused of robbery committed in september 2001 and theft. according to the lawyer, hospitalisation had been refused by the investigator who had ordered that the applicant be taken back to the detention facility. it noted that according to the district court’s records of the hearing the applicant’s lawyer had been present. on 17 january 2008 the regional court upheld the decision on appeal. in its decisions for extension of the applicants’ detention of 6 march (concerning both applicants), 17 march 2008 (concerning the first applicant, upheld by the supreme court of russia on 20 may 2008) and 18 march 2008 (concerning the second applicant, upheld on appeal on 20 may 2008) the voronezh regional court relied on the gravity of multiple crimes of which the applicants stood accused (including banditry according to final charges), the risk of their re‑offending and the need to finalise investigative activities involving 36 victims and eight accused and their lawyers. that the first applicant had allegedly threatened them with physical retaliation. had not confirmed their complaints in the course of the relevant inquiry. and m.; the first applicant noted that those victims, not mentioned in the courts’ decisions, had acknowledged at the trial that they had actually not received any threats from the defendants), the first applicant’s criminal records, the defendants’ abuse of their rights by submitting multiple requests the majority of which had been rejected and the resultant protraction of the proceedings and the risk of the defendants exerting pressure on jurors. who stated to have been subjected to violence, including electric shocks, by police officers s. and g. in the presence of investigator m. witness b. stated that he had been taken to one of the ubop offices where the first applicant was lying on the floor face down. 26 from 20 may 2009 to 29 november 2010, and alone in cell no. on 19 march 2012 the first applicant requested the head of the fsin that he be allowed to serve his sentence in the voronezh region where his family resided. on 11 january 2013 the first applicant again requested the fsin that he be transferred to the voronezh region for serving his sentence.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in syria before he came to russia in 2015. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. on 23 march 2016 the applicant was arrested for violation of migration rules. on the same day the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk (“the district court”) imposed an administrative fine on the applicant and ordered his administrative removal and detention until his removal. on 5 april 2016 the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya excluded the removal order from the administrative penalty imposed on him by the district court. on 2 june 2016 the applicant was released. on 3 june 2016 the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya re‑opened the applicant’s case at the request of the migration official and sent it for re-examination to the district court. on 16 june 2016 the district court reviewed the administrative removal order of 23 march 2016 and confirmed its validity. the applicant was detained on the same day. on 12 september 2016 the judgment of 16 june 2016 was upheld by the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya. on 15 july, 7 november and 19 december 2016 and 27 january, 2 march and 10 april 2017 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk allowed an application lodged by the bailiff for the postponement of the enforcement of the order of administrative removal by one month owing to the application of an interim measure by the court on 17 june 2016. however, the district court dismissed her arguments, having concluded that,
“the grounds for the applicant’s detention had already been established by the court in the removal proceedings and the discontinuation of the enforcement proceedings in the circumstances of [the applicant’s] case is not provided for by article 31.7 of the cao” (see paragraph 22 below). all these decisions, except the one of 15 july 2016 (no appeal was brought), were upheld by the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya. on 17 may 2017 the supreme court of the russian federation (“the supreme court”) examined the cassation appeal complaint of the applicant and reviewed the judgments issued in respect of his removal (see paragraph 13 above). the supreme court confirmed the judgments but discontinued the enforcement of administrative penalty in the form of the removal imposed on the applicant on 23 march 2016. the supreme court found that the applicant might be exposed to a risk of torture or ill-treatment in syria in the event of his return there. on 2 june 2017 the applicant was released (after the decision entered into force). according to the applicant, he did not appeal against this decision because the migration authorities had convinced the applicant that “his application for temporary asylum would be granted”. on 4 july 2016 the applicant’s request for temporary asylum was dismissed. on 25 november 2016 a second request lodged by the applicant for temporary asylum was denied by the migration authorities and the applicant did not lodge a complaint against this refusal.
the applicant was born in 1963 and is serving a prison sentence in the perm region. the applicant suspected that the theft had been committed by k. he assigned a number of army privates to search for k. 8. on 29 january 2000 the applicant together with a group of privates and a police officer, m., broke into a flat where k. was hiding. the applicant and the privates took k. with them. on an unspecified date the applicant ordered the privates to beat up sh., a witness in a criminal case who had refused to cooperate. the applicant was present and supervised the beatings. on 29 april 2000 the privates beat up b., another witness in a criminal case, on the applicant’s order. on 8 april 2000 the applicant had a fight with sor. the court relied on forensic evidence and witnesses’ statements. the majority of the witnesses were questioned in court. five of them did not attend and the trial judge, r., read out their statements. the applicant appealed against his conviction. the applicant relied on written statements made by his counsel, b., and by m., a retired serviceman. the judge had talked openly about the applicant’s trial, telling everyone that he would find the applicant guilty and sentence him to a long term of imprisonment. the court made no comment as regards the remaining two witnesses. on an unspecified date the applicant applied for a supervisory review of his conviction. he reiterated the arguments raised in his statement of appeal. on 11 august 2010 the presidium of the military court of the third circuit conducted a new supervisory review of the applicant’s conviction and upheld it. the presidium dismissed as unsubstantiated the applicant’s argument that the trial judge had failed to comply with the applicable rules of criminal procedure when preparing his verdict.
the applicant was born in 1970 and is currently detained in alytus correctional facility. the applicant was arrested on 3 june 2012 and transferred to kaunas remand prison on 4 june 2012. on 5 june 2012 he was examined by a doctor (see paragraph 15 below). during that examination, the applicant did not indicate that he needed any special devices. on 26 november 2012 the applicant consulted a doctor and indicated that he had sleep apnoea and he wished to acquire a continuous positive airway pressure (hereinafter “cpap”) device for its treatment. on 15 march 2013 a report was issued by a medical expert, indicating that the use of a cpap device was the most effective way to treat sleep apnoea and that the applicant’s condition was deteriorating because he had not been using a cpap device. it also indicated that there was a risk of complications if the sleep apnoea was not treated properly. a doctor recommended that he continue using a cpap device following his discharge from the hospital. on 19 september the applicant asked the prison administration to allow him to use a cpap device. on 3 october 2013 the administration of kaunas remand prison responded that under domestic law such a device was not among the items that could be given to detainees by their spouses or close relatives (see paragraph 14 below), but indicated that such an item could be purchased from the prison shop. the applicant then asked the kaunas remand prison administration to allow his relatives to give him the device. on 20 october 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint before the domestic courts, which he specified on 19 february 2015. the applicant stated that while he had been detained in kaunas remand prison, he had asked the prison administration to allow him to have a cpap device to treat his sleep apnoea, as recommended to him by a doctor in the prison hospital (see paragraph 8 above). the applicant stated that the prison administration had refused to allow him to have such a device, and he had been experiencing serious health issues. on 12 october 2015 the kaunas regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s complaint in part and awarded him eur 1,100 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. it stated that although the recommendation issued by the specialist contained a reference to possible complications, there was no information in the applicant’s case file to show that the inability to use a cpap device had had any negative consequences for his health. the applicant appealed against the decision of the kaunas regional administrative court. on 4 october 2016 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision in its entirety. the applicant submitted that he had been serving his sentence in premises for disabled persons but that he could be transferred to the standard dormitory-type premises. on 2 august 2017 the applicant’s request was allowed and he was transferred to alytus correctional facility on 21 august 2017 where he was able to continue using his cpap device.
the couple lived together in italy, where o.c.i. in 2008, and the third applicant, n.a.r., that he was a bad father who mistreated his children. he contended that he had not agreed that the second and third applicants would remain permanently in romania. he would pull them by the ears, slap their faces and hit their bottoms. she had tried to intervene but to no avail. eventually, the first applicant had decided to find refuge with the children in romania. she submitted as evidence several recordings of discussions between the applicants and p.l.r. during their common life in italy, showing episodes similar to those described above. the first applicant further explained that the children had become integrated in their new environment. they participated in after-school activities that they had always wanted to try but had in the past been denied by their father. she also explained that the children refused to speak with their father. they feared going back to italy and being again subject to abuse. it found that there was nothing to oppose the children’s return to italy. confirmed this in his statement before the court. it is also reasonable to suppose that if after the decision is rendered the children are exposed to a risk, [the italian authorities] would take such requisite measures, if the risk was brought to their attention and supported by evidence.” on 7 december 2017 the tulcea district court granted the request. a report of 29 may 2018 on the results of the counselling stated that the children refused contact with their father despite the first applicant’s efforts to encourage that relationship. therapy for the children was recommended. sought enforcement in romania of a parma district court order granting him sole parental authority.
the applicant, who is an uzbek national, was born in 1989. on an unspecified date in june 2012 he arrived in russia from uzbekistan. on 13 june 2013 the applicant was indicted for religious and politically motivated crimes in uzbekistan, namely for the participation in an extremist religious organisation islamic movement of turkistan. a search warrant in respect of him was issued and his pre-trial detention was ordered in absentia. on 24 november 2014 the moscow regional court convicted the applicant of participating in an extremist organisation, forging official documents, and attempting an illegal crossing of the state border. he was transferred to a penal colony to serve his sentence, and his release date was set for 30 june 2016. on 27 may 2016 the migration authorities dismissed his request, referring to the fact that a crime had been committed in russia. there is no information in the case file on whether the applicant lodged such a request or whether he appealed against the decision of 27 may 2016. the applicant also challenged the decision of 16 may 2016 in court. on 4 july 2016 the oktyabrskiy district court of arkhangelsk upheld the deportation decision. it concluded that the claims concerning the above risks were speculative. on 13 october 2016 the above judgment was upheld on appeal by the arkhangelsk regional court. the russian government were immediately informed about the measure. they were also informed that failure by a contracting state to comply with a measure indicated under rule 39 might entail a breach of article 34 of the convention. on the same day the applicant was taken to arkhangelsk airport, and he arrived at moscow domodedovo airport on the morning of 1 july 2016. on 22 july and 7 october 2016 the investigative committee informed the applicant’s representative that the request fell outside of its competence, and it was transferred to the prosecutor general’s office. on 26 july and 2 september 2016 the prosecutor general’s office informed the applicant’s representative that no extradition decision had been issued because the prosecution in respect of the charges in uzbekistan was time-barred; and that they had been informed about the interim measure indicated by the court only on 1 july 2016, after the deportation had taken place. on 27 october 2017 the district court dismissed the complaints once again. the applicant’s representative appealed on 7 november 2017. on 7 january 2017 he was convicted and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment by the qashqardarya region criminal court.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in gdańsk. the cbi is the unit of the police responsible for preventing and combatting organised crime. on 16 june 2011 at 7.40 p.m. the applicant was arrested at his friends’ flat in tczew on suspicion of kidnapping. an x-ray examination did not reveal any fractures. the applicant attached a copy of the medical examination report of 17 june 2011 and photographs documenting his injuries. on 27 july 2011 the bydgoszcz regional prosecutor instituted an investigation into the allegation of abuse of power by the police officers under article 231 of the criminal code. in the police car, an edw was continually used on the applicant’s back until he started suffocating. the prosecutor heard evidence from other individuals arrested with the applicant. the officer had ordered the applicant to lift his arms so he could be handcuffed. officer r. stated that each discharge had released direct current for a few seconds. with regard to the edw, the prosecutor stated:
“the electroshock weapon was used in accordance with procedure, and only in respect of [the applicant], in the circumstances described by the police officer arresting him and owing to his non-compliance with the orders.” the police officers had presented a consistent version of events. this had been confirmed by the forensic opinion. in this context, it found that those conflicting versions did not permit a clear determination of the relevant facts. accordingly, the actions of the police officers could not be considered to amount to a criminal offence. section 1(1) of the ordinance stipulated that the police may use coercive measures in accordance with the rules laid out in section 16(1) and (2) of the police act. section 8 of the ordinance regulates the use of electrical discharge weapons (paralizator elektryczny). in his annual report for the year 2017, the ombudsman also addressed the issue of the use of edws by the police. the guidance found by the cpt in some countries, to the effect that these weapons may be used when law enforcement officials are facing violence – or a threat of violence – of such a level that they would need to use force to protect themselves or others, is so broad as to leave the door open to a disproportionate response. this could consist of systematically informing, at regular intervals, an independent body responsible for supervising law enforcement agencies of all cases of resort to edw.
the applicant was born in 1985 and is currently serving a life sentence for murder in mountjoy prison, dublin. the final interview of the day took place between 10 p.m. and 11.42 p.m., a duration of one hour and forty-two minutes. the following day, 25 february 2009, the police continued to question the applicant. the next interview, the fourteenth, commenced at 5.32 p.m. in the first minutes, the police asked the applicant about text messages sent to ms g. around the time of the murder. with regard to the questioning by [the police officers], the court finds that the interviews were conducted in a careful, patient and structured way in which some of the results of the [police] investigation were gradually revealed to barry doyle. it agreed with the position taken by the trial judge that the fact that the applicant had consulted with his lawyer immediately before admitting the crime in the fifteenth interview represented a significant interruption in the process of police questioning. no doubt, had he asked for that facility, it would have been refused but that simply did not happen and it was not the understanding at the time that a lawyer was entitled to be present. there was no sign of oppression or unfairness. as a matter of constitutional law, the concept of basic fairness of process applied from the time of arrest, as the supreme court had recently affirmed in a judgment that took into account the relevant convention jurisprudence – dpp v. gormley and dpp v. white, [2014] iesc 17 (“gormley”). the second judgment was given by o’donnell j, who also confined his analysis to the first issue. the appellant’s conviction was based upon a confession of his guilt, supported by significant independent evidence. it was corroborated by evidence from ms [a.], who was present both when the order was given to the appellant to commit the murder, and the following day when the appellant was challenged as to whether or not he had shot the right man, and when he asserted, incorrectly, that he had. he then referred to several factors – including the evidence of remorse, the fact that the applicant limited his admissions to his own role, the fact that he did not retract his statement, and the gesture involving the beads – which constituted material on which the decision of the trial judge could reasonably be made. o’malley j agreed that the appeal should be dismissed. however, she took a different approach to macmenamin and charleton jj in relation to the implications of the right of access to legal advice. there is no evidence that his will was overborne to any extent, still less to the extent that a consultation could not assist him. 30460/13, 9 april 2015; simons v. belgium (dec.), thus on one reading it could be said that this right has already been clearly established. it seems to me to follow that the requirement that persons only be tried in due course of law, therefore, requires that the basic fairness of process identified as an essential ingredient of that concept by this court in state (healy) v. donoghue applies from the time of arrest of a suspect. gormley has not asserted that right to its full extent but has asserted only a right to have a lawyer to advise him, in custody, before the questioning starts.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in marmarashen village. on the same date the military unit doctor temporarily discharged gegham sergoyan from his duties until 16 april 2007. because of the surgery, he was allowed to wear slippers instead of army boots. was the duty officer in charge of the military unit. on 17 april 2007 gegham sergoyan was admitted to the cmh in yerevan. it was indicated in the medical record that, according to the transfer diagnosis, gegham sergoyan had suffered ballistic trauma to the cervical vertebrae. was questioned and fully admitted his guilt. he had shot gegham sergoyan with the gun attributed to him. on 10 may 2007 the minister of defence of armenia issued an order concerning the incident with the applicant’s son and the imposition of disciplinary penalties on persons responsible. on 9 june 2007 the investigation into gegham sergoyan’s death was taken over by the military prosecutor’s office of armenia. on 14 september 2007 the charges against h.g. seeking to recover amd 2,789,153 (approximately eur 6,200 at the relevant time) from the latter. several officers of the military unit stated that to their knowledge gegham sergoyan had never had any problems with lieutenant h.g. guilty as charged and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 1 october 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal. on 2 february 2010 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the regional court. article 104 § 2 (10) provides that murder committed out of hooliganism shall be punishable by imprisonment from eight to fifteen years or life imprisonment. article 1077 § 2 provides that damage caused to the life or the health of a person while performing, inter alia, military service is compensated in accordance with the rules prescribed by the civil code, if stricter liability is not provided for by statute or contract. according to article 1087, persons responsible for damage linked to the victim’s death shall reimburse the necessary funeral expenses to the person who has incurred such expenses. the civil code was supplemented by new articles 162.1 and 1087.2 which regulate the procedure for claiming compensation for non-pecuniary damage.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in belgrade. on 9 may 2005 the applicant lodged a claim seeking ownership of 265 shares of the company tri grozda a.d. on 14 september 2007 the belgrade court of first instance delivered a judgment in favour of the applicant. on 13 december 2011 the belgrade court of appeal reversed the judgment of 14 september 2007, and rejected the applicant’s claim. on 3 april 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time and requesting compensation in that regard. on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time. it held that the finding of a violation had constituted sufficient just satisfaction in the particular circumstances of the present case for the following reasons. first, the nominal value of the impugned shares was only slightly higher than 200 euros. the case was thus of minor importance for the applicant. secondly, it considered that the applicant had contributed to the length of the civil proceedings by failing to lodge a constitutional appeal earlier.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in alphen aan den rijn. on 19 august 2009 the applicant, who was then nineteen years of age, was arrested on suspicion of distribution of child pornography (three pictures of a 16-year-old girl) in april of that year. he was informed that he had the right to consult a lawyer. he told the officers, inter alia, that he had a brain disorder: he had cavernous hemangiomas (clusters of abnormal blood vessels) in his brain and spinal cord. when the applicant’s lawyer became available the police officers suspended the interview to give the applicant the opportunity to consult his lawyer by telephone. after that conversation, the applicant stated that his lawyer would come to see him at the end of the afternoon and that, on the advice of his lawyer, he would not answer any more questions. the applicant met with his lawyer later that day. the following day, 20 august 2009, the applicant was interviewed twice, including concerning distribution of child pornography, of which he was suspected. he was told that this was not possible and the interview was started. in the course of the interview the police officers questioning the applicant noted that he made a spasm-like movement with his arm. they asked him whether he was having an epileptic fit. the police officers then decided to interrupt the interview and call a doctor. a final interview was held with the applicant on 21 august 2009. however, it did not appear from the subsequent interviews that they had been conducted without the applicant having been able to consult his lawyer. the applicant lodged an appeal (hoger beroep). on 3 july 2013 the court of appeal (gerechtshof) of the hague quashed the decision of the regional court, convicted the applicant of the same offence and sentenced him to forty hours’ community service. as regards the claim that the applicant ought to have been assisted by a lawyer during the police interviews, the court of appeal held as follows:
“at the hearing on appeal counsel submitted that at the time of the police interviews the suspect had the mental age of a 15 or 16-year old, and also that he was suffering from a brain disorder which may have caused him to have epileptic seizures. after the suspect had, in the eyes of the interviewing officers, made ‘a kind of spastic’ movement, they had consulted a physician before resuming the interview. the court of appeal considers that this was the correct course of action. the court of appeal does not agree with counsel that the interviewing officers ought reasonably to have considered the suspect as vulnerable or underage.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in marusino, moscow region. on 28 march 2014 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 18 august 2014. on 18 september 2014 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 18 august 2014 on appeal. the applicant’s lawyers were present and made submissions to the court. on 20 august and 21 september 2015 the investigative committee of the republic of belarus discontinued the criminal proceedings against the applicant. from 21 february 2014 to 10 february 2015 the applicant was detained in remand prison sizo-6 in the moscow region. m. she was provided with an individual sleeping place, a mattress, a pillow, two bed sheets, a pillowcase, a towel and a blanket. she also received a bowl, a spoon and a mug. the inmates were allowed to take a shower once a week for at least fifteen minutes. the applicant was provided with access to a radio, books and board games. according to the applicant, the cells in which she was held were overcrowded and dirty. the walls were covered with mould and fungus. on numerous occasions it was completely turned off. if one of the inmates were sick or refused to take part in the daily exercise, the administration cancelled it for all the inmates held in the same cell. the journey lasted for two and a half to three hours. m of personal space per inmate is not being complied with ... the average personal space afforded to detainees is 2.6 sq. according to the applicant, between february and march 2014 the town prosecutor authorised the applicant’s mother to visit her at the remand prison on three occasions. on 21 january 2015 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed a complaint by the applicant against the prosecutor’s decision of 10 october 2014, without considering the merits. on 6 may 2015 the district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 10 october 2014. on 17 april 2017 the federal migration service issued a residency permit.
details concerning the applicants can be found in the appendix. from 2 september 2004 until 2 january 2005 secret surveillance activities were carried out with respect to the third applicant in the context of ongoing criminal proceedings. the proceedings were later terminated without the applicant being prosecuted. the code of criminal procedure allows for evidence to be gathered by means of secret surveillance. their representatives (except the first applicant’s counsel) submitted requests to the office of the prosecutor general, asking it to remove the material which the prosecution did not intend to rely on from the criminal file, and to specify which evidence was intended to prove which facts. the office of the prosecutor general dismissed those requests, explaining that the applicants had been presented with all the material gathered during the pre-trial proceedings so that they could assess which material was relevant from the perspective of defence rights. altogether, the pre-trial proceedings lasted three and a half years and ended on 31 march 2009 when the statement of charges against the applicants was submitted to the trial court. in may 2009 dates for hearings in november and december 2009 and january, february, april, may and june 2010 were scheduled. further dates were scheduled in february 2010 (for dates in september and october 2010), in june 2010 (for dates in december 2010 and february and april 2011), in april 2011 (for dates in october, november and december 2011), in november 2011 (for dates in december 2011 and january, february, april and may 2012), in december 2011 (for dates in january and february 2012), and in february 2012 (for dates in march 2012). this allowed persons who were not concerned by such evidence not to attend the particular hearing. an application was made to separate the first applicant’s case from the case against two other accused (including e.t.), they submitted that the cases were closely linked, and argued that separating the cases would hinder defence rights and force them to attend other parallel proceedings at the same time. between 17 and 19 july 2013 all of the applicants lodged appeals on points of law with the supreme court. on 17 december 2013 the supreme court granted the applicants leave to appeal. in the meantime, the supreme court had asked for the surveillance files to be forwarded to it. it considered the evidence gathered by means of secret surveillance to be admissible. when assessing whether the proceedings had been excessively long, the supreme court firstly observed that the case had been rather complex as regards the issues of law, and very complex from an evidentiary perspective. this had made the collection of evidence concerning the offences difficult and the analysis of the (circumstancial) evidence time-consuming. as the third applicant had raised the question of the compatibility of the regulation of secret surveillance with the constitution and the convention, the supreme court – also acting as a constitutional review court – analysed the regulation of the ccrp (the limitations as regards offences in respect of which secret surveillance could be conducted, the principle of foreseeability, and the permitted duration of surveillance). judge kergandberg addressed the requirement to provide reasons for decisions authorising secret surveillance.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived either in the chechen republic or the republic of ingushetia, a region neighbouring chechnya. on the morning of 3 february 2002, when the applicant came to visit her husband in the vovd as usual, she was informed that mr ibragim idrisov had been released the day before, on 2 february 2002. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 31 december 2003 the nazran town prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. on 29 october 2005 a police officer from zavodskoy district police station interviewed ms s., the sister of mr rizvan bashayev. on 31 december 2005 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. the applicants are close relatives of mr khizir galtakov (also spelled as goltakov), who was born in 1969. the whereabouts of mr khizir galtakov remain unknown. immediately after the abduction, the first applicant went to the argun military commander’s office, where one of the officers confirmed that his son had been detained by military servicemen. on 19 february 2010 the second applicant requested that the investigation be resumed and that she be informed of any progress in the proceedings. on 21 may 2010 the second applicant requested the investigators to grant her full access to the criminal case file. on 23 september 2010 the first applicant lodged a complaint with the shali town court challenging the investigators’ decision to suspend the investigation and their failure to take basic steps. on 28 april 2004 the first applicant lodged a complaint with the argun town prosecutor, asking that the investigation be resumed. on 5 october 2011 it was resumed; the first applicant was informed thereof. in some of their replies to requests for information lodged by the applicants regarding mr said-emin ocherkhadzhiyev, the investigators indicated that he had disappeared during a counter-terrorist operation in the chechen republic. on 29 september 2003 the investigation was suspended for failure to establish the identity of the perpetrators. on 20 july 2010 the first applicant was granted victim status and questioned. on 22 july 2010 the investigators questioned the third applicant. on 24 february 2012 the investigation was suspended. on 27 january 2012 her complaint was rejected, as the proceedings had already been resumed.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in dmitrovgrad. between 2012 and 2014 the applicant lodged numerous complaints with the local police department concerning the allegedly unauthorised use of the plot of land near the block of flats where her family resided. she also alleged that there had been a number of assassination attempts planned against her. she constantly talks about conspiracies against her. complaints lodged by residents and entrepreneurs about her aggressive behaviour have grown in number. [ the applicant] might cause harm to others.” on 28 and 29 january 2014 a psychiatrist, sav., on 30 january 2014 a psychiatrist visited the applicant at her place of residence. on 31 january 2014 the psychiatrist informed the police that the applicant did not have any psychiatric disorders. on 12 march 2014, in response to the applicant’s complaint, the dimitrovgrad town court found the psychiatrist’s actions unlawful. on 29 april 2014 the town court dismissed the applicant’s complaint. the court found that the actions of the police had had a basis in law. the court interpreted the letter of 15 january 2014 issued by the police department as a request for information from the psychiatrist as to whether the applicant suffered from any mental illness. it further reasoned that the police had not asked the psychiatric service to examine the applicant. in 2012 the police had received numerous complaints from the applicant, who had alleged that she had been persecuted by unknown persons, and complaints from owners and employees of concession stands alleging that the applicant had destroyed their property and had disrupted their activities by making scenes. the police had conducted an inquiry, which did not confirm the applicant’s allegations. accordingly, the police had decided to obtain information about the applicant’s mental condition. lastly, the court reasoned that the fact that, in response to the police’s request for information, the psychiatric service had examined the applicant unlawfully had no bearing on the lawfulness of the police’s actions. on 22 july 2014 the ulyanovsk regional court upheld the judgment of 29 april 2014 on appeal. on 17 december 2014 the regional court refused to grant the applicant leave to lodge a cassation appeal.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived in the chechen republic and the republic of ingushetia, a region neighbouring chechnya. on 10 june 2001 the grozny district prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 17 may 2007 the grozny district prosecutor’s office informed the first applicant and the ngo memorial that the investigation had been suspended and that the operational search activities were in progress in order to establish the whereabouts of mr suliman isayev and mr ramzan isayev. on 24 march and 18 april 2008 the investigators questioned ms g., who denied that she had complained to the law-enforcement authorities about the alleged involvement of the isayev brothers into the abduction of people. the first applicant was informed thereof. they were of slavic appearance and spoke unaccented russian. on 4 february 2013 the investigators questioned ms n.s. who confirmed the circumstances of the abduction of the four men as described above. on 5 february 2013 the investigation was suspended. on 19 june 2008 the court dismissed her complaint having found that the investigators had already resumed the proceedings. after the abduction the applicants complained to the argun military commander’s office, where they were informed that mr sayd-khuseyn tembulatov had been detained by “a special group from khankala” which had not coordinated its operation with the local commander. drove two uaz-469 vehicles from staryye atagi to grozny to buy fuel. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed of this decision. the second applicant is the mother of mr andarbek abubakarov, who was born in 1975. on 12 november 2013 the investigation was resumed, then suspended on 12 december 2013, resumed again on 9 october 2014 and suspended on 29 december 2014. on 10 may 2003 the sixth applicant was granted victim status and questioned. on 30 may 2003 the forensic examination established that the note received by the applicants (see paragraph 213 above) could have been partially written by mr said-magomed abzayev. on 13 november 2003 the sixth applicant asked the investigators to resume the proceedings. on 28 november 2002 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.
the applicant company is a limited liability company incorporated under moldovan law. on 24 december 2012 and 21 june 2013 respectively the applicant company initiated two sets of civil proceedings challenging two decisions issued by the state tax inspectorate of străşeni (inspectoratul fiscal de stat străşeni – “the inspectorate”) under which it had been fined for non‑compliance with the vat reporting regulations. on 5 september 2013 these two sets of proceedings were joined. on 26 december 2013 the străşeni district court upheld the applicant company’s claims and overturned the impugned decisions. the representative of the inspectorate was not present when the judgment was delivered, despite having been duly informed of the date and the time of the hearing. on 5 february 2014 the inspectorate lodged an appeal against the judgment of the străşeni district court. no request for an extension of the legal time-limit for lodging an appeal was made. the applicant company objected to the appeal and argued that it had been lodged outside the thirty‑day time-limit and that the inspectorate had not requested an extension of the legal time-limit for lodging it. in a decision of 3 september 2014 the chişinău court of appeal calculated the applicable time-limit and found that it had expired on 27 january 2014 and, accordingly, that the inspectorate had been late in lodging its appeal. it therefore decided to strike the appeal out of its list of cases as time-barred. the inspectorate lodged an appeal on points of law against that decision. it argued that the chişinău court of appeal could not strike out the appeal after having commenced its examination of the merits of the case. on 8 october 2014 the supreme court of justice quashed the chişinău court of appeal’s strike-out decision of 3 september 2014. without contesting the court of appeal’s calculation of the time-limit for lodging the appeal, the supreme court of justice accepted the argument put forward by the inspectorate and found that the court of appeal had breached the rules of procedure by adopting a strike-out decision after having started an examination of the merits of the case. ultimately, the case was referred back to the chişinău court of appeal for re-examination. on 28 january 2015, after rehearing the case, the chişinău court of appeal upheld the inspectorate’s appeal, quashed the judgment of the străşeni district court of 26 december 2013 and rendered a new judgment whereby the applicant company’s action was rejected as ill-founded. on 10 june 2015 the supreme court of justice declared an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant company inadmissible.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tolyatti. the post-mortem examination (in a report of 1 june 2007) established that z. had died as a result of mechanical asphyxia caused by deliberate self‑harm by means of hanging. had committed suicide by hanging herself. had regularly subjected z. to beatings and humiliation. on 19 september 2011 criminal proceedings were instituted against ch. on 20 september 2011, however, the deputy prosecutor of the nenetskiy autonomous region set aside the above decision. following another round of pre-investigation inquiries, on 24 october 2011 the institution of a criminal investigation into the death of z. was again refused under article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, in view of a lack of the constituent elements of a crime under article 110 of the criminal code in ch. amounting to inhuman or degrading treatment. z. had been in a state of severe alcohol intoxication and could not have fully understood her actions when taking the decision to take her own life. the bruises and abrasions on z.’s face and body could have originated during a heated altercation with ch. in 2005 and 2007) had indeed taken place, they would have been one-off unrelated events occurring under unspecified circumstances and could not have been connected to z.’s decision to take her own life. furthermore, z. had not been fully dependent on ch. at any time, divorced him, taken the children and changed her place of residence. she could also have sought medical assistance, and/or complained about ch. at the same time she had told her relatives that she loved her husband and did not want to divorce him. the case file further contained information indicating that ch. following a complaint by the applicant, on 10 september 2013 the town court found the decision of 24 october 2011 lawful and justified. under article 117 § 1 of the criminal code. on 7 july 2010 the applicant was granted victim status in the proceedings. on 5 june 2009 the naryan-mar town court dismissed the applicant’s claim.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in moscow. from 1995 until his retirement on 21 august 2006 he was a prosecutor of the north-western district of moscow. on 29 may 2007 the moscow city public prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the recent activities of a group of former and acting law-enforcement officers and officials. on 24 april 2008 the applicant was arrested and remanded in custody pending investigation and trial (see valeriy samoylov v. russia, no. on 23 july 2009 the prosecutor completed the investigation in respect of fifteen suspects, including the applicant, and transferred the case to the moscow city court. the case file contains information classified as state secrets and the disclosure of this information might have a serious adverse effect on the interests of society and the state.” on 24 may 2010 the jury delivered a guilty verdict in the applicant’s case. the applicant appealed, complaining in particular about the lack of a public hearing. on 16 november 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation held an appeal hearing. the court heard the prosecutor, the civil party, the defendants, including the applicant, and their counsel. the court upheld, in substance, and reduced the applicant’s sentence to eight years’ imprisonment. on an unspecified date the applicant and his wife brought a civil action for damages against the television channel, arguing, inter alia, that the respondent company had failed to obtain their consent for disclosure of their personal data, including the tax information and the footage of their house and its interior. on 18 may 2010 the ostankinskiy district court dismissed the applicant’s claims in full. ... according to the investment agreement ... the value of the house was estimated at ... usd 60,000 ..., which did not include the cost of the interior, including the installation of a winding staircase and a jacuzzi ... [one of the plaintiffs’ witnesses] submitted that [the applicant] had been offered a reduced price for the house because of his friendship with the management of the construction company ... [the court] finds it incompatible with the standing of the prosecutor. [ this is justified by the public interest. the question raised in the programme about the public servant’s income and the value of his property is a matter of public interest. the journalist obtained those materials lawfully, with the investigator’s approval. the veracity of his assessment cannot be subject to verification given that such verification should be carried out [in the course of the criminal investigation]. ...
... the court considers that [the journalist] produced evidence confirming his statements about the [applicant’s] involvement in illegal activities and dismisses the plaintiffs’ claims.” on 20 december 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 18 may 2010 on appeal.
the details of the applicants are available in the annex. the applicants are owners of a property situated at 8, flat 1, old prison street, senglea, (hereinafter “the property”) which they inherited from their ancestors. on 15 april 1989 the commissioner of land took over (occupied) the property. on 22 march 1999, the commissioner of land submitted a notice to treat to the land arbitration board (lab), by means of which the sum of mtl 15.62 (approximately eur 36.39) per year was offered to the owners (the zammit family) as a yearly recognition rent. on 22 may 2000 the commissioner of land instituted proceedings before the lab requesting them to order the transfer of the property and set the relevant compensation. following the constitutional redress proceedings (described below) the commissioner of land’s appeal was withdrawn. the report noted that the property had been demolished and was replaced by new residential apartments. it rejected the remainder of the claims, and left the liquidation of damage to be established in the final judgment. however, the recognition rent established in line with lab policies, which was not subject to any future increases, was too low and thus disproportionate. the defendants declared that they did not object to this valuation. costs were to be shared equally between the parties. by a judgment of 18 february 2016 the constitutional court varied the first‑instance judgment by limiting the basis of the violation, and reducing the compensation to eur 1,500. however, even if this were not so, and that it had been demolished when it was under title of possession and use, the demolition would still have been unlawful, since according to law it was not possible to demolish a property under a title of possession and use the rights attached to which were limited. that illegality persisted until the commissioner of land acquired the property under title of public tenure; however, despite the passage of three years since the demolition the applicants did not challenge that measure. moreover, the applicants were entitled to recognition rent for the property and, more importantly, for the land at issue. indeed the fact that the taking consisted of land (as the property above it had been demolished) made it feasible to apply the taking under public tenure procedure. thus, given the small size of the property, the area in which it was in, the fact that it had been demolished at the expense of the government and the fact that the recognition rent was adequate, the constitutional court considered that eur 1,500 was an adequate amount of compensation to be shared by the applicants jointly. it further considered that it needed not examine the convention compatibility of the relevant law in abstracto, it having already determined that its application in the present case constituted a breach. the property has been rebuilt as apartments for social housing. section 13 regarding compensation read, in so far as relevant, as follows:
“(1) the amount of compensation to be paid for any land required by a competent authority may be determined at any time by agreement between the competent authority and the owner, saving the provisions contained in subarticle (2).
mr mammadov is an azerbaijani national who has been involved in various political organisations and local and international non-governmental organisations for a number of years. in november 2014 mr mammadov lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court. that, however, does not affect the court’s findings in connection with the present complaint, in which it is called upon to examine whether the deprivation of the applicant’s liberty during the pre‑trial period was justified on the basis of information or facts available at the relevant time. at that meeting the committee of ministers classified the case in the “enhanced procedure” on the basis that it required “urgent individual measures” and disclosed a “complex problem” (see paragraph 101 below). expressed concern about the repetitive nature of the breach of the principle of presumption of innocence by the prosecutor general’s office and members of the government, despite several judgments of the court which, since 2010, have indicated the precise requirements of the convention in this regard, and insisted on the necessity of rapid and decisive action in order to prevent similar violations in the future;
...” 46. from june 2016 it decided to examine mr mammadov’s situation at its ordinary, monthly, meetings whilst also continuing to examine it at every human rights meeting of the committee.[2]
(b)  information submitted to the committee of ministers 49. noted the indication given during the meeting by the azerbaijani authorities that the just satisfaction has been paid to ilgar mammadov in december 2015 ...; invited them to confirm this information in writing;
...” 62. in the second mammadov judgment, cited above, the court found a violation of article 6 § 1 in connection with his trial and conviction; events also examined by the committee of ministers in the execution proceedings for the first mammadov judgment (see paragraphs 45 to 48 above). in that judgment, delivered on 16 november 2017, after the committee of ministers had put azerbaijan on formal notice in relation to the first mammadov judgment (see paragraph 66 above), the court first considered in detail the scope of its examination, stating:
“202. the circumstances on which this previous finding of the court was based remain unchanged in the present case. the united nations general assembly has given consideration to those articles on a number of occasions since 2001. in carrying out their functions it may be necessary for international organisations to take a position on whether a state has breached an international obligation. restitution
a state responsible for an internationally wrongful act is under an obligation to make restitution, that is, to re-establish the situation which existed before the wrongful act was committed, provided and to the extent that restitution:
(a)  is not materially impossible;
(b)  does not involve a burden out of all proportion to the benefit deriving from restitution instead of compensation. when, in a judgment transmitted to the committee of ministers in accordance with article 46, paragraph 2, of the convention, the court has decided that there has been a violation of the convention or its protocols and/or has awarded just satisfaction to the injured party under article 41 of the convention, the committee shall invite the high contracting party concerned to inform it of the measures which the high contracting party has taken or intends to take in consequence of the judgment, having regard to its obligation to abide by it under article 46, paragraph 1, of the convention. if there has been no response within this time limit, the communication shall be transmitted to the committee of ministers but shall not be made public. they shall not be initiated unless formal notice of the committee’s intention to bring such proceedings has been given to the high contracting party concerned. the types of cases that may be placed in the enhanced procedure are judgments requiring urgent individual measures; pilot judgments; judgments raising structural and/or complex problems as identified by the court or by the committee of ministers; and interstate cases. (b)  cases pending supervision before the committee of ministers where the court found a violation of article 18 in conjunction with article 5
(i)  individual measures 106. in the third case, gusinsky, the secretariat’s analysis prepared at the 1243rd meeting (8-9 december 2015) advised the committee in relation to the violation of article 18 in conjunction with article 5 that:
“... it appears that this violation was closely linked to the vagueness of the law at the time and the absence of effective judicial review of detention of suspects. the measures that follow are designed to improve and accelerate the execution process.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in bor. the proceedings began on 30 march 1992 when the applicant brought a lawsuit against third persons concerning the execution of a contract. on 19 june 1997 the first-instance court accepted the applicant’s claim. on 30 october 1997 the appeal court quashed the decision on legal costs, remitted that issue to the first-instance court for a retrial and upheld the remainder of the first-instance judgment. the first-instance court subsequently rendered three decisions on the costs of the proceedings on 23 july 1998, 19 february 1999 and 3 march 2000. all of these decisions were quashed on appeal. on 5 february 2013 the first-instance court rendered a fourth decision on the issue of legal costs awarding the applicant approximately 2,000 euros (eur). according to the information on the file, the proceedings are currently pending before the second-instance court. on 13 march 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded him eur 300 for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in this regard. furthermore, the constitutional court ordered the applicant’s proceedings to be expedited.
she lives in vilnius and has three children. the first time she gave birth was in 2009 in a public hospital in vilnius. see paragraphs 31‑35 below), on 9 may 2012 the first applicant asked two public hospitals – one in vilnius and one in kaunas – to provide her with medical assistance during the home birth that she was planning. over the previous twenty years lithuania had achieved good results in significantly reducing the mortality rate of pregnant women, women giving birth and babies. accordingly, the ministry had no plans to initiate changes to secondary legislation that would regulate the provision of midwifery services at home. the second applicant submitted that after she had fallen pregnant for a fourth time, and “not being able to safely give birth at home” owing to criminal charges having been brought in respect of the above-mentioned doula, j.i.š. ( all the hospitals refused, on the grounds that in lithuania there was no legal basis on which to provide medical assistance during a home birth. on 21 september 2012 the third applicant then asked the ministry of health to either guarantee medical assistance at her home during the birth of her third child or to amend the relevant secondary legislation so that the healthcare professionals were permitted to provide such assistance. given that in her request the third applicant insisted on relying on the court’s judgment in ternovszky (cited above), the ministry of health consulted the ministry of justice on the matter. nonetheless, the court had acknowledged that, as concerned the provision of healthcare services, the states had a wide margin of appreciation, and regulation had to ensure a proper balance between societal interests and the right at stake. there was no information in the file to the effect that the third applicant had ever approached any of the maternity wards or that she had faced obstacles in choosing how to make use of that right to privacy (for example, by requesting certain services, such as a private room) and then instituted court proceedings. in 2012 a non-governmental organisation for promoting childbirth at home, “gimimas.lt”, was established. the scope of her actions at those home births had varied between merely examining newborn babies to performing certain childbirth-related actions. by a judgment of 23 december 2016, the vilnius city district court acquitted j.i.š., holding that she had revived the old profession of doula, which although not regulated in lithuania, was also not forbidden by law. under article 202 § 2 of the criminal code. had neither a medical education nor a licence to provide such services. had acted in breach of the existing legal regulations, under which the only specialists who could assist with births were obstetrician‑gynaecologists and midwives and birth with such assistance could take place (gimdymai priimami) only in a maternity ward. she was sentenced to six months of deprivation of liberty, suspended for one year. ’s activity, although it had not been prohibited (jos vykdyta veikla nėra uždrausta), had been unlawful (neteisėta).
a list of applicants is set out in the appendix. and a first floor of a little more than 100 sq.m., with roof terraces, located in the primary town centre. the applicants became owners either through inheritance or donation from their parents on various dates between 1991 and 2011. on 14 august 1978 the applicants’ ascendants entered into a new lease agreement with the band club, whereby they willingly rented property a and part of the garden of property b (hereinafter, jointly referred to as “the rented property”) to the band club for 120 maltese liras annually ((mtl) – approximately eur 279.52), to be paid six months in advance. these amounts did not correspond to those agreed upon within the rent agreement of 14 august 1978. on 28 october 1980 and again on 10 january 1983 l.g. complained with the band club about its use of the rented property as a discotheque and as a restaurant. in 2004 and 2005 the band club had requested that it be able to rent a further part of the garden of property b and for it to purchase the part of the property that was being utilized as the seat of the club. on 15 july 2015 the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, inter alia, found that the owners had suffered a violation of their rights as protected under article 1 of protocol no. the court noted that, in 1923, when the owners had entered into the first rental agreement with the band club, the laws enacting the special dispositions concerning renting a property as a club had not yet come into force. the court considered that the rental agreement of 14 august 1978 was an extension of the first rental agreement - the first agreement having been entered into before the special dispositions had come into force. the court accepted that clubs play a social role in maltese society, even to date. however, some form of compensation was due. on 26 june 2015 the constitutional court, upheld the attorney general’s appeal and concluded that the owners had not suffered a violation of their rights as protected by article 1 of protocol no. the costs of proceedings at both instances were to be paid by the owners. unlike the first-instance court, the constitutional court concluded that the agreement of 14 august 1978 amounted to novation (see relevant domestic law). it was a new rent agreement concerning a larger property and a higher annual rent payable. the intentions of the parties in the original agreement were set aside, and were now regulated by means of a new agreement. therefore the owners had not suffered a violation of their property rights.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived in the neighbouring regions of the chechen republic and the republic of ingushetia. the whereabouts of mr shamil amirkhadzhiyev have remained unknown ever since. the responses contained statements that no information about mr amirkhadzhiyev was available. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 1 july 2011 the applicants challenged the investigators’ decision to suspend the investigation of 16 june 2011 and their failure to take basic steps before the grozny district court. the first applicant is his wife and other applicants are his children. after checking them, the service personnel handcuffed mr chapsurkayev. the first applicant was informed thereof. on 3 july 2003 the first applicant complained of the abduction to the military prosecutor of shali and requested assistance in the search for him. on 30 november 2006 the first applicant again complained to the shali district prosecutor in respect of the abduction. without any explanation, they pulled mr alvi lorsnukayev’s shirt over his head, took him barefoot outside and forced him into a uaz minivan (таблетка) with tinted windows. 48116 under article 126 of the criminal code (abduction). she confirmed the circumstances of the abduction as described above. it is unclear whether any reply was given to this request. on 30 august 2012 the investigation was resumed. the first applicant is the mother of mr arbi isiyev, who was born in 1985. on 23 october 2004 the argun town prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. it was resumed on 18 february 2008 and suspended again on 18 march 2008. on 22 april 2010 and then again on 22 july 2011 the first applicant requested that the investigators grant her access to the investigation file. on 31 october 2012 the supreme court of chechnya upheld that decision on appeal.
details of the applicants can be found in the appendix. on 14 september 2005 mr tamer, the applicants’ lawyer at the material time, sent a letter to the applicants asking them to fill out and sign the forms of authority that were enclosed with the letter, to authorise him to lodge an application on their behalf with the court concerning the disciplinary board’s decision to intercept the letters sent by the association (see paragraph 7 above). he explained that he was sending his letter by registered mail because he had not received a reply to his previous letter with the same content. he also mentioned that the forms of authority were not required by the court immediately on bringing an application and that they could be submitted at a later stage. the administration of the edirne f-type prison believed the contents of the letter of 14 september 2005 to be suspect and therefore lodged a request with the public prosecutor on 21 september 2005 for a decision to refer the matter to an enforcement court to determine whether the material sent to the applicants included objectionable content. on 25 october 2005 the edirne enforcement court allowed an application by the prosecutor and examined the contents of the letter. it decided that, under section 5 of law no. the decision was served on the applicants on 17 november 2005. in the meantime, on 23 november 2005 mr tamer wrote to the committee of ministers of the council of europe informing it that the edirne f-type prison administration’s refusal to give the applicants the letter in question had impaired his ability to lodge an application with the court and constituted a violation of the european agreement relating to persons participating in proceedings of the european court of human rights. on 22 february 2006 the registry of the court sent a letter to mr tamer acknowledging receipt of his letter dated 23 november 2005, addressed to the committee of ministers of the council of europe, as indicating the applicants’ intention to lodge an application with the court and invited him to submit a duly completed application form. on 19 october 2006 the applicants’ representative sent an application form to the court. their application was registered as application no. 4536/06 confirming, inter alia, receipt of their application and requesting the representative to provide forms of authority in connection with that application. on 1 june 2007 the edirne assize court dismissed an objection lodged by the second and fourth applicants and upheld the edirne enforcement court’s decision. 5275 on the enforcement of sentences and preventive measures as in force at the material time provided as follows:
section 59 – right to consultation with a lawyer or a notary
“...
(2)  consultation with a lawyer or a notary may be carried out in working hours except for weekends and public holidays, in a place reserved for that purpose within the sight but not hearing of officials. ...
(4)  [as amended by section 5 of law no. 5351] a lawyer’s documents and files related to defence and his or her records of the meetings with his or her client shall not be subject to examination. (3)  if letters, faxes and telegrams to prisoners are a threat to order and security in the prison, single out serving officials as targets, permit communication with terrorist or criminal organisations, contain false or misleading information likely to cause panic in individuals or institutions, or contain threats or insults, they shall not be forwarded to the addressee. 9460/03, §§ 13-14, 3 july 2007) and mehmet nuri özen and others v. turkey (nos. 15672/08 and 10 others, §§ 30-34, 11 january 2011).
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic or ingushetia. the perpetrators have not been established by the investigating bodies. the abduction took place in the presence of several witnesses. on 1 november 2004 the prosecutor opened criminal case no. on 29 december 2004 the applicant was granted victim status in the criminal proceedings. there is no information about any further developments in the proceedings. there is no information about any further developments in the case. the second, third and fourth applicants are his children. at about 7.30 a.m. on 20 july 2003 several armed servicemen in camouflage uniforms, some of whom were in balaclavas, arrived in vaz‑21099 and uaz vehicles at the tenth applicant’s house in avtury, chechnya, searched the premises and took mr sayd-ali sharshuyev away. on an unspecified date (apparently in august 2003) one of the investigators spoke with the head of the chechen president’s security service, mr s. he stated that on 20 july 2003 the security service had conducted a special operation in avtury. on 22 october 2004 the investigation was suspended. that the two men had been abducted by state agents, the investigators contacted various authorities, including the shali district fsb and remand prisons, to check whether mr alikhan golbatsov had been arrested and taken into custody. on 2 october 2007 the applicant contacted the chechen ombudsman, seeking his assistance in the search for her son. on 27 august 2011 and 26 june 2012 the applicant contacted the investigators, requesting information about new developments in the case. therefore he cannot be treated as one of the applicants. subsequently the investigation was resumed on 25 april 2006 and 1 march 2010, and then suspended on 25 may 2006 and 2 march 2010 respectively. from the documents presented by the applicants it appears that on 8 july 2010 the ngo srji/astreya, on behalf of mr lema khamzatov’s father, requested an update about the progress of the case and access to the documents in the case file. on 29 july 2013 the court rejected the complaint, finding that the investigators had already resumed the investigation. he denied that mr magomed mezhiyev had been arrested. on 22 april 2013 the court dismissed her claim as unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in zgornja korena. the applicant was given a suspended prison sentence. the judgment became final on 17 june 2011. on 9 april 2004 the applicant was granted a licence to work as a liquidator in insolvency proceedings under the compulsory composition, bankruptcy and liquidation act (hereinafter “the bankruptcy act”) then in force. his name was entered in the register of liquidators maintained by the ministry of justice. it stated that pursuant to that provision, the applicant, having been convicted of an offence prosecuted ex officio (hereinafter “publicly prosecutable”) committed with intent, had to be divested of his licence. three days following the decision the applicant’s name was removed from the registry of liquidators. on 25 july 2011 the applicant lodged an administrative action against the decision revoking his licence. he argued that over the years in this profession, he had gained extensive experience and had built up his reputation. on 7 november 2012 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that the revocation of his licence had been entirely lawful. as regards the applicant’s assertion that the measure should not have been applied retroactively, it found that the time when the offence had been committed was not to be considered relevant since the measure in question pertained to the final conviction, thereby respecting the presumption of innocence. he further alleged that the administrative court had failed to address that key argument and to provide a reasoned response to his complaints. moreover, the courts had disregarded the fact that only a suspended prison sentence had been imposed on him and that the legal distinction to include all criminal offences committed with intent was arbitrary and not relevant to the aim of maintaining public confidence in the profession at issue. on 6 november 2013 the constitutional court decided not to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint, relying on the second paragraph of section 55(b) of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 36 below). from november 2014 to november 2015, he was employed through a programme for older workers. on 27 june 2013 the applicant lodged an administrative action against the above decision. he argued that the sanction of permanent revocation was absolutely disproportionate and that neither judges nor lawyers were subject to such strict conditions as both were able to reapply for office after they had been dismissed. the applicant further submitted that he had lost his job virtually overnight and that the companies which had provided support services to him, such as accounting, had also been seriously affected by the measure. it found that the refusal to grant a licence was based on a valid law, which prohibited granting of a licence to an applicant whose previous licence had been revoked. subsequently, the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in paola. he also stated that he accepted to help the applicant move a photocopier (which had been found overturned on the floor) and that he had seen the applicant put the server of a computer network system under the sofa of a room on the second floor, and the video recorder and the safe-deposit box in other places. subsequently, on 1 february 2002 at 6.00 pm, the police questioned the applicant in the absence of a lawyer. in particular he noted that he had no reason to make up such a plan and that it would have been foolish of him to throw out (narmih) his business. a series of questions ensued concerning the photocopier. on 2 february 2002 at 10.28 a.m. the applicant made another statement to the police, after being cautioned and in the absence of a lawyer. he could not remember how many video recorders of the brand gyyr he possessed noting that the new ones used to be in the stores and others could be in the repair room or in another room. had been asked whether the applicant ever told him why he had wanted to be tied, a.f. he confirmed that he did not know where the things where and, in his view, this had been a frame up against him or against his company, by someone close to him or someone who had worked for him, or a competitor. it was true that the applicant had repeatedly and categorically denied any wrongdoing; however, he was not reliable in the light of the evasive and hesitant way in which he replied to police questions concerning his business, profitability, rents, and profits of the previous year. in the light of all the evidence it considered that the first court had wrongly acquitted the applicant. he had never alleged that the statement was taken abusively. 36391/02, echr 2008), of 27 november 2008, and realised that it could give him another means of defence. prior to this legal notice maltese law did not provide for legal assistance during the pre‑trial investigation and specifically during questioning, whether by the police or by a magistrate in his investigative role. given that the absence of a lawyer at the investigation stage could irretrievably prejudice the accused’s right, the court considered that where there existed sufficient reasons indicating a violation, it should not wait for the end of the criminal proceedings in order to examine the merits of the case. on appeal, by a judgment of 8 october 2012 the constitutional court reversed the first-instance judgment. mr muscat had been informed of his right to remain silent. the republic of malta vs carmel camilleri constitutional court judgment of 22 february 2013 57. thus, before he was voluntarily called in for questioning the following days he had all the time necessary to seek the assistance of a lawyer before he appeared voluntarily on three subsequent days where he gave three statements. (ii)  cases brought before the constitutional jurisdictions after the criminal proceedings had come to an end
simon xuereb vs the attorney general, constitutional court judgment of 28 june 2012 61.
the applicant sigurður einarsson was born in 1960 and lives in reykjavík. the applicant ólafur ólafsson was born in 1957 and lives in pully, switzerland. the loan transactions and the payment for the shares had all been made on 29 september 2008. on 9 december 2008 the fme was informed of possible suspicious transactions in kaupþing’s operations shortly before the bank collapsed. the case was submitted to the reykjavík district court on 7 march 2012 and the main hearing took place from 4 to 14 november 2013. on 26 january 2016 the petitions were rejected. magnús guðmundsson did not lodge a petition for reopening. subsequently, the special prosecutor granted access to the data in question upon request. the special prosecutor replied on 22 january 2013, referring to the obligation of the police to consider equally evidence against and in favour of the accused. it then observed in relation to the request dismissed by the district court on 29 may 2012 that it could not be overlooked that the collection of data seized by the police was enormous in scope and that among the data were e-mail communications that by their nature had to concern the financial affairs of a great many customers of kaupþing and which had to be kept confidential, as well as personal messages concerning the private lives of employees. in their appeals to the supreme court against their convictions, the applicants submitted that insufficient attempts had been made to have al thani and sultan testify in court. the applicants’ phones were tapped in the period from 9 to 27 march 2010. the special prosecutor informed the applicants by letter of 28 december 2011 that the tapping had taken place and informed them that the records from the phone tapping would be deleted in accordance with section 85 § 1 of the of criminal procedures act. the calls had been recorded with help from the computer forensics division of the rejkjavík metropolitan police; they had been scanned by the investigators, who had at the same time made brief notes about what they regarded as relevant to the investigation of the case; the investigators had been instructed to stop listening to phone calls when it became clear that a defendant was speaking to his defence lawyer and not to record what had been revealed in the conversation up until that point. however, an employee responsible for documenting the phone calls had made the mistake of not mentioning the phone calls in question when writing a memorandum, and as a result they had been omitted from a list of phone calls that should be deleted. ’s wife, mrs s., had been a member of the board of the fme until january 2009 and invited them to submit their observations on the matter. upon a request from one of the defence lawyers, further information on the exact day mrs s. had left the fme board was sent to the parties. moreover, he had been in contact with two of them while head of the legal department. denial of access may be referred to a judge. if the witness is located far from the court or if attending the court would otherwise cause him significant inconvenience, the judge may decide that testimony is to be given during the court session by telephone ot other telecommunications methods, provided that the testimony is given in such a manner that everyone present during the session is able to hear the testimony.
the applicants are:
(1) ms umidat mukhtarova, who was born in 1942,
(2) ms manash mukhtarova, who was born in 1965,
(3) ms mariya umarova, who was born in 1950,
(4) mr lechi umarov, who was born in 1942,
(5) ms zara umarova, who was born in 1977. the first and second applicants are the mother and the sister of mr sharpudi (also spelled as sharpuddi and sharpudin) mukhtarov, who was born in 1975. at the relevant time mr sharpudi mukhtarov lived with his family in the camp for refugees from chechnya in the village of nesterovskaya, ingushetia. the abduction took place in the presence of several witnesses. immediately after the abduction the first applicant informed the authorities thereof and requested that criminal proceedings be opened. the father of mr sharpudi mukhtarov, was granted victim status and questioned. on 13 january 2004 the investigators requested an extension of the investigation’s time frame, stating, amongst other reasons, that there were grounds to suspect that the abduction of mr sharpudi mukhtarov was linked to his friendship with mr zaurbek umarov. the investigators’ decision stated that mr mukhtarov and mr umarov had been abducted together. was informed about this decision by a letter of 20 march 2004. on 19 august 2008 the investigation was suspended again. on 30 april 2009 the investigators sent a request to the ntv channel. on 22 january 2004 the investigators questioned ms z.i., between 5 and 20 february 2004 the investigators questioned mr a.i., they confirmed the circumstances of the abduction as described above. it is unclear whether any reply was given to this request. on 29 april 2009 the first applicant asked the investigators to provide her with copies of documents from the investigation file. her complaints were forwarded to the investigators. she also asked to be granted victim status in the criminal case. the fifth applicant also stated that she had seen the interview with her brother on television in may 2008. mr umarov’s sister, asked the public prosecutor of ingushetia whether any criminal case had been instituted into mr umarov’s disappearance.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kičevo. on 2 february 2010 the applicant submitted a written statement in which he denied that he had collaborated with the state security bodies after 1944. such a statement was to be submitted to the fact verification commission (“the lustration commission”) by public officials and was required under the additional requirement for public office act of 2008 (“the 2008 lustration act”). the commission’s decision, which referred to submissions made by a third person (namely a certain z.t., from which it established that the applicant – referred to in those files as an “operational liaison” (оперативна врска) – had provided relevant information to the state security bodies in the 1970s. after the lustration commission published the above decision (and the notes of the security bodies referred to in the decision) on its website, the applicant requested (making a non-disclosure statement) and obtained a redacted copy of those documents, in the form in which they were published on the commission’s website. the handler who had drawn up some of the notes to which the lustration commission had referred in its decision, stated, inter alia:
“... i drafted [the notes] (содржината) concerning [the applicant] without [his] knowledge, according to my interpretation (по мое видување) and following a spontaneous conversation that he had not requested, let alone intended to be used for a role as a secret collaborator or informant. a university professor and former intelligence officer, regarding the reliability of the documentary evidence against the applicant and whether he could be regarded as a collaborator within the meaning of the 2012 lustration act. in this respect, he submitted a copy of a statement made by v.p. referring to the information in the relevant documents (see paragraph 6 above), which it found truthful (having compared the copy documents in the applicant’s case file with the originals), the court confirmed the lustration commission’s findings that the applicant had collaborated with the security services in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner as a secret informant, notably as an operational liaison. ... [the applicant] had agreed to cooperate with the state security office. on 24 january 2014 the applicant requested that the lustration commission grant him access to the original documents in his case file. in reply, the commission informed him that the originals had been returned to the state archives. the reasoning provided by the lower bodies in that respect had not been sufficient. furthermore, there was no evidence that in return for providing information he had obtained any favours in getting promoted, which was a requirement for the alleged collaboration to fall within the meaning of section 18(4) of the 2012 lustration act. furthermore, they had been admitted into evidence as copy documents, without having their authenticity confirmed by the security bodies. at a hearing held in private, and in the absence of the parties, on 12 june 2014, the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision without hearing the testimony of the witnesses proposed by the applicant. the court added:
“taking into consideration that the lustration commission carries out only a verification of facts to determine if there has either been collaboration or no collaboration with state security bodies, reports drawn up by handlers in [such bodies] are to be regarded as facts”. and asked that the proceedings be conducted as quickly as possible. the applicant contended that on 6 april 2015 the audio material was made public by the then political opposition in the respondent state and was also made available online.
on 5 and 20 march 2007 the zagreb county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu) asked an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) to authorise the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of m.m., on the grounds that he was suspected of drug trafficking. the fourth applicant’s telephone number was noted in that respect. following an application lodged on 3 may 2007 by the zagreb county state attorney’s office, on 4 may 2007 the investigating judge of the zagreb county court authorised the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of the fourth applicant and three other persons, on the grounds that they were suspected of drug trafficking proscribed by article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code. the application refers to the police report ... of 3 may 2007 concerning the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of m.m., in addition to the [information stated] above, it appears that a.j. is obviously not satisfied with cocaine leaving those places in an uncontrolled manner. the following day the investigating judge issued a decision allowing a surveillance measure which included new telephone numbers for a period of three months, and suspended the measure regarding the first applicant’s previous telephone numbers. and the fourth applicant continuously communicated regarding perpetrating the criminal offence proscribed by article 173 § 3 of the criminal code. in may 2007 in zagreb, after acquiring that drug from the first applicant. on 25 march 2008 the trial court dismissed the applicants’ complaints concerning the alleged unlawfulness of the secret surveillance orders as unfounded, and proceeded with the examination of the case. the latter decision was confirmed by the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) on 14 may 2008. therefore, the content of the cited provisions of the oscoc act, to which the appellants refer in their appeals, does not exclude the application of special measures under article 180 § 1 of the code of criminal procedure, but such measures are extended in respect of some criminal offences by the measures provided for under section 41 of the oscoc act. a witness called by the fourth applicant. stated that he had been friends with the fourth applicant, whom he had asked to watch over his son, b.s., had gone to zagreb to purchase an air-conditioning device. had subsequently told him that in zagreb he had purchased drugs from some people. lastly, the first applicant, who disputed his conviction and sentence, challenging all factual aspects of the case and alleging procedural errors in the trial, asked that his lawyer be allowed to attend the session of the appeal panel. the court further held that the sovereignty of the netherlands had not been violated by the interception of the second and third applicants’ telephone conversations, since the croatian authorities had never issued a secret surveillance order against them. the decisions of the constitutional court were served on the lawyer representing the first, second and third applicants and the lawyer representing the fourth applicant on 21 and 24 february 2014 respectively.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in czarnowo. according to the opinions the applicant was fit to work. some of the representative’s letters to the court contained insulting expressions and he was advised that such expressions could amount to contempt of court. on 18 april 2011 the court asked the experts to supplement their opinions but they upheld their earlier conclusions. on 31 may 2011 the court ordered that the applicant be examined by doctors again. in july 2011 a further expert opinion was prepared. it did not differ in its conclusions from the earlier ones. it appears that the applicant refused to undergo an examination at a psychiatric hospital. the applicant’s representative appealed and his appeal was initially rejected for formal reasons but was ultimately admitted for examination on its merits. she also repeated her application for a legal aid lawyer to be appointed. on 22 may 2015 the szczecin regional court gave a judgment in which it dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the zus decision of 29 january 2010. on 27 april 2016 the applicant submitted an application challenging all the judges of the court of appeal. on 25 april 2018 the court granted an application by the applicant for a legal aid lawyer for the purpose of lodging a cassation appeal. a legal aid lawyer was appointed to represent her; however, the applicant requested the appointment of another lawyer. the large number of those applications had made it virtually impossible to deal with the merits of the case. her appeal and a further request to reopen the proceedings were rejected by the szczecin court of appeal in may 2014. on 26 february 2018 the szczecin court of appeal rejected the applicant’s most recent complaint about the length of the proceedings before the court of appeal as it had not been lodged by a lawyer. a detailed description of the relevant domestic law and practice concerning remedies for excessive length of judicial proceedings – in particular, the applicable provisions of the 2004 act – is set out in the court’s decisions in the cases of charzyński v.poland ((dec.), 61444/00, §§ 34-46, echr 2005-v (extracts)) and rutkowski and others v. poland (nos. 72287/10 and 2 others, §§ 75-107, 7 july 2015).
on 30 november 2004 the applicant company signed a contract (“the contract”) with the ministry of finance (“the ministry”) for an investment loan, expressed in the equivalent of the national currency, with the repayments calculated in euros (во денарска противвредност пресметана во евра). clause 11 of the contract stipulated that a statutory default interest rate (затезна камата по стапка yтврдена со закон) was to be paid on all overdue repayments, which, according to an annex forming part of the contract, were expressed in euros. on 4 september 2012 a bailiff issued an enforcement order under the terms of the contract. the applicant company’s protest and appeal against the enforcement order were dismissed by both the president of the ohrid court of first instance (основен суд охрид) and by the bitola court of appeal (апелационен суд битола), with the final decision being dated 3 april 2013. on 17 may 2013 the applicant company lodged a civil claim against the ministry seeking an annulment of clause 11 of the contract, claiming that, in accordance with domestic law, interest on the repayment of loans in foreign currencies should be calculated on the basis of that foreign currency’s domestic rate (домицилна камата) instead of the statutory default interest rate. in that respect it relied on a judgment by the supreme court in which the same provision, contained in an identical contract regarding a state-granted loan to another person, had been annulled (рев1. the applicant company’s claim was dismissed by the ohrid court of first instance and the bitola court of appeal on 7 october and 13 january 2014 respectively, each holding that the loan had been approved in the national currency and therefore the statutory default interest rate applied. neither court commented as to the supreme court’s case-law. the final judgment was served on the applicant company’s representative on 31 march 2014. on 27 may 2015 insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the applicant company. 168/2011 of 8 february 2012, рев.1 бр.74/2012 of 6 december 2012 and рев. 202/2012 of 24 october 2013, the supreme court held that interest on state-granted loans which were to be repaid in amounts expressed in a foreign currency should be calculated on the basis of that currency’s domestic interest rate. the supreme court took the stance that the loan repayment instalments were the determinative factor in the cases, and since, in those cases, the instalments had been expressed in a foreign currency, the statutory default interest rate was not applicable. the same stance was taken in two appeal court judgments (тсж бр. 828/08 of 21 may 2008 and тсж 1527/09 of 11 november 2009).
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently detained in the kyiv pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”). on 1 june 2017 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of kidnapping. the decision merely stated that the reasons advanced by the investigator were sufficient for the court to conclude that the applicant might try to abscond from justice, obstruct the investigation, and influence the other suspect or witnesses in the proceedings. no further details were provided by the court. on 6 june 2017 the applicant was placed in the kyiv sizo. no further details were provided by the courts. on 13 december 2017 the kagarlyk court of kyiv region (“the trial court”) committed the applicant for trial. during the trial the applicant’s detention was again extended a number of times, including on 9 february, 28 march, 24 april, 13 june, 11 september, 7 november 2018 and 11 february 2019. it appears from the relevant decisions that the courts did not address the above-mentioned arguments. according to the available information, between september and november 2017 an ambulance was called ten times to provide the applicant with urgent treatment or to take him outside the sizo. on 8 september 2017 the applicant was discharged from the hospital and returned to the sizo with medical prescriptions and recommendations for further treatment. his medical condition was assessed as being of medium gravity. the neurologist also stated that by 13 september 2017 the applicant had needed further examinations and treatment at a medical facility specialising in neurology, in order to specify the further treatment to be prescribed. he was recommended further supervision by a neurologist and sent back to the sizo. on the same day the district court ordered the kyiv sizo administration to ensure that the applicant underwent an urgent forensic examination. medical treatment for those suffering from cardiac diseases was provided by a therapist. on 3 january 2018 the applicant’s defence lawyer requested the kyiv bureau for forensic medical examinations to carry out a forensic examination with a view to establishing, inter alia, what medical conditions the applicant was suffering from and whether he required medical treatment. the lawyer was further informed that the applicant was being provided with symptomatic treatment at the sizo. a number of tests and examinations were carried out and medication was prescribed. the applicant was also recommended rehabilitation treatment.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1981, 1973 and 1984 respectively. since 2004 they have been serving life sentences in correctional colonies in ukraine. on 11 july 2003 the ukrainian parliament adopted the code on the execution of sentences of ukraine (“the code”). article 151 (“procedure for, and conditions of, the execution and serving of life sentences”) further provided, inter alia, that life prisoners were entitled to one short visit every six months. no reference to prisoners’ gender was made in those articles. at the same time, article 18 (“correctional colonies”) provided that female life prisoners were to serve their sentences in medium-security colonies. article 110 specified that a short visit from relatives or other persons could last for up to four hours and a long visit from close relatives could last for up to three days. by a letter of 27 june 2007 the state department of ukraine for the execution of sentences informed the second applicant, in reply to a letter sent by him on an earlier date, that female life prisoners were entitled to have one long visit every three months, as provided by article 139 of the code, given that they served their sentences in medium-security colonies, as provided by article 18 of the code. referring, in particular, to article 151 of the code, the department further stated that male life prisoners were entitled to have one short visit every six months and that they were not entitled to have long visits. article 150, as amended, stated that persons sentenced to life imprisonment were to serve their sentences as follows: male prisoners ‑ either in maximum-security sectors of medium-security correctional colonies or in maximum-security correctional colonies; and female prisoners – either in medium-security sectors of minimum-security correctional colonies with general conditions of detention or in medium-security correctional colonies. article 151, as amended, stated that life prisoners were entitled to one short visit every three months. it also provided that female life prisoners were to be subject to the regime laid down for prisoners held in medium‑security colonies (that is, the regime provided for in article 139 of the code). article 151 was amended to entitle all life prisoners to one short visit every month and one long visit every three months regardless of the type of correctional colony in which they were detained or the security regime to which they were subject. further amendments to article 151 of the code, which were passed by parliament on 7 september 2016, entitled all life prisoners to one long visit every two months. the first applicant stated that he and his family had wished to maintain their relationships, but as the result of the absence of the right to long visits until 2014 he had had to divorce his wife. his father, grandfather and grandmother had died in 2008, 2009 and 2014 respectively and he had not been able to see them while serving his sentence. the government submitted that while serving his sentence the first applicant had received twenty-eight short visits on unspecified dates and fifteen long visits (between 17 march 2015 and 6 july 2018) from his new wife, mother and his other grandmother. the second applicant stated that, because of the lack of the opportunity to have long visits until 2014, he had lost contact with his family. his relatives had died – in particular he referred to his father having died in 2012 – and when the 2014 amendments entitled him to long visits, there had no longer been anyone to visit him. the government submitted that while serving his sentence the second applicant had had one short visit in 2005 (from his sister) and had not requested any long visits.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in skopje. and fired several shots in his direction, as a consequence of which f.n. was taken to hospital, where he was interviewed by the police. subsequent to the search, the applicant was arrested. identified the applicant as the perpetrator. stated that he had been asked to work on f.n. via diplomatic means, as he had returned to albania. at a hearing held on 22 november 2005 the applicant testified. on 23 november 2005 the trial court sent another summons to j.t. on the same day the trial court requested information regarding the summons of 23 november 2005. the ministry responded that it had forwarded the summons to the albanian authorities and that the trial court should allow more time between hearings to ensure a timely delivery of the summons. the trial judge sent another summons to j.t. in the period between june 2006 and december 2007. one summons was not delivered to him until after the hearing had taken place. had given before the investigating judge, stating that it had made numerous attempts to secure his attendance. had been properly served with several summonses, but had failed to appear. in view of the above, it ruled that there were justified reasons to admit his statement into evidence. it reiterated its earlier findings (see paragraph 19 above), but concluded that the applicant had been guilty of the crimes on the basis of the on-site examination, the statement of j.t., the identification parade and the fact that j.t. had been admitted in compliance with section 351 of the criminal proceedings act.
on 7 july 2000 the applicant company and the ukrvuglegeologiya state company (“the uvg”), an administrative entity of the ministry of fuel and energy of ukraine represented by its own administrative entity, the sevastopol‑based izumrud recreation centre (“the irc”), concluded a ten‑year rental agreement, under which the applicant company rented bedroom block no. on an unspecified date the applicant company applied to the sevastopol office of the state property fund of ukraine (“the fund”) seeking the privatisation of block no. in turn, the latter sought approval from the ministry, which in a letter of 6 august 2003 stated that it did not object. by a decision of 8 december 2003 the fund included block no. 3 in the list of property to be subjected to privatisation. moreover, in 2005 the block was disconnected from the irc’s electricity and water supplies. 3 had not been eligible for privatisation. by a judgment of 1 february 2006, the court partly allowed the claim and dismissed the counterclaim. 3, having obtained title to it following its privatisation, which had not been declared invalid. 3 from its books and to reconnect it to the irc’s utility networks. on 23 august 2006 the supreme court refused to allow an appeal by the uvg against the decision of 21 june 2006. on 23 october 2006 the donetsk regional commercial court allowed a request by the applicant company and replaced the uvg with its successor, the irc state enterprise, as a party in proceedings instituted for the enforcement of the judgment of 1 february 2006 which remained unenforced. they sent a letter to the donetsk regional commercial court, asking it to clarify how the judgment of 1 february 2006 was to be enforced. it appears that they did not receive any reply and accordingly stayed the enforcement proceedings. it stated that the uvg, a geological-service enterprise, was a company of national importance. it thus belonged to the category of state property that had not been eligible for privatisation. at the moment of conclusion of the contract of 26 december 2003, block no. 3 had been part of the uvg’s integral property complex. on 10 november 2006 the sevastopol commercial court of appeal upheld the above judgment. as to the applicant company’s objections, it stated that it was the irc state enterprise, and not the uvg, which should have been the proper respondent (counterclaimant) in the case when the judgment of 1 february 2006 was adopted, and that the applicant company had failed to prove that the same dispute with the irc state enterprise had already been decided by the courts.
the present case concerns criminal proceedings against the applicant, who was minister of defence in the period between july 2000 and may 2001, and three other defendants (k.gj., in february 2001, the company was bought by lj.p. several witnesses were examined and a forensic accounting report was commissioned. on 11 june 2001 the investigating judge heard evidence from k.k., on 18 june 2001 the investigating judge heard evidence from the applicant, who denied the charges against him. solely in the presence of the public prosecutor. he denied any personal acquaintance with the applicant and stated that lj.p. had asked him to make a bid to supply food to the ministry. had signed the contracts on behalf of the company, although he had not authorised him to represent the company. the applicant gave his statement at the trial hearing held on 13 june 2003. throughout these proceedings he maintained his innocence. he maintained that the procurement process had been conducted through the ministry’s administration (стручни служби) and the undersecretary, that he had not been informed of the details of individual contracts and that the two contracts had been lawfully concluded. maintained that the two contracts had been concluded in accordance with the law as they had been exempt from the regular process under the public procurement act for the following reasons: the food contract had concerned urgent procurement; and the construction contract had concerned issues of security and defence. at a hearing held on 11 september 2003 the trial court, despite the objections of the defence, read out z.s. m.’s owner) also testified, confirming that the ministry had withdrawn from the construction contract that had been initially signed with his company. who maintained his earlier statements (see paragraph 8 above). ’s address abroad had been known and the trial court could have summoned him through diplomatic channels. the defence challenged the veracity of the letters and applied to have the signatories examined at the trial. relying on a considerable amount of evidence, including the testimony of ministry officials who had participated in the two contracts and other witnesses, written material related to the procurement, two expert reports and the statements of the two experts at the trial, the trial court concluded the two contracts had not been awarded in a process compliant with the rules of public procurement. it further found that the trial court had admitted into the file evidence proposed by both the prosecution and the defence that had been necessary for establishing the relevant facts.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in yalta, the autonomous republic of crimea. the report suggested that the building was in poor technical condition with its carrying walls unsafe. the agreement was approved by the council during its 19 october 2005 session. according to the applicant she was not aware of the agreement at the time. no copy of the plan has been made available to the court. m, had two rooms and was located away from yalta city centre. the council and the executive committee refused to take the apartment into municipal ownership. on 17 july 2007 the executive committee applied to the yalta city court to have the applicant evicted and her title to the pushkinska flat terminated, her moved to the sosnova flat and her property rights over the latter flat established. on 4 october 2007 the yalta city court allowed the executive committee’s application. on 4 april 2008 the council joined the proceedings as a co-plaintiff and supported the executive committee’s claims. on 9 april 2008 the yalta city court found against the applicant. it annulled the applicant’s title to the pushkinska flat, ordered her eviction and rehousing in the sosnova flat and vested her with the title to the latter flat. it had more rooms and space than the pushkinska flat and was in an appropriate condition and in the same city. even assuming that the building was in poor structural condition, no proper decision existed suggesting that it would be subject to demolition. she argued that her property thus would remain extant. the offered flat had not been of the same value as the pushkinska flat and had not compensated her in full for her losses. in support, she provided an expert report, which stated that the building at no. the applicant also disputed the fairness of the calculations used by the first-instance court, referring to the fact that, just before the pushkinska building had been declared dangerous, the company had bought several flats from the applicant’s neighbours, which had been in poor condition, for very high prices – much higher than the building price referred to by the council. on 9 july 2009 the executive committee granted the title to the pushkinska flat to the company. in 2018, in her comments on the government’s observations, the applicant informed the court that the building at 1 pushkinska street had not been demolished but renovated, with an additional floor added on top, and had been converted into a privately owned hotel.
the applicants were born in 1976, 1972, 1976, 1970 and 1976 respectively. the applicants were secondary school teachers in a private chain of schools in moldova called orizont, which has been in operation since 1993. mr yasin ozdil had lived in moldova since 2015 with his wife and their two minor children. mr riza dogan had lived in moldova since 1993 with his wife and their two minor children, who are moldovan citizens. mr sedat hasan karacaoglu had lived in moldova since 1998 with his wife. all the applicants had valid residence permits for moldova. several criminal investigations were subsequently initiated by the appropriate prosecuting authorities in relation to suspected members of that organisation. in may 2017 the turkish prime minister visited moldova and requested from his moldovan counterpart the shutdown of the orizont schools. they sought to obtain refugee status in moldova because they feared reprisals in their country of origin, turkey, on the grounds of their political views. on the same day the turkish media reported that the turkish secret service had conducted a successful operation in moldova, during which seven members of the fethullah gülen movement had been arrested. the fate of the applicants, and even whether they were still in moldova, remained unknown to their families for several weeks. on 7 september 2018, the head of the bma, o.p., stated in an interview that the authority had not been involved in the case of the seven orizont teachers and that the procedure for declaring them undesirable and removing them from moldova had not been carried out by the bma. the decisions contained a thorough analysis of the manner in which the gülen movement followers had been treated in turkey and concluded that the applicants’ fear of reprisals at the hands of the turkish authorities were justified. the bma concluded that the applicants fulfilled the legal requirements to be granted asylum in moldova. the applicants were given fifteen days to leave the country and they were entitled to challenge the decisions within thirty days. several days after the applicants’ arrest and transfer to turkey their families also received from the bma decisions dated 5 september 2018, banning the applicants from entering moldovan territory for a period of five years and ordering their expulsion under supervision from moldova by the bma in accordance with section 58 of the status of aliens act (see paragraph 27 below). however, their actions were dismissed on the grounds that the powers of attorney had not been signed by the applicants themselves. the court decisions were challenged before the hierarchically superior court but without any success. in its report, the european parliament issued a statement in which it expressed itself in the following terms on the manner in which the applicants had been transferred from turkey:
“29.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in elbasan, albania. on 2 december 2010 the shkodër court of appeal upheld the shkodër district court’s decision. was sent to serve his prison sentence in the lezhë detention facility. was diagnosed by the doctor of the lezhë detention facility as suffering from psoriasis, parapanesis inferior (partial paralysis of both legs) and elephantiasis. it appears that on 22 february 2011 sh.p. on 17 february 2011 his mother had told him that his brother had fallen ill and was being transferred to the hospital in tirana. when he had arrived at the hospital, he had found his brother dead. he added that he wanted to know the cause of his brother’s death. had been transferred to that facility on 9 february 2011. on 9 march 2011 and again on 25 march 2011 the tirana prosecutor’s office requested sh.p. on 21 march 2011 the lezhë detention facility replied by letter stating that the applicant had been suffering from dyspnea, his lower limbs had both had oedemas, and that he had therefore been urgently transferred to tirana prison hospital. on 10 march 2011, the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered a series of investigative actions to be carried out by a judicial police officer:
“(1)  to contact forensic experts who would carry out a forensic examination to find out the cause of death of the deceased; (2)  to seize the criminal and medical files of sh.p. and (5)  to carry out any other action which might be deemed necessary before 29 march 2011.” he had been treated like any other patient and the treatment prescribed had been administered in accordance with the rules. on 30 march 2011 a group of forensic experts carried out an examination of sh.p. two ecchymoses were noticed on both forearms. with regard to the question whether sh.p. furthermore, the decision stated that there was no fact, evidence or indication that a criminal offence could have been committed. on 17 may 2011, the applicant lodged a complaint with the tirana district court against the decision of the tirana prosecutor’s office. on 23 january 2014 the supreme court rejected an appeal lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in piaski. it stipulated that she was to pay to the claimant, a certain d.k., she challenged that basis for the payment order and considered it illegal and unfounded. she further applied for exemption from the court fees. on 13 july 2011 a court officer from the koszalin regional court (referendarz sądowy) decided to partly exempt her from the fees. the court examined in detail the financial situation of the applicant. as regards the first four months of 2011 the applicant had declared a gross income of pln 53,600 and expenses of pln 48,500; therefore she had generated a net income of over pln 5,000. in an extensively reasoned decision the domestic court concluded that the applicant should be expected to pay one third of the fees due for lodging an appeal against the payment order. she reiterated that her business had generated losses and that she had been financially dependent on her family. on 22 august 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a second request for exemption from the court fees. the applicant submitted that she had wound up her company’s activity as it had been operating at a loss. having examined all the arguments relied on by the applicant, the court considered that the situation did not justify a total exemption from the court fees. the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 29 september 2011 the applicant lodged a third request for exemption from the court fees. she submitted that her financial situation had not improved and that she had no income whatsoever. moreover her car broke down which generated further costs. she requested the court to exempt her from that fee. on 22 december 2011 the court partly granted her request. the decision was delivered to the applicant on 10 april 2012. it appears that around that time the applicant took up employment.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in stalowa wola. found those members of the group and proceeded to arrest them. he was subsequently beaten by another officer with a truncheon. when leaving the room, one of the officers slammed the door in the applicant’s face. however, he continued to resist, and was aggressive and vulgar towards the officers. subsequently, the applicant was examined by a doctor, who found no reasons why he could not be detained. the doctor noted that the applicant had bruising on his left thigh and had twisted his left knee. the judgment was upheld by the tarnobrzeg regional court on 28 october 2014. from the proceedings described in paragraphs 15-17 above. during the proceedings the prosecutor heard evidence from witnesses (people who had been involved in the incident, police officers and medical staff) and also obtained expert reports. on 31 october 2013 a visual technology expert prepared a report. there was no footage of him limping before entering the room. in his view, the instability had not been acute, and could have occurred earlier due to an injury or illness. on 12 december 2013 the prosecutor questioned dr h.l., another doctor who had treated the applicant in stalowa wola district hospital on 26 june 2013. since the applicant had refused to get into the police car, the officers had warned him that they would use direct restraint measures (środki przymusu bezpośredniego), and eventually they had hit him with truncheons on his lower legs, thighs and forearms. subsequently, the applicant had been taken to another room in order to undergo a body search. the court held that the statements of the applicant’s friends who had been involved in the incident were not coherent. on the other hand, the court considered that the evidence given by the police officers was logical, coherent and consistent. furthermore, there were no indications that the police officers had abused their powers or used disproportionate force against the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in vinkovci. on 19 september 1998 the applicant married d.m., on 20 march 2009 the municipal court issued a second interim custody and contact order, granting the applicant contact rights one day per week, every second weekend, every second public holiday and half of the school holidays. on 12 october 2012 the sesvete municipal court rendered a judgment awarding custody rights to the mother and contact rights to the applicant. the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows:
“the child is eleven and a half years old and, notwithstanding the significance of the mother’s influence on his development (concerning the father’s allegations of manipulation), he leaves the impression of a boy standing firmly behind his beliefs and attitudes, who expresses his will openly and clearly ...
the child wishes to live with his mother and to spend a maximum of two hours on saturdays with his father, without supervision, as his weekly schedule is full of school and music assignments. he uses the court to ask his parents to do everything they can in order to bring the court proceedings to an end. ... [the vinkovci social welfare centre] suggested father-son meetings every saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. ... for seven days during the winter holidays, fifteen days during the summer holidays and on alternate public holidays. he refused to talk to the father or to her, and showed resistance towards them. [ with the passage of time, they are drifting apart and argue more and more, which is evident from the enforcement proceedings and the supervision of meetings, which negatively influence their child, deprived of the freedom of choice. both parties lodged appeals against that judgment, which were dismissed by the second-instance court. if she failed to comply with the court order, the applicant suggested that the court enforcement officer, the police and the representatives of the social welfare centre intervene at the scene. on the same day the vinkovci municipal court (općinski sud u vinkovcima) issued an enforcement order, setting an eight-day time-limit for d.m. on 11 october 2010 the vinkovci municipal court issued a fresh enforcement order. on 27 august 2013 the applicant sought enforcement of the contact arrangements as set out in the sesvete municipal court’s final judgment of 12 october 2012 (see paragraph 19 above). meanwhile, on 9 june 2011 the applicant brought criminal charges against d.m. during those proceedings, on 11 october 2012 the court heard the applicant’s son, who stated that he did not wish to have contacts with the applicant and that this attitude had not been induced by his mother. on 16 may 2013 the vukovar municipal court found d.m. the applicant was instructed to pursue his civil claim for damages in separate civil proceedings. on 30 september 2018 the vukovar municipal court sentenced d.m. on 13 october 2008 the sesvete social welfare centre concluded that the begović family needed professional assistance and referred them to the zagreb child protection clinic for assessment and possible treatment.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained in włocławek. on 1 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and detained on remand. on 2 march 2010 the applicant was indicted before the łódź regional court. the bill of indictment was directed against the applicant and twenty‑two co-accused charged with over 900 offences in total. the applicant was charged on thirty-eight counts with respect to various offences related to stealing cars, dealing in drugs, assaults and burglaries, in the context of an organised criminal gang. in consequence, the proceedings against the applicant were to be transferred to another division of the łódź regional court. the decision pertaining to the competence of the court was quashed on 14 december 2010. on 28 december 2010 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention on remand. on 4 february 2011 the proceedings were stayed pending the outcome of another trial, but that decision was quashed upon appeal on 16 march 2011. the case was transferred to the relevant division of the court in march 2011, and thereafter the presiding judge scheduled the beginning of the trial for 14 september 2011 and undertook other preparative actions (such as tracing the addresses of some twelve witnesses). during the proceedings the applicant lodged multiple procedural requests which were examined by the trial court. in particular, he asked for adjournments of hearings, asked for new evidence to be admitted, and challenged a judge and a prosecutor. the łódź regional court held about twenty-four hearings in total and on 13 may 2013 convicted the applicant and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. the applicant appealed against the judgment. a hearing of the appellate court scheduled for 15 april 2014 was cancelled due to the absence of the applicant’s lawyer. on 12 june 2014 the łódź court of appeal allowed the applicant’s appeal in part and reduced his sentence to eight years’ imprisonment. the applicant lodged two complaints under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaints of breaches of the right to have a case examined in an investigation conducted or supervised by a prosecutor, and in judicial proceedings, without undue delay (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu przygotowawczym prowadzonym lub nadzorowanym przez prokuratora i postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki - “the 2004 act”). on 7 september 2011 the łódź court of appeal dismissed the first complaint. the court, relying on the convention principles, ruled that, taking into account the complexity of the case, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive. on 28 november 2012 the łódź court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s second complaint.
the applicant company, virprod-lux s.r.l., on 13 april 2000 the tax authority seized a building from a state‑owned company, company v., on account of taxes which were due. on 1 october 2000, at the request of the tax authority, the building was valued by an estate agency at 352,000 moldovan lei (mdl). on 29 january 2001 the department of privatisation and administration of state property sold the building in question to company b. for mdl 360,500 (approximately 29,678 euros (eur), following a public auction. on 25 april 2003 the applicant company bought the building from company b. for mdl 628,000 (approximately eur 22,053). on 29 march 2007 the prosecutor general’s office initiated court proceedings in which it sought the annulment of both the sale of the building on 29 january 2001 and the subsequent transaction between company b. and the applicant company. it also sought the return of the building to its initial owner, company v. the reason relied upon by the prosecutor’s general’s office was that the valuation of the building conducted by the estate agency had not been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law. the applicant company opposed the prosecutor general’s action and argued, among other things, that it was time-barred. on 21 august 2007 the economic court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor general’s action as time-barred. the court held, inter alia, that in accordance with the statute of limitations, the prosecutor general’s action could not be initiated more than three years after the events in dispute had taken place. on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of justice upheld an appeal by the prosecutor general, reversed the judgment of the economic court of appeal, and upheld the action in its entirety. the supreme court considered that the prosecutor general’s action concerned a declaration of the absolute nullity of the contracts in question and that therefore, in accordance with article 217 of the civil code, enacted on 12 june 2003, it could not be limited in time. following this judgment, the transactions of 29 january 2001 and 25 april 2003 were annulled and each party involved was ordered to return to the other parties whatever they received by virtue of those transactions. on 7 december 2007 the applicant company lodged a revision request against the above judgment in which it indicated that it had carried out an expert evaluation of the disputed building by an independent expert who determined its value at mdl 8,550,000 (approximately eur 511,440) after the improvements made by the applicant company to it. in the meantime, the applicant company did not leave the disputed building because it had its production line there and it needed time and resources to find another suitable building and to move its production line. since company v. did not need the disputed building, the applicant company proposed to it and the latter accepted to conclude a friendly settlement agreement in accordance with which company v. agreed that the applicant company would retain ownership of the building in exchange for mdl 325,092 (approximately eur 19,328). on 20 march 2008, within the framework of the review proceedings, the supreme court of justice upheld the parties’ request to settle the case. it confirmed the friendly settlement agreement between the applicant company and company v., and on that basis it quashed its previous judgment and rejected the prosecutor general’s action. it is unclear from the materials of the case and the parties’ submissions whether after the adoption of the judgment of 11 october 2007 by the supreme court of justice, company b. returned to the applicant company the amount received as a result of the transaction of 25 april 2003.
the applicants, who were born in 1980 and 1977, respectively, live in slobozia and parcani, in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”). in view of the fact that, in the applicants’ submission, it was impossible for them to apply to the court directly, the application was lodged by their mothers. on 2 march 2005 the applicants were arrested by the “mrt” authorities and placed in detention on remand on suspicion of murder. on 1 june 2009 they were convicted by an “mrt” court and sentenced to terms of fourteen years and a half, and fourteen years’ imprisonment, respectively. on 4 august 2009 the supreme court of the “mrt” upheld the above judgment, but reduced the sentence of the first applicant to fourteen years’ imprisonment. it does not appear from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicants informed the authorities of the republic of moldova about the proceedings against them and the conviction and detention in the “mrt”. in december 2014 the applicants challenged their conviction by way of an extraordinary appeal before the supreme court of the republic of moldova which, on 14 february 2015, upheld their appeal and quashed the judgments of the “mrt” courts on the ground that they had been issued by unconstitutional tribunals. the applicants were released from detention on 20 july and 20 august 2015, respectively, for reasons which were not related to the supreme court of moldova’s decision of 14 february 2015.
according to the applicants, in the period from 20 may to 6 july 2010 they participated in obstructive protest activities against a road-construction project, in particular tree-felling, in gorky park (парк ім. on 27 april 2010 a commission of municipal officials examined the trees which had to be felled in order to allow the road construction and drew up a detailed list of the trees, including their varieties, ages, diameters and state of health. on 18 may 2010 the kharkiv regional environmental protection department approved the list. on 26 may 2010 the regional architecture and construction inspectorate (інспекція державного архітектурно-будівельного контролю у харківській області) issued to the municipal construction department a permit to carry out preparatory work for the road construction. on 25 may 2010 the main contractor asked the chief of the city police to send police units to the site at 7 a.m. on 26 may 2010 to prevent third parties from infiltrating the construction site. in particular, they climbed the trees with the help of climbing equipment, and attached themselves to the trees to be felled or interfered with work to be carried out by machinery by placing themselves in front of it. the report shows workers felling trees, apparently unobstructed. in the course of that action, the third applicant was closely approached by two loggers, subsequently identified as a. and k., employees of one of the subcontractors. one of them nearly injured the third applicant. then the people with badges, having lined up elbow‑to‑elbow, start pushing, apparently attempting to push the protesters away from the crossing towards the periphery of the marked-off area. eventually, the area previously occupied by the protesters is cleared and an excavator moves through it. individuals with mg badges had pushed him and others away from the railway crossing and encircled them. he had seen many people in the place where trees were being felled and had gone closer. in the course of the hearing before the district court the third applicant stated that he had indeed been in gorky park, he had not heard any orders to leave the site from the police officers but had heard it from a person in civilian clothing. the court proceeded to issue the reprimand. concerning the tenth applicant, the court likewise pointed to inconsistencies between various police reports in the case file and the lack of evidence that the officers had duly instructed him to leave. on 6 july 2010 the sixth applicant was arrested and charged with malicious insubordination in the face of orders given by police officers to leave the construction site. at the hearing the police officers supported the charges. on 2 july 2010 the regional environmental protection department issued a positive environmental impact assessment (висновок державної екологічної експертизи) of the road construction project. they have not informed the court of any further developments.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in corjova. he had his car registered with the authorities of the republic of moldova and had moldovan registration plates installed on it. on 16 december 2006 a customs officer of the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) stopped the applicant at a check‑point and seized his car on the ground that upon entry on the territory of transdniestria he had failed to stop at the border. he was later obliged to pay a fine of 58 united states dollars in order to recover the car. on 19 december 2006 the applicant’s driving licence was seized on the ground that he had failed to comply with traffic rules. his car was also seized, on the ground of his failure to comply with customs regulations, but the seizure report was destroyed and he was able to recover his car five hours later after the intervention of a group of russian peacekeepers. his driving licence was not returned and he was issued a temporary driving licence. according to the applicant, he complained to the authorities of moldova, but they informed him that there was nothing they could help him with. the moldovan government disputed the fact that the applicant had informed them about the circumstances of the present case. reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in vantaa, finland. had a temporary residence permit (expired in summer 2015). the applicant also has two children from a previous marriage, both residing in vantaa. suffered two strokes and was partially paralysed. she had not, however, fully recovered mobility in one hand and one leg. travelled to russia, accompanied by her father, for further medical treatment and physiotherapy. should have joint custody of v. and that the latter should reside with the applicant. the judgment was enforceable pending a decision in appeal proceedings. on 20 november 2015 the helsinki court of appeal dismissed i.k. in the meantime, while the appeal proceedings were pending, on 5 february 2015 i.k. the finnish ministry of justice sent an enquiry to the ministry of science and education of the russian federation, which confirmed that the child was residing with i.k. relying on article 13 (b) of the hague convention, she claimed that v. was already settled in her new environment in russia, that she did not speak the finnish language, that v.’s return to finland would separate them and that it would thus be psychologically traumatic for her. it also found that there were no grounds for granting an exception to the child’s immediate return under article 13 (b) of the hague convention: the argument concerning the risk of v. suffering psychological harm in the event of her return to finland and the allegation that the applicant was suffering from a mental disorder were found unsubstantiated; i.k. on 5 october 2016 enforcement proceedings were instituted against the applicant. the applicant has not seen his daughter since she left finland. however ... it has to be admitted that the removal of the child can sometimes be justified by objective reasons which have to do either with its person, or with the environment with which it is most closely connected. ... from the convention’s standpoint, the removal of a child by one of the joint holders without the consent of the other, is equally wrongful, and this wrongfulness derives in this particular case, not from some action in breach of a particular law, but from the fact that such action has disregarded the rights of the other parent which are also protected by law, and has interfered with their normal exercise. the exceptions contained in [article 13] (b) deal with situations where international child abduction has indeed occurred, but where the return of the child would be contrary to its interests ... each of the terms used in this provision, is the result of a fragile compromise reached during the deliberations of the special commission and has been kept unaltered. in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration. the child shall be registered immediately after birth and shall have the right from birth ... to know and be cared for by his or her parents.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ștefan-vodă. b. admitted her guilt and declared that she had had an arrangement with the applicant to transfer s. to turkey for the purpose of sexual exploitation. she said that s.’s passport had been kept by the applicant so that he could prepare the documents necessary for s.’s transfer. she said the applicant had promised her money for this and that she had received an advance payment. it had been upon learning this that she had gone to the police. stated that she had been the landlord who had rented her apartment to b. and that s. and c.t. she said that b. had told her about her arrangement with the applicant to transfer s. to turkey, that the applicant had intended to take care of all the formalities and that he had promised a reward for each woman she had found who could be moved to turkey for the purpose of prostitution. during the court proceedings, she denied having told s. about b.’s criminal intentions. the court noted that c. had changed her depositions given during criminal investigation, in which she had stated that b. had revealed her criminal intentions, and had chosen to rely on those initial depositions. the district court convicted both b. and the applicant on all counts, sentencing b. to seven years’ imprisonment, but absolving her from the execution of the sentence because she was infected with hiv, and sentencing the applicant to eight years’ imprisonment. the prosecutor and the applicant appealed against this judgment. on 6 december 2007 after having heard the prosecutor, the applicant and the victim, the bender court of appeal concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant had indeed acted together with b. and that the first-instance court had based its findings essentially on b.’s statements. the court upheld b.’s conviction and ordered that she serve her sentence only after her child had turned eight years of age. the prosecutor appealed against this judgment. on 1 april 2008 the supreme court of justice held a hearing at which the applicant and his lawyer were absent. during the proceedings the applicant was represented by a pro bono lawyer and no witnesses gave evidence. according to the applicant, his chosen representative never received a summons for this hearing. the court quashed the judgment of the bender court of appeal, upheld the applicant’s conviction by the first-instance court and ordered a fresh examination of the case in respect of b. it did not examine directly any evidence and based its findings on the case file as established by the lower courts. on 20 october 2008 the chișinău court of appeal held a hearing in the absence of the applicant and of his representative. s., a victim, also submitted an extraordinary appeal, arguing that the proceedings had been unfair because she had also not been summoned and that because the applicant had been convicted unfairly because he was not guilty.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in chişinău. the applicant had a dispute with h. over ownership of a house. he brought a claim against h. seeking acknowledgement of his property rights, as his father’s heir, and h.’s eviction from the house. h. lodged a counterclaim, seeking acknowledgement of her property rights to the house as she had built it. on 20 december 2007 the buiucani district court dismissed h.’s counterclaim and allowed the applicant’s claim in full. on 20 may 2008 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the earlier judgment and dismissed h.’s appeal. h. did not attend the appellate hearing, even though the summons had been repeatedly sent to the address she had provided in her appeal. a registered letter was returned with a note stating that h. did not live at the address indicated by her. the judgment became final after the expiry of the two-month time-limit for lodging an appeal on points of law. on 11 may 2009 h. lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice, stating that she had only learned of the judgment of 20 may 2008 on 23 april 2009. in her application, she indicated the same address as in the proceedings before the court of appeal. the applicant asked the supreme court of justice to dismiss the appeal as being lodged outside the legal time-limit. he submitted that since it had been h. who had lodged the appeal with the chişinău court of appeal, it had been her duty to enquire about the progress of the proceedings and not to wait for a year before doing so. on 16 october 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed h.’s appeal on points of law, quashed the previous judgments and delivered a new judgment on the merits of the case dividing the disputed house into equal shares between the applicant and h. the court argued that the appeal had not been lodged outside the time-limit because h. had not attended the hearing before the court of appeal and there was nothing in the file to suggest that that court had informed her of the availability of the full judgment. the court concluded that without any evidence of the date when h. had learned of the judgment, her appeal was considered to have been submitted on time.
the first applicant was born in 1984 and the second applicant in 2009. on 11 june 2014 a called “the brave telephone”, a children’s helpline, which advised her to contact the polyclinic for the protection of children in x (hereinafter “the polyclinic”). on 16 june 2014 a went to the y police station to report that c had been sexually abusing their child, b, at the time aged four and a half. she accepts to stay alone, but on several occasions she exits the room and asks that her mother join her. she provides no further details ...
in conclusion ... [the girl] is growing up in a family with separating parents, she witnesses their broken down relationship, and is exposed to negative attributes of the other parent by the mother, which creates a pressure on the girl ... during the conversation she says that the reason for her coming was inadequate behaviour by the father, but she has difficulties providing details. the girl talks about the father’s alleged actions spontaneously, without any discomfort ... later on, we get the information that her mother told her to say so ...
psychiatric profile: ... established verbal communication, says she had been sexually abused by the father, but without discomfort or adequate affections ...
psychiatric assessment does not show signs clearly showing sexual abuse (affectionate inadequacy), but it is not possible to exclude inducement of the girl, which constitutes a risk of emotional abuse. on 6 october 2014 the y police interviewed b’s babysitter, who described incidents of sexual behaviour by b. on the same day, the police provided the z state attorney’s office with another special report on the actions taken following a’s criminal complaint. the decision describes in detail all the evidence gathered. polyclinic’s report ... shows that the child was exposed to inappropriate content and/or conduct by an adult with sexual connotations, the fact is that none of the four institutions which had previously treated the child, including the a.b.r. it was declared inadmissible by the constitutional court on 28 april 2015 on the ground that the impugned decision did not amount to an act by which “a competent court has decided on the merits about a right or an obligation of the applicant or a criminal charge against her”. it appears that this order has been complied with. it provides that all actions by the police, save for urgent measures, are to be carried out by officers specially trained in sexual violence cases and that the police must inform the victim of the possibility of obtaining expert help for the protection of his or her physical and psychological well-being. all procedures conducted by state bodies are to be carried out by experts in the relevant fields. a social welfare centre should appoint a special guardian for the child if its experts assess that his or her interests are in conflict with those of the parent. each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to assist victims, in the short and long term, in their physical and psycho-social recovery. each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that the following intentional conduct is criminalised:
a.  engaging in sexual activities with a child who, according to the relevant provisions of national law, has not reached the legal age for sexual activities;
...”
chapter vii – investigation, prosecution and procedural lawarticle 30 – principles
“1. ...”
article 31 – general measures of protection
“1. each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that all interviews with the victim or, where appropriate, those with a child witness, may be videotaped and that these videotaped interviews may be accepted as evidence during the court proceedings, according to the rules provided by its internal law. it was signed by croatia on 22 january 2013, ratified on 12 june 2018 and came into force on 1 october 2018. this treatment should be given to them, in whichever way they have come into contact with judicial or non-judicial proceedings or other interventions, and regardless of their legal status and capacity in any procedure or case.
by a court decision the applicant was under an obligation to provide financial support in the amount of a quarter of his income for his child, who was living separately. the court of appeal noted that the bailiffs had relied on the official data obtained from the authorities and had correctly determined the amount of debt by referring to the available information on the applicant’s income. ms kobilyeva married her husband in 1984. both the applicant and her husband worked at a rubber-production company. in 2002 a flat ownership certificate was issued to the applicant’s husband. in 2008 the applicant divorced her husband. the court had regard to the written evidence as well as oral statements of the company director, who had submitted that the company had provided the flat to the applicant’s former husband in order to reward him for his professional achievements. on 27 october 2009 the kyiv regional court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, holding that she had failed to prove that the flat was the marital property of the former spouses and that she had made any contribution to the acquisition of the flat. the applicant then raised those arguments before the supreme court. the applicant’s husband worked at company o. from 1981 until his death on 3 july 2006. on 20 december 1995 company o., the applicant’s husband and k., a construction company, concluded an agreement under which the applicant’s husband was to be provided with a three-room flat, no. company o. financed the construction work. 42 in the building which was under construction. after the death of her husband, the applicant instituted civil proceedings against company o. and company k., seeking to oblige them to provide her with a flat analogous to the one specified in the contracts with her husband. on 19 january 2011 the supreme court dismissed as unfounded an appeal on points of law. the applicant’s grandmother worked in an agricultural collective farm and was entitled to a share in the plots of land allocated to that farm. the court noted that its attempt to obtain that evidence had not been successful. on 4 november 2010 the kyiv court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the first-instance court’s reasoning that by not providing the official list of citizens who had received the shares of land, the applicant had failed to prove that his grandmother had not received any such share. however, even in the absence of the list, there were official replies from the local authorities confirming, in his opinion, that his grandmother had not been allocated the share of land to which she had been entitled. on 4 january 2011 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters dismissed the appeal on points of law, noting that the applicant had failed to present the above-mentioned list of citizens in support of his claim.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in überherrn. in april 2007 the prison authorities discovered that a mobile phone had been smuggled into the prison in december 2006. in may 2007 an investigation was opened against the applicant and in october 2007 several investigative measures against the applicant, including telephone surveillance, were ordered. charges were also brought against seven other accused. the refusal to appoint counsel for one co-accused was appealed against before the regional court, which decided on that matter in april 2009. the first hearing of the main proceedings took place on 3 may 2010 and after fourteen hearings the district court convicted the applicant for having taken a bribe and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment of one year and four months, suspended on probation. on 23 september 2010 the written judgment was filed by the court. in october 2010 the applicant was preliminarily suspended from his duties and his salary was reduced by approximately 25 %. the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment. in addition, the four co-accused and the public prosecutor appealed against the respective judgments. in september 2011 the applicant changed his defence counsel; new counsel was provided with access to the case file. the appeal proceedings commenced on 25 october 2011 and ended after seven hearings on 18 november 2011. it provided the judgment in writing on 23 december 2011. on the day on which the judgment was pronounced, 18 november 2011, the public prosecutor lodged an appeal on points of law and submitted the reasoning on 16 january 2012. the regional court convicted the applicant for having taken a bribe and sentenced him to eight months’ imprisonment. the court had also taken into account that the applicant had been suspended from service as soon as he had been convicted by the court of first instance and as a consequence had been receiving only a reduced salary since then. on 29 april 2016 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as being manifestly ill-founded. his subsequent complaint of a violation of his right to be heard was to no avail either. as a consequence of the conviction becoming final, the applicant lost his status as a civil servant pursuant to the status of civil servants act (beamtenstatusgesetz). by a decision of 12 july 2016 the administrative court dismissed his application, holding, inter alia, that it was contrary to the status of civil servants act (see paragraph 34 below).
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in the poltava region. according to the applicant, who lived in donetsk at the material time, on 27 may 2008 a police officer called him and invited him to attend the donetsk regional police station to discuss his past service in the police. after thirty minutes of ill-treatment he lost consciousness. he was then held at the police station until the next evening when, at 7.52 p.m., he was taken to appear before the investigator, sh. the search report, drawn up on 28 may 2008 and attested by witnesses k. and b., stated that nothing had been seized from the applicant during his search. doctors noted in a medical certificate that he had informed them that at about 9 p.m. on 27 may 2008 he had been beaten by police officers. they had been caused by blunt objects or by impact with them. there were no signs of electric shock treatment. on 3 june 2008 the prosecutor questioned the applicant as a suspect in a.’s murder. the applicant had not been questioned that day because he had given confused answers to their questions and had asked for some time to think things over. but he had said that he would wait for him outside and had left the police station premises at about 11 a.m., having put his signature in the visitors’ book. only t. had been able to write her complaint against g. in it. on 6 may 2010 p. supplemented his expert report of 2 july 2008 by adding that injuries which could have been sustained during the period indicated by the applicant had also included haematomas on his back. he stated, inter alia, that if the prosecutor had established that he had been taken to the police station on 28 may 2008 at about 8 p.m. without any visible injuries, and the medical examination at 10 p.m. had found numerous injuries on him, that meant that he had received them on 28 may 2008 between 8 and 10 p.m. the applicant also complained that those who had attended the police station on 27 and 28 may 2008 and could have been witnesses to the events on those days had not been identified. a haematoma on the applicant’s left knee had been sustained upon impact of that area with a blunt object; it could have resulted from him falling over. in particular, the prosecutor had not complied with the court decision requiring a handwriting analysis. nor had he questioned the officer who had been on duty on 27 may 2008 and a doctor who had examined the applicant on 28 may 2008. on 6 july 2011 the prosecutor again refused to open criminal proceedings. the applicant’s father complained to the higher prosecutors, pointing to a contradiction between the prosecutor’s decisions in which it had been established that the police officers had not seen any injuries on the applicant when he had been taken to the police station on 28 may 2008, and the expert report of 2 july 2008, which stated that a number of injuries could have been sustained by the applicant on 27 may 2008. the parties did not inform the court of the subsequent events.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in makhachkala, republic of dagestan. in 1990 the applicant started living with ms t.k. in 1991 and 1992 they had two daughters, kr. ( born on 1 july 1991) and k. (born on 13 july 1992). the applicant did not register his paternity. both girls continued living with the applicant. registered his paternity in respect of kr. and k. however, the girls still remained living with the applicant. in july 2007 k. stopped attending school, frequently ran away from home and exhibited delinquent behaviour. she allegedly stole her mother’s jewellery. in december 2007, following an application by t.k., k. was placed in a temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders. on an unspecified date shortly afterwards k. was placed in a closed educational institution for minors in the town of pokrov, vladimir region, some 2,500 km from her home town of makhachkala. according to the applicant, his daughter’s correspondence with him was subjected to censorship by the facility’s administration. in the meantime, the applicant brought proceedings seeking the establishment of his paternity vis-à-vis kr. on 9 april 2008 the district court established the applicant’s paternity in respect of kr. and k. and annuled the registration of yu.k. the present application was already pending before the european court of human rights when, on 7 august 2008, the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of dagestan, by way of a supervisory review, quashed the decision of 18 february 2008 as unlawful and unjustified, and discontinued the proceedings. the court held, in particular, that in violation of the procedure established by the federal law on basic measures for preventing child neglect and delinquency of minors, no. on 30 september 2008 k. was released from the closed educational institution for minors and returned home.
the applicants were born in 2001 and 1967 respectively and live in bucharest. he relies on assistive devices to walk, including electric wheelchairs, mopeds and tricycles. according to the applicants, the school building was not adapted for the needs of children with disabilities and its premises remained mostly inaccessible. based on the information provided by the management of school no. the school was unable to negotiate the acquisition of a lift during the 2015/16 school year. was assigned as a support teacher for the first applicant. continued to assist the first applicant in the school year 2016/17, and on 15 september 2016 drafted a new intervention plan which was accepted by most of the teachers. the first applicant’s physicians set out recommendations for the school and other authorities regarding the child’s medical needs, emphasising the importance of regular physiotherapy and occupational therapy, including during school hours. they recommended that the child alternate periodically between sitting and standing up. it appears from the information provided by the government that the second applicant failed to provide the school with the medical information concerning the first applicant’s needs in terms of physical recuperation. the first applicant could not receive physiotherapy in school as his mother refused to allow him to participate in any session which did not take place in the school gymnasium. she explained that she could not act as his personal assistant as she had to work for a living. 8249/3/2011), the bucharest county court (hereinafter “the county court”) partly allowed an action brought by the second applicant against various authorities concerning the manner in which they had dealt with her son’s situation. however, one refused to sign the contract as he considered the second applicant’s attitude towards him to be abusive and offensive; he explained that the second applicant had asked him to wash dishes and clean the house, tasks which had not been in his job description, and had then accused him of wanting to harm her son. the other candidates took the job on a part-time basis starting on 1 september 2015. these complaints mainly concerned the alleged lack of services for her son, both in school and outside school, and the manner in which the competent authorities handling his case had discharged their obligation to support the first applicant and to adapt the infrastructure to the needs of people with disabilities, and in particular to the first applicant’s needs. on 28 november 2016 the bailiff ordered the authorities to comply with the court order and to pay the applicants the costs of the enforcement proceedings. on 25 april 2017 the district court dismissed an objection to enforcement in which the ismb and the cmbrae also claimed that they had already complied with the court order. she was given a formal warning for refusing to leave the school premises. according to the government, during the second applicant’s stay in the police station, the first applicant remained in school, in the presence of the school nurse and a teacher on duty.
he currently lives in ilidža, sarajevo canton. in 1983 the applicant went to the then socialist federal republic of yugoslavia to pursue his studies. the group advocated the saudi-inspired wahhabi/salafi version of islam. the authorities held that he had acquired bh citizenship by means of fraudulent conduct, false information and the concealment of relevant facts. on 6 october 2008 the applicant was placed in an immigration centre on security grounds, pursuant to section 99(2)(b) of the 2008 aliens act, because it had been established that he posed a threat to national security. on 2 march 2011 and 29 november 2011, following appeals by the applicant, the ministry of security and the state court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”), respectively, upheld that decision. furthermore, the aliens service had regard to the court’s finding that the applicant’s deportation to syria would have led to a violation of article 3 of the convention and to the fact that the conditions for his deportation to a safe third country had not been met. the applicant repeatedly challenged his detention. the appeals chamber, referring to the court’s case-law, held that the applicant should have been informed of the reasons for his continued detention and of the grounds on which he was deemed to be a security risk. on 23 may 2014 the court heard the applicant and disclosed to him the open evidence, the relevant part of which reads as follows:
“imad al husin arrived [in bosnia and herzegovina] immediately after the outbreak of war ... [at the time he] was a member of the el mujahedin unit, in which he was one of the main persons in charge of logistical support. he furthermore provided a certificate issued by the bh islamic community confirming that he had been one of its members and statements given by two imams from sarajevo attesting that the applicant had never given any lectures in their respective mosques. rather, he had used abstract and general statements in an effort to downplay the importance of the information provided therein. in the meantime, on 27 may 2014 the aliens service further extended the applicant’s detention. on 2 june 2014, following an appeal by the applicant, the ministry of security upheld that decision. furthermore, their examination of the possibility to apply less strict preventive measures had involved general and abstract arguments, without any further explanation being given. at a hearing of 9 september 2014 the applicant submitted that he had contacted the authorities of the republic of turkey concerning the possibility of his moving there, but that his request had been refused on the basis of information provided by the national security agency. on 21 august and 28 november 2013 the ministry of foreign affairs informed the aliens service that yemen and oman, respectively, had refused to accept the applicant. on 27 november 2013 the ministry of foreign affairs asked kuwait, saudi arabia, bahrain, qatar and the united arab emirates to provide responses to the requests that they agree to accept the applicant. thus, each of them had five square metres of personal space. there were no facilities for conjugal visits.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in ploieşti. the fourth driver was never the subject of any investigation. on 2 august 2005 the district court prosecutor’s office declined jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office attached to the ploieşti court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal prosecutor’s office”) on account of the applicant’s status as a judge. on 28 october 2005 the applicant’s lawyer asked the court of appeal prosecutor’s office to postpone the deadline set for the applicant, inter alia, because he was unable to consult the applicant or submit evidence to the file on account of the latter’s serious medical condition. also, the applicant was responsible for causing the accident because he had been driving under the influence of alcohol and had failed to adapt his speed to the traffic conditions. the applicant appealed against the decisions of 5 december 2005 and 3 january 2006 before the ploieşti court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”). he reiterated the arguments which he had put forward to the prosecutor general. on 3 april 2007 the forensic service produced a psychiatric forensic expert report concerning the applicant. it dismissed the applicant’s request for a re-enactment of the circumstances of the accident on the grounds that such a re-enactment could be made only on a theoretical level, by producing a technical expert report which would determine the circumstances in which the traffic accident had taken place. furthermore, depending on the outcome of the forensic expert report, the police department was also instructed to produce a second version of the technical expert report assessing whether the accident could have been avoided given the applicant’s alcohol level at the time of the accident. on 21 april 2009 the laboratory for criminological reports informed the police department that, in the light of their extreme workload and the small number of experts available, the technical criminological report in respect of the applicant’s case could not be produced before 2011. on the grounds that not all the elements of an offence had been established. furthermore, according to the forensic expert report of 27 june 2005, the applicant’s injuries had been caused mainly by his car’s head-on impact with the lorry. he had been driving his car too fast at night. had not discharged his lawful duty to drive preventively. however, in the absence of evidence on file clarifying the existence or non-existence of a causal link between d.i. (a)   the conduct of the investigation 54. on 30 may 2012 the court of appeal prosecutor’s office discontinued the criminal proceedings against d.i. the applicant also brought proceedings against the company from which he was leasing his car in order to make the judgment binding on that company. the injured party could lodge such a claim either during the criminal proceedings or before the trial court, up until the day the indictment was read out in court (article 15).
the applicants, two brothers, were born in 1970 and 1975 and are currently serving prison sentences in sol-iletsk, orenburg region. on 23 july 2002 the supreme court of russia quashed that judgment on appeal and remitted the case for fresh consideration. on 17 january 2003 the regional court found the applicants guilty of several counts of murder and sentenced them to life imprisonment. on an unspecified date the second applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of 17 january 2003. according to the second applicant, on that date he also learnt that his appeal of 23 september 2002 had not been included in the case file and that it would not be considered. had been a lay judge in three criminal trials on 8 october, 21 november and 30 december 2002. on 28 august 2007 the second applicant requested that the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the decision of 13 september 2002 be restored due to the disappearance of the hard copy of his original complaint. on 21 september 2007 the trial court refused the second applicant’s request, noting that it was no longer possible to establish whether he had lodged the appeal in question in due time or at all. according to the second applicant, on 26 march 2009 he sent an application to the court via the administration of the correctional colony. on 11 december 2009 the registry of the court received the initial letter sent by the second applicant through the administration of the correctional colony on 19 november 2009. it had been opened by the administration of the correctional colony for the purpose of censoring. the second applicant received the documents and blank paper. the crossword puzzles were transferred for censorship. on 8 december 2011 the second applicant’s complaints were forwarded to the government for further observations. on 15 may 2006 the deputy head of the administration decided to terminate an inquiry into a complaint of ill-treatment lodged by the second applicant. the second applicant] was urged to stop his resistance; however he continued. on 16 november 2010 the second applicant sought to institute criminal proceedings in respect of his alleged ill-treatment on 15 may 2006 and 27 december 2007. the investigator’s decision further reads as follows:
“the authorities conducting the preliminary inquiry are sceptical about [the second applicant’s] allegations, since he tries to conceal his discontent with the regime of the correctional colony and complains about the measures taken by the administration of the colony as being unlawful. the parties did not inform the court about the outcome of the proceedings. according to the second applicant, on 10 august 2009 and in september 2009 he was blindfolded, suspended by his arms and subjected to electric shocks by the guards of the correctional colony.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1950, 2001 and 2007 respectively, and live in călărași. in line with the first applicant’s express wishes, the other applicants remained in her care even after she retired. she also claimed the reimbursement of expenses relating to her regular medical examinations and laboratory tests and argued that for the previous three years the second applicant had not been given the housing, placement and food allowances to which he had been entitled. also, a child was entitled to a food allowance, which had to be paid to the person feeding the child. she argued that a week earlier the first-instance court had allowed a trade union’s claims against her employer for overtime pay for work done during weekends and public holidays. by a final judgment of 12 may 2009 the bucharest court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) dismissed the first applicant’s appeal on points of fact and law. it held that she could not claim overtime pay, given the special nature of her work contract, and given that her job required her to provide constant care to the children. consequently, she had lodged a new claim with the court, given that her employer had granted this bonus to public servants and courts across the country had allowed similar claims lodged by foster parents. on 24 november 2009 the county court allowed the first applicant’s claims in part. there is no evidence in the file that the first applicant appealed on points of fact and law against the judgment of 24 november 2009. it held that, in accordance with the provisions of the code and the relevant collective agreement concerning her employer, all the employees of that office, including her, were entitled to a supplementary payment for work done during weekends and public holidays for the period 2008-2010. lastly, the court dismissed the călăraşi dgaspc’s arguments that her claims had already been examined in the final judgments of 12 may and 24 november 2009 (see paragraphs 13 and 16 above). the călăraşi dgaspc appealed against the judgment on points of fact and law. on 3 november 2011 the county court allowed the first applicant’s claims. also, according to the available evidence, the applicant had taken her annual leave in may and june and had been paid for it. it could not be argued that she had not taken her annual leave in may 2011 because she had spent it in the company of her foster child. by a final judgment of 15 december 2011 the court of appeal allowed the călăraşi dgaspc’s appeal in part. the first applicant submitted to the court three judgments delivered by three different courts of appeal. subsequently, she acknowledged on 31 july 2013 that the authorities had enforced all the judgments. on 4 january and 9 february 2017 the călăraşi dgaspc informed the government that the amount corresponding to the first applicant’s unspent annual leave for the period 2008-2010 had been paid to her in full in five instalments between january 2013 and june 2016.
the applicant company has its registered office in istanbul. blasco is the successor of a soviet state-owned company which until the late 1980s was one the largest shipping companies in the world and operated hundreds of commercial vessels. in august 1997 the applicant company also entered into a bareboat charter agreement with blasco for one of its ships. on 2 december 1997 and 22 october 1998 the applicant company and blasco signed agreements under which blasco acknowledged owing certain debts to the applicant company related to services provided to blasco’s vessels amounting to 3,466,754.93 united states dollars (usd). on 25 december 1998 bankruptcy proceedings were initiated in respect of blasco. it appears that they were then reinitiated and discontinued at some point in 2001. in order to show the latter, the applicant company would need to provide the original documents showing the basis on which the debts had arisen. the case was remitted to the commercial court. on 24 february 2006 the commercial court rejected the applicant company’s claims as insufficiently substantiated. on the same day the court ordered the initiation of a financial rehabilitation procedure in respect of blasco under a court-appointed receiver. on 12 august 2008 the court of appeal upheld the commercial court’s ruling of 24 february 2006 concerning the applicant company’s claims. in that letter the court president pointed out that the president’s earlier instruction to the cabinet of ministers concerning the need to take steps to improve the blasco situation had not been complied with and that the court had been unable to obtain information from the authorities about the debtor’s assets for more than seven years. on 21 january 2009 the hcc allowed the applicant company’s appeal in part, quashed the court of appeal’s decision of 12 august 2008, and remitted the case to the court of appeal on the grounds that the latter had essentially required the applicant company to comply with the requirements of domestic ukrainian law concerning record-keeping and submit documentary proof to prove its claims, whereas it should have determined the applicable law and evaluated the claims in that light. it referred to a newspaper article published in 2001. on 29 march 2013 the court of appeal’s registry received blasco’s application requesting the court to set aside its ruling of 27 october 2009 to recognise the applicant company’s claims (see paragraph 30 above) in the light of “newly discovered circumstances”. on 17 june 2013 the applicant company appealed. on 8 october 2013 the hcc dismissed the appeal and upheld the decision of 30 may 2013. the applicant company was served with the earlier decision on 12 november 2013. on 31 december 2013 the applicant company lodged an application for a review of the hcc ruling by the supreme court (see the relevant provisions of domestic law in paragraph 47 below). there were, therefore, no grounds to examine the petition by the supreme court (see paragraph 47 below for the relevant provisions of the domestic law).
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in tbilisi. on 30 may 2011 a press release was posted on the website of the ministry of the interior (“the moi”), which said that an armed group of twenty-four people had been detained in kintsvisi on 26 may 2011. according to the official record of the detention and search of the applicant, which he duly signed, the applicant was placed under arrest at 6.12 a.m. on 27 may 2011 at tbilisi police headquarters on suspicion of committing an offence under article 315 § 1 of the criminal code (conspiracy or insurrection intended to change the constitutional order of georgia by violent means). the report, which stated that he had been arrested after being questioned as a witness, also noted that he had bruises in the tailbone area, buttocks and left thigh, and haemorrhages on his left eye, right cheek and his nose. at the detention hearing, the applicant challenged the official report of his arrest and stated that he had been apprehended on 26 may in kintsvisi, rather than on 27 may 2011 in tbilisi. the applicant appealed against his pre-trial detention, maintaining his version of the circumstances surrounding the arrest. the applicant maintained that the actual time of his arrest was different from the time of the arrest indicated in the official record. the decision was served on the applicant on 9 june 2011. on 1 june 2011 the defence counsel of the applicant requested, at their own expense, a forensic medical examination of the applicant. by a decision of 12 march 2012 the supreme court of georgia rejected an appeal by the applicant on points of law as inadmissible. on admission he underwent a visual examination which confirmed bruises and haemorrhages on his body and face (see paragraphs 9-10 above). he claimed that he had been punched in the face by one of the officers of the special forces in kintsvisi. one of them, according to the applicant, had been wearing a mask. during 2012 the office of the public defender of georgia, acting at the request of the applicant, sent three requests for information to the office of the chief prosecutor of georgia concerning the investigation into the alleged ill-treatment of the applicant. on 18 december 2012 the applicant was questioned again. the investigator also interviewed the staff of the local emergency service. on 13 june 2016 the investigator in charge obtained a medical record from tbilisi no. in may 2018 twelve co-defendants of the applicant were questioned again. 8 prison, and of clerics from the kintsvisi monastery. according to the case-file the proceedings are still pending.
the applicants purchased licences for gambling operations for the periods indicated in the appendix. on 23 december 2008 the cabinet of ministers introduced a bill in parliament on regulation of gambling operations. it relied on various provisions of domestic law. neither the prohibition law nor the budget provided for any compensation. it repeated the other arguments it had raised in the first appeal. the law in question had not been declared unconstitutional by the constitutional court. she relied on the provisions of domestic law incorporating the convention and the court’s case-law and the primacy of the former (see paragraphs 74 and 76 below) and argued that the prohibition law, by revoking her licence, had terminated her property rights within the meaning of the legislative takings clause. it cited domestic provisions concerning the obligations of the public authorities to compensate for damage caused by their unlawful conduct (see, in particular, paragraph 71 below), and stated that parliament’s constitutional role was to enact laws, that it had acted within those powers in adopting the prohibition law and that that law did not provide for the payment of any compensation to former licence holders. she argued that no law conferred power on the cabinet of ministers and the ministry of finance to suspend a licence. similar claims lodged by three other companies were joined to the proceedings. on 31 may 2012 the kyiv administrative court of appeal allowed appeals by the cabinet of ministers and the ministry of finance and quashed the first-instance court’s judgment. one of the other claimant companies lodged an appeal on points of law, which the applicant joined. on 2 july 2013 the zakarpattya circuit administrative court rejected her claim, holding that, because the cabinet of ministers had powers to give instructions to ministries (see paragraph 62 below) and the ministries had the power to issue their own orders, the ministry, in issuing the impugned order which complied with the cabinet of ministers’ instructions, had acted within its powers. on 10 november 2008 the applicant company paid the full price for a five-year licence to the state treasury and on 14 november 2008 it obtained its licence, valid from 28 october 2008 to 27 october 2013. it relied on the provisions concerning reimbursement of erroneous or excess payments to the treasury and the provisions of the code of administrative justice that required the courts to give judgment even in the absence of relevant legislation (see paragraphs 76 and 77 below). article 8 of the constitution provides that the provisions of the constitution have direct effect and guarantees the right to apply to the courts relying directly on the constitution. section 4 of the law contains transitional provisions. article 1173 of the code requires the public authorities to compensate for damage caused by unlawful decisions, actions or inaction of such authorities. article 1175 of the code provides for compensation for the adoption of a legislative document (нормативно-правового акта) if that document is subsequently declared unlawful and rescinded. m for others); (iv) special certification for gambling equipment and software.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1982 and live in khust and kharkiv respectively. the first applicant lodged a claim against a social security authority, seeking an increase in the amount of child allowance she was receiving. a first-instance court allowed her claim in part. that judgment was upheld on appeal but the social security authority lodged a further appeal on points of law. on 6 november 2012 the higher administrative court (“the hac”), having examined the appeal, quashed the lower courts’ judgments and dismissed the applicant’s claim. the second applicant moved from the territory of the republic of moldova controlled by the so‑called “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) (see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no. 48787/99, echr 2004‑vii) to ukraine to take up permanent residence. under domestic law, repatriating ukrainians were entitled to the tax-free and duty-free import of their foreign-registered vehicles. however, the customs office refused to apply this tax exemption in the applicant’s case on the grounds that the car had not been registered by the appropriate authorities of the republic of moldova. she challenged this refusal before the administrative courts. a first-instance court allowed her claim and ordered the customs office to clear her car through customs. that judgment was upheld on appeal but the customs office lodged a further appeal on points of law. on 4 april 2013 the hac allowed the appeal, quashed the lower courts’ decisions and dismissed the applicant’s claim. both applicants alleged that the hac, contrary to domestic law (see paragraph 11 below), had not sent them copies of the appeals lodged in their cases or informed them of the pending appeals by any other means, thus depriving them of an opportunity to respond. they alleged that they had only learned of the appeal proceedings when they had been served with the hac’s final decisions quashing the lower courts’ decisions in their favour. as worded at the relevant time, articles 214 and 215 of the 2005 code of administrative justice provided that a hac judge-rapporteur would decide, having considered an appeal, whether to initiate proceedings to review the lower courts’ decisions on points of law. if the judge decided to initiate such proceedings, he or she was required to inform the parties of that decision and serve a copy of the appeal on the opposing party with a time-limit for responding. the relevant provisions of the code concerning the procedure for serving court documents are summarised in lazarenko and others v. ukraine (nos. 70329/12 and 5 others, § 15, 27 june 2017).
the applicant company, an editorial and publishing house registered in moscow, edits and publishes a national newspaper with a circulation of 500,000, the novaya gazeta (“the newspaper”). it is not known for certain how long the men remained alive after the explosions. the prosecutors found that there had been minor technical defects in the kursk and certain omissions in the organisation and conduct of the naval exercise and the rescue operation. on 4 january 2003 his complaint was dismissed. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal. it further alleged that there were reasons to believe that the investigators had made the conclusion about the absence of a causal link between the naval officers’ omissions and the death of the kursk crew members under pressure. the chief forensic expert of the russian ministry of defence, had been particularly harsh, as he had publicly accused b.k. presided over the panel of medical experts (which means that he was responsible for collating all the medical expert opinions in the case file). ... the article then continued:
“this is the aim pursued by v.k. uses bizarre wording: ‘died no later than four and a half to eight hours after the explosion[2] in the kursk’. the fire in the ninth compartment ... started a considerable time after the explosion and the sinking of the kursk. did is called distortion of the facts («подтасовка фактов»). brought defamation claims against the applicants before the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”). had performed a medical expert examination and had found that the submarine crew had died within four and a half to eight hours of the explosion of the submarine. therefore, they were not damaging to his honour, dignity or business reputation. 11 of the plenary supreme court (see paragraph 30 below), it emphasised that in a defamation case the only thing that a claimant had to prove was the fact that there had been dissemination of an impugned statement by a respondent. accordingly, the contested statements contain allegations of breaches of laws by v.k. ... and tarnish his honour, dignity and business reputation. in the statement of appeal, the respondent [company] claims that the journalist expressed her opinion, which was based on the criminal case material, and that civil law does not hold a journalist liable for the expression of a subjective opinion. on 15 august 2005 the district court issued writs of execution against the applicants in v.k.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in orhei. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. based on that decision, on 3 april 1997 the same office issued the applicant’s brother (c.) title to 0.0569 hectares of land. after his death the applicant took possession of the land and used continuously for her own needs. on 10 september 1999 the territorial cadastre office registered the plot of land as belonging to c. 9. c. continued to be mentioned as the owner of the relevant plot of land. it claimed that the title had been issued in error since c. had moved to an apartment provided by the town and was no longer eligible to obtain such land. following this relocation, the cadastre office was supposed to remove c.’s title from the list, which it had failed to do. the two court actions were joined by the court on 6 november 2006. it noted, inter alia, that the applicant had raised the issue of expiry of the three-year limitation period and added that under article 78 of the old civil code (see paragraph 15 below), the court had to apply the rules concerning the limitation period regardless of the parties’ arguments. on 4 october 2007 the chișinău court of appeal overturned that judgment, accepting the appeal lodged by the mayor’s office. moreover, the court rejected the applicant’s claim for extending the time-limit for accepting her brother’s inheritance, finding that she had missed it without a valid reason. the applicant submitted documents showing that she had paid various taxes for the land in question over the years. mandatory application of the limitation period. in order to inherit, the heir must accept the inheritance. ... it shall be considered that the heir has accepted the inheritance if he/she took actual possession or administration of inheritance assets ...” 16. the relevant provisions of the civil code (in force from 12 june 2003) read as follows:
“article 7. (1)  the civil law has no retroactive effect. ...
(6)  the provisions of the new law concerning limitation periods ... shall apply to limitation periods which started before the date of entry into force of the new law, but did not end before that date. ... the start, the suspension and the interruption of the limitation period shall be determined under the old law for the period before the entry into force of the new law.
following judicial proceedings which ended with a final judgment of the bălţi court of appeal of 8 december 2009, the applicant company obtained a final ruling obliging the cadastral authority to register immovable property privatised by it in 1999 and in 2004 in its name. on an unspecified date the defendant in the proceedings lodged a request for a review of the judgment of 8 december 2009, seeking its annulment on the grounds that in a technical report dated 25 may 2009 it had been stated that the immovable property in question did not qualify as immovable property (“the review request”). on 24 august 2010 the bălţi court of appeal dismissed the review request on the grounds that the information contained in the technical report of 25 may 2009 did not qualify as new and relevant information which could not have been obtained before the delivery of the final judgment in the case. on 22 december 2010 the supreme court quashed the above judgment and ordered a re-examination of the review request. on 16 november 2011 the chişinău court of appeal re-examined the review request and allowed it. the court relied on grounds other than those relied upon by the defendant in framing the request. in particular, the court relied on a government decision from 2005, in accordance with which the disputed goods had been transferred to the defendant’s control. the court quashed the final judgment of 8 december 2009 and ordered a fresh examination of the case. on 16 august 2012, after examining the merits of the case, the edineţ district court again found in favour of the applicant company and required the cadastral authority to register some of the immovable property privatised by the applicant company in 1999 and in 2004 in its name. the cadastral authority challenged that judgment by lodging an appeal and the proceedings are still pending.
the first applicant, mr evghenii antonov, is a russian national who was born in 1979 and lives in tiraspol. the second applicant, mrs iryna antonova, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1954 and lives in tiraspol. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows. the first applicant was arrested in tiraspol in august 2009 and accused of having in his possession a hunter’s knife and a packet of marijuana. he told her that he was being held in a dark, damp cell without basic hygiene. further complaints to the moldovan, russian and “mrt” authorities were unsuccessful. on 9 december 2009 the second applicant was able to see the first applicant during a court trial; she submitted that he looked tired and weak. the first applicant was arrested in tiraspol in december 2004 and accused of murder and arson. he was released in 2007 with an undertaking not to leave the city without permission. however, he left to work abroad and was rearrested on 13 september 2009, when he returned home. he was initially held in the pre-trial detention centre of the “mrt” ministry of internal affairs (“ivs tiraspol”), then moved to the hlinaia prison in grigoriopol. on 13 october 2009 the second applicant found out that many of the detainees in ivs tiraspol were on hunger strike in protest against abuse and inhuman conditions of detention. the osce was refused access to ivs tiraspol on 19 october 2009. in particular, on 27 october 2009 the second applicant complained to the russian embassy in moldova, which promised to officially contact the “mrt” prosecutor’s office in connection with the case. the second applicant submitted that all the food and other items which she had attempted to send to the first applicant had been rejected by the prison administration or destroyed. on 15 october 2009 mr v. ursu, a member of the consulting committee for prevention of torture in moldova, reported that on 14 october 2009 he had been informed by relatives of several persons detained in the detention centre of the “mrt” ministry of internal affairs that many detainees in that centre were on hunger strike and that they were being subjected to ill-treatment. on 16 october 2009 the second applicant found out that the riot police had entered the prison. she was unable to find out what had happened to the first applicant. the applicants have submitted several press reports concerning the hunger strike at the above-mentioned detention centre and the alleged ill-treatment of detainees. on 28 july 2010 the first applicant was found guilty by the tiraspol city court and sentenced to 4 years’ imprisonment suspended for three years.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in püspökladány. at the police station the applicant started to insult the police officers and was handcuffed again. he also issued a medical report on the applicant’s injuries. on 22 april 2010 the applicant was fined 50,000 hungarian forints (huf – approximately 180 euros (eur)) for the minor offence of failing to comply with lawful police measures. furthermore, in a judgment of 15 november 2011 the püspökladány district court found the applicant guilty of disorderly conduct, drink-driving and violence against a representative of a public authority. he was sentenced to two years and three months’ imprisonment. the applicant challenged the evidence obtained through the urine test, and the court found it established that he had consented to the use of the catheter, as evidenced by five or six witness testimonies, and he had only withdrawn his consent upon realising that the intervention was painful. on 11 march 2010 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the police officers involved in the incident, alleging that they had interrogated him by subjecting him to ill-treatment – beating him, using handcuffs and leg restraints, and forcibly taking blood samples from him and urine samples by catheterisation. by a decision of 10 january 2011 the hajdú bihar county chief public prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s complaint, endorsing the findings of the first-instance authority. according to the doctor, the applicant had been cooperative and had only turned violent at a later stage. in any event, according to professional guidelines, if a urine test could not be carried out, a blood test was sufficient. in an opinion of 4 august 2010 the board found that the use of handcuffs had been legitimate and that the ill-treatment alleged could not be established. it forwarded its opinion to the commander of the national police service. the decision established that the applicant had informed the doctor on duty that he had been unable to produce a urine sample and that he would not drink water in order to be able to do it later. he had behaved aggressively and had been uncooperative, but had nonetheless agreed to the catheterisation before witnesses by loudly screaming “do the catheterisation”, and had undressed voluntarily. he had only been restrained to prevent him from causing injuries to himself or the doctor, once the procedure had started. on 7 february 2012 the budapest regional administrative and labour court dismissed his action. if an examination was considered invasive, oral consent was not sufficient. it had been up to the doctor and not the police officers to decide on the method by which to take a sample. the applicant lodged a petition for review with the kúria, arguing that the commander of the national police service had failed to establish the facts of the case.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1976 and are detained in lipcani. in july 1999 the german police found the corpse of a moldovan national in a river near hamburg. the investigation led to a moldovan national, a.b., during questioning by the german police, a.b., who was a suspect, declared that the murder had been committed by the applicants who had beaten up the victim and strangled him. after the murder, the applicants manipulated the german family into believing that the victim had been arrested by police in another part of germany and that he needed the money. all witnesses were summoned once through the intermediary of the moldovan ministry of justice and the german authorities. the attempts to summon the witness were not repeated. on 29 december 2008 the botanica district court acquitted the applicants of murder charges that had been brought against them. the court found that the only piece of evidence presented by the prosecutor in support of the accusation against the applicants was the statements made by a.b. moreover, his statements were not totally coherent and consistent. in particular, he had stated to the german police that he had not been present when the victim’s body had been thrown into the river. however, somehow he knew that a concrete pole had been attached to the corpse. for all the above reasons the evidence was excluded from the file. however, the applicants were found guilty of fraud as a result of the fact that they had manipulated the german family with whom the victim’s money had been deposited, and had appropriated the money. ’s statements to be reliable because they had been made before an investigating judge. the applicants were sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. in a court hearing and address questions to him. had a personal interest in accusing them because he was a suspect himself. on whose evidence their convictions had been based.
the applicant, who was born in 1948, lives in corjova, a village under the formal control of moldovan authorities, but where agents of the self‑proclaimed “transdniestrian moldovan republic” (“mrt”, see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no. 48787/99, § 90, echr 2004‑vii for further details) frequently intervened during the events in question, notably by blocking the participation of the local population in elections held in moldova. on 3 june 2007 local elections were to be held in moldova, including in corjova. the applicant, who is an ambulance driver, submitted his candidature for the position of mayor of corjova. on 1 june 2007, at 11 p.m., the applicant’s ambulance was stopped by the “mrt” road militia and his documents (moldovan national identity card and driving licence) were taken away from him without any explanation. he was then arrested and placed in a detention cell. a few hours later a person came to his cell and, without presenting himself, asked him about his work and his electoral propaganda. the applicant later found out that the visitor had been a judge and that, following that discussion in the cell, the judge adopted a decision, finding him guilty of the administrative offence of unlawful electoral propaganda and sentencing him to 15 days’ administrative detention. the applicant submits that he was not allowed to contact his relatives or to find a lawyer, and was not issued with a copy of the court’s decision, which prevented any possibility of lodging an effective appeal against the decision of 2 june 2007. during his detention the applicant was placed in a cell which, according to him was damp and cold. when the applicant’s relatives, alerted by his absence, contacted the local authorities in order to find out about his fate, they were informed of the applicant’s detention. however, their requests to transmit food to him were allegedly rejected. on 17 june 2007 the applicant was released from detention and he was issued with a copy of the decision of 2 june 2007. the time-limit for lodging an appeal had already expired by that time. upon release, he was allegedly coughing and was diagnosed with chronic acute bronchitis. he also claims that his eyesight worsened considerably. in the meantime, on 6 june 2007, the applicant complained to the moldovan prosecutor’s office of his unlawful detention. based on this complaint, a criminal investigation was initiated on 12 june 2007, the applicant and witnesses were subsequently heard. three high-ranking “mrt” officers were charged and were declared wanted persons. however, on 4 august 2010 the investigation was suspended due to the fact that the three accused were hiding from it in the “mrt”.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in grimăncăuți. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant is a farmer who grows and sells potatoes. on 5 february 2008 he and his brother went to the varnița village, in the vicinity of the city of bender/tighina. having sold potatoes for some time in various places in varnița, with authorisation from the local administration, on 5 february 2008 at around 2.30 p.m. the applicant was approached by plain clothed officers of the “mrt” customs authority. the moldovan police arrived after the impugned event. according to the applicant, an officer of the moldovan police was present and did not interfere. the court sentenced him to three days’ detention. he was refused the right to be assisted by a lawyer when preparing for the hearing, and a court-appointed lawyer was only present at the court hearing, not assisting him in any manner. the applicant was given neither a copy of the record of his arrest prior to its examination by the court, nor a copy of the court decision of 6 february 2008. the decision was enforced immediately and the applicant served all three days until the evening of 8 february 2008, when he was released. on 15 february 2008 the applicant lodged a summary appeal against the decision of the first-instance court, noting that he would submit a full appeal once he received a copy of the decision of 6 february 2008. at his request, on 17 march 2008 he obtained a copy of that decision. the case was sent for re-examination by the lower court. the applicant was not informed of that decision. on 25 april 2008 the “mrt” supreme court accepted an extraordinary appeal lodged by the president of that court’s chair and decided that the case was to be re-examined by that court. on 6 february 2008 the applicant’s brother made a criminal complaint in the applicant’s name to various moldovan authorities, including the prosecutor general’s office, about the applicant’s unlawful arrest by officers from the “mrt”. he asked for the criminal prosecution of those responsible. on 11 february 2008 the applicant sent letters to various embassies, including that of the russian federation, thanking them for their intervention into the case by bringing the matter before the joint control commission.[1] following this alleged intervention the applicant’s car and merchandise were returned to him. the parties did not inform the court of any subsequent developments in that regard.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in orsk. noticed bruises under the applicant’s eye and on a lip. during the conversation, which was respectful, the applicant decided to confess because, as he said, he would be unable to live with a heavy heart. had angered him, and that he had twice punched him on the nose. recorded the confession (явка с повинной). this time he added that after he had punched sh., the investigator told the applicant’s partner about the detention. the beatings left him bleeding with a burst eardrum, a black eye, split lips, and several chipped teeth. once in front of the investigator, the applicant complained to him of the torture. the applicant told the doctor that he and sh. had struck each other in the face and that the police had tortured him. at 12–1 p.m. on 24 december 2004, the applicant (aided by counsel) re-appeared before investigator po. both times the applicant declined to testify and made no other remarks. asked the head of the unit in which the applicant’s alleged assailants served to hold an internal inquiry (служебная проверка). interviewed the applicant (assisted by counsel) and investigator po. based on the gathered evidence, he concluded that the applicant had been injured before he had been brought to sovietsky police station, and thus the officers had no case to answer. on 26 april 2005 the oktyabriskiy district court of orsk found the applicant guilty of murder and theft. to death while they had been drinking in sh. at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. the applicant appealed, pleading that he himself would be prepared to undergo a lie-detector test to prove his accusations, that the court had blindly sided with the operatives, that in 2006 or 2007 u. had been convicted for torturing others and of forging official records, and that the court had ignored the case-law of the strasbourg court.
the applicants were born in 1965, 1977 and 1976 respectively. the third applicant lives in shilka in the zabaykalskiy region. the judgment was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of russia on 19 june 2003. the first applicant did not allege in his appeal arguments that the composition of the first-instance court had been unlawful. his sentence was left essentially unchanged. thereafter, in an attempt to contest the lawfulness of his conviction on the above-mentioned grounds, he requested that the prosecutor’s office of the republic of buryatiya institute supervisory review proceedings with a view to setting aside the judgment of 21 may 2002. by a judgment of 5 december 2003 the leninskiy district court of krasnoyarsk convicted the second applicant of murder and destruction of property and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment to be served in a correctional colony with a strict regime. the first applicant was placed in up-288/t prison in minusinsk, where it appears he remains to date. the screenshots show that in both cells there was a cctv camera installed above the door, at ceiling level, in such a manner that the entire cell was clearly visible, including the bed. between 22 may 2007 and 24 may 2010 the second applicant also served a sentence in up-288/t prison. according to him, his cell was under constant surveillance by prison guards by a cctv camera installed inside the cell. the third applicant was placed in cell no. the cell was under permanent surveillance by a cctv camera operated by female guards. at a hearing a representative of the detention centre authorities conceded that the duty officers who performed video surveillance were women, but argued that they were merely performing their professional duties. in a judgment of 5 july 2013 the district court dismissed the third applicant’s complaint. it found it established that the third applicant’s cell and all the other cells in pre-trial detention centre iz-1 were equipped with cctv cameras located under the ceiling for the purposes of surveillance of detainees. 204-dsp of 3 november 2005 (see paragraph 36 below). in that connection, the court noted that no evidence had been submitted to it to show that the officers of pre-trial detention centre iz-1 had breached or acted outside the scope of their professional duties. the district court also pointed out that decision no. in the district court’s view, such use thus pursued constitutional aims and could not be regarded as a disproportionate restriction of the third applicant’s rights.
