the applicant is a journalist for dn.no, a norwegian internet-based version of the newspaper dagens næringsliv (“dn”), published by the company dn nye medier as. on 23 june 2010 mr x was indicted for market manipulation and insider trading under the 1997 act on the trade of financial assets (verdipapirhandelloven). the applicant was questioned by the police on 19 june 2008. the prosecutor requested that the court impose on the applicant an order to testify. by a decision of 15 february 2011, the city court held that the applicant had a duty to give evidence about her contacts with mr x in relation to the letter of 24 august 2007 from attorney y to the bond trustee company. as to the scope of that duty, the city court held:“the obligation to make a statement is, however, limited to the contact with the defendant as a source and not her communication with possible other unknown sources with whom she has been in contact and who may be protected by the protection of sources.” on 28 march 2011 mr x appealed to the borgarting high court (lagmannsrett) against the city court’s assessment of the evidence and application of the law in relation to the issue of guilt, its procedure and the sentence (see paragraphs 34-36 below). the situation under review did not concern the disclosure of sources but rather whether the person’s role had become known by other means. however, these considerations did not apply where the source had confirmed his or her participation. against this background, one could safely assume that no violation of the convention would arise where a source had come forward and the obligation of the witness to give evidence had been expressly limited so as not to include questions that might lead to other sources being revealed. if the journalist was willing to reveal the source, the source could not prevent it. a situation where someone claimed to be the source ought to be considered in the same way as where the source consented to disclosure of his or her identity. in 2011 the un human rights committee adopted general comment no. r (2000) 7 on the right of journalists not to disclose their sources of information, adopted by the committee of ministers of the council of europe on 8 march 2000. 64752/01, §§ 43-44, 22 november 2007, inter alia:“principle 3 (limits to the right of non-disclosure)a.  the right of journalists not to disclose information identifying a source must not be subject to other restrictions than those mentioned in article 10, paragraph 2 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in odesa. in march 2001 the owner of company y. changed. it appears that the applicant was not present. eleven of the fifteen documents listed in the warrant were seized. the seizure report did not contain any information as to whether it had been handed to any person occupying the premises. on 15 october 2001 the seizure warrant of 8 october 2001 was served on the applicant. on 22 october 2001 the investigator decided that a forensic expert examination of the signatures on the contract of 12 january 1999 was required in order to establish their real date. on 7 november 2001 the odesa prymorskyy district court (“the prymorskyy court”) ordered a search of the applicant’s flat, which was also company v.’s office, with a view to collecting samples of his handwriting and signatures. that decision was not amenable to appeal. on the following day the search took place in the applicant’s flat in his presence and resulted in a seizure of eleven documents. on 20 august 2002 the prosecutor discontinued the proceedings for the absence of unequivocal evidence of a criminal offence. on 28 august 2002 the applicant brought proceedings against the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office claiming compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage allegedly caused by its unlawful actions. the case file does not contain a copy of that decision. he further submitted that, in ordering the seizure of documents, no differentiation had been made between the company’s premises and his home. on 11 september 2003 the odesa regional court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in smědčice. on 9 november 2006 the applicant requested a building permit for temporary stables for horses. on 6 january 2011 the rokycany planning office (stavební úřad) dismissed his request and on 26 may 2011 the plzeň regional office (krajský úřad) upheld that decision. on 29 march 2013 the plzeň regional court (krajský soud) dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant against the decision of the plzeň regional office. on 31 july 2013 the supreme administrative court (nejvyšší správní soud) dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant. the decision was served on the applicant on 28 august 2013. on 29 october 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint (ústavní stížnost). on 31 march 2014 the constitutional court (ústavní soud) rejected the applicant’s appeal as being lodged out of time. it held that as the supreme administrative court’s decision had been served on him on 28 august 2013, the last day of the two-month time-limit for lodging a constitutional appeal was 28 october 2013. on 8 april 2014 the applicant wrote to the constitutional court urging it to set aside its decision. he argued that as 28 october 2013 had been a national holiday, domestic procedural rules provided that the last day for lodging his appeal had been the following day, namely 29 october 2013. by a letter of 11 april 2014 the registrar (generální sekretář) of the constitutional court acknowledged that the judge-rapporteur had undoubtedly overlooked the fact that the time-limit had been complied with. however, as the constitutional court did not have the power to set aside its own decision, he advised the applicant to lodge an application with the european court of human rights.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in kyiv. at the time of the events he was the director of a private company. in august 2002 criminal proceedings were instituted against the applicant on suspicion of tax evasion and forgery in office. subsequently, the tax-evasion charge was dropped. more specifically, instead of applying a straight-line depreciation method in respect of the company’s intangible assets, the applicant calculated their depreciation costs as the difference between the company’s gross revenues and expenses. the applicant was sentenced to one year’s restriction of liberty (namely detention in a semi-open penal institution by the place of his residence) with a ban on holding administrative posts for one year. the sentence was suspended on probation for one year. the applicant was under an undertaking not to leave the town until the judgment became final. he submitted that the activity of the company had been subject to numerous tax inspections, which had not found any violations of the tax legislation. he therefore contended that he had not done anything criminal and that that fact had not received due attention of the first-instance court. furthermore, the applicant considered that the expert questioned in the trial did not have adequate qualification. accordingly, the applicant requested the appellate court to quash the first‑instance court’s judgment and to pronounce a new one, acquitting him for the lack of the constituent elements of a crime in his actions. according to the applicant, they were unaware of its existence. on 23 january 2007 the supreme court, in written proceedings, upheld the decisions of the lower courts. referring to the case-file materials, it noted that the first-instance court had informed the applicant and his lawyer about the scheduled appellate hearing, without further details.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in staro oryahovo. they signalled for him to pull over, but instead of complying he sped away. he only stopped when his car reached a field and could not go further. according to the applicant, one of the officers kicked him in the left leg and then pushed him violently to the ground as he was trying to get out of his vehicle. the applicant fell on his back and then three officers continued to kick him. according to the police officers, the applicant had jumped out of his car after it had come to a halt and had started running through the field in an attempt to escape. according to written statements made during the criminal proceedings by several police officers present at the police station when the applicant was taken there, he told everyone present at the time that his clothes were muddy because he had tripped and fallen, which was also why he had a limp. as well as repeating the account of the two arresting officers, he stated that he personally had seen the applicant at the station and that the applicant had told him that he had fallen while running and that his back was hurting. the report indicated that in a conversation with the applicant conducted during that visit, the latter had told the officer that he could not remember the events in detail, but that he was certain that after the car chase two police officers had beaten and then handcuffed him before taking him to the police station. in addition to the description above (see paragraph 9), the officers stated that once the applicant had been handcuffed and put inside the police car, he had leaned on one of them and moaned. when asked if he had a problem and wished to be taken to a medical centre, he had refused and said, “it’s nothing”. at the police station the applicant had refused to be tested for alcohol or to sign the arrest report. a number of investigative steps were carried out. a forensic medical expert was appointed on 30 may 2014 to establish the nature of the injuries sustained by the applicant and the type of instrument used. the second-instance court, the varna regional court, upheld those findings in a final decision on 9 january 2015.
the applicant was born in 1983 and is currently in detention in rzeszów. on 15 december 2008 the lublin regional court granted the request. on 14 september 2009 the chełm prison penitentiary commission (“the commission”) classified the applicant as a “dangerous detainee”. it also made reference to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, according to which the applicant had destroyed some objects in the penitentiary unit and had behaved in an aggressive and unpredictable manner. the lublin remand centre penitentiary commission again based its decision on the fact that the applicant had ill-treated another prisoner. it also referred to the request for an extension of the regime made by the director of the remand centre, who relied on the fact that in february 2013 the applicant had been punished for destroying some objects in the penitentiary unit and that his behavior was still unpredictable. the applicant appealed, but the latter decision was upheld by the lublin regional court on 30 december 2013. he had also broken a support of his bed and used vulgar language. he had committed a further unspecified disciplinary offence on 21 june 2013. the applicant had to wear handcuffs whenever he was outside his cell, including for appearances in court. the windows were covered by a plastic blind which limited access to daylight and fresh air in the cells. the applicant submitted that he had had the boiler for six months and that it had then been taken away. he was allowed to have a shower once a week. he lodged a complaint about this with the lublin regional inspectorate of the prison service. according to the applicant, he had to wear the joined shackles in the rest of the prison, including when he was going to attend visits by members of his family.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in rīga. from the beginning of 1997 she also fulfilled the duties of a cashier and she was fully responsible for any shortfall in the material assets (materiālās vērtības) entrusted to her. internal and external audits were carried out and it was discovered that certain data in the company’s cash registers had been manipulated. she had handed the cash over to the deputy head. her request to be represented by the lawyer was refused – she was told that her status was that of a witness and that witnesses were not entitled to legal assistance. another audit had to be commissioned and more witnesses had to be questioned. a preventive measure – a prohibition on her changing her place of residence, which she had to acknowledge by giving her signature (paraksts par dzīves vietas nemainīšanu) – was imposed on her. on 27 january, 3 february, 26 may and 5 september 2005 the applicant was questioned as an accused person. some requests for further investigative measures were granted and some were refused. on 23 october 2006 the first hearing was held. she agreed that she had annulled three cash transactions and made three cash withdrawals in the amount of lvl 1,228 (approximately eur 1,747), but stated that she had done so at the request of the chief accountant and the deputy head of the company with a view to paying out salaries. the court did not rely on the applicant’s statements made during the pre-trial investigation. in setting the sentence the court took into account her state of health, the fact that she had partly compensated the company for the damage in question, and the fact that she had committed the crime nine years previously and that since then she had not committed any other crimes. the applicant lodged an appeal on 2 december 2006. on 17 august 2007 the criminal chamber of the supreme court (augstākās tiesas krimināllietu tiesu palāta) quashed the applicant’s conviction for lack of evidence in respect of five episodes of misappropriation of property.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is currently detained in jēkabpils prison. on an unspecified date his disability was re-categorised as category 2 (medium level of disability). on 23 december 2011 the applicant was transferred to brasa prison. 303 (from 26 february to 30 october 2013). he had been in social isolation and had not received any special assistance. period of detentiontotal number of inmatesoverall surface area in sq. as regards out-of-cell activities, the government indicated that while being held in the medium regime – in cells nos. that window had been fitted with bars and had been placed in a wall (adjacent to a corridor) facing another window (in the corridor). this cell had had three fluorescent lamps, including one night lamp located above the door. overall, inmates in brasa prison had had access to a psychologist, but the applicant had never availed himself of this possibility. in 2013 and 2014 the prison medical staff had organised an outpatient medical examination (in relation to tuberculosis) and a consultation by an ophthalmologist to obtain glasses. it had been satisfactory, he had not had any complaints and he had gained weight while in prison. as concerns his transfer, reference was made to the decision by the prisons administration whereby a conclusion had been drawn that the administrative procedure law had not applied. on 2 april 2014 the applicant complained to the administrative courts that the prisons administration had extended the time-limit for its last reply. one of them had a similar hearing impairment.
the applicants were born in 1971, 1953 and 1976 respectively and live in bergama, i̇zmir. on 16 august 1989 the public limited company e.m. received an authorisation to begin prospecting for gold. subsequently, the company was authorised to use cyanide leaching in the gold extraction process by the ministry of energy and natural resources. on 19 october 1994 the ministry of the environment decided to issue an operating permit to the company for the ovacık gold mine. it held that those reports demonstrated the risk posed to the local ecosystem and to human health and safety by sodium cyanide use. on 1 april 1998 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of 15 october 1997. the administrative court decided to set aside the report, which, in its opinion, constituted an enforceable administrative decision giving rise to the issuing of permits. equally, it had been established that the risk connected with the accumulation of heavy elements or cyanide could persist for twenty to fifty years and was likely to infringe the right of the area’s inhabitants to a healthy environment. accordingly, it was appropriate to conclude that the decision at issue could lead to the circumvention of a final judicial decision and was incompatible with the principle of the rule of law. the company re-started mining operations on 13 april 2001. in a judgment of 27 may 2004, the i̇zmir administrative court set aside the provisional permit issued by the ministry of health on 22 december 2000 in a case brought by fourteen people, including the first applicant, ms feride genç. on 18 august 2004 referring to the decision of 23 june 2004, the i̇zmir governor’s office ordered the closure of mine. before the administrative courts, some of which are still ongoing. the gold mine was in operation until at least 2014.
yeniköy konut yapı kooperatifi, is a housing construction cooperative under turkish law operating in i̇zmir. in 1993, a third party cooperative bought a plot of land measuring 12,000 square metres and the title deed of the land was registered in its name. in 1995, construction works started on the land in question. in 2000, the forest administration initiated proceedings before the menderes civil court of first instance for the annulment of the title deed to the land, alleging that it was part of the public forest area. in the meantime, the third party cooperative had merged with the applicant cooperative and the land had been registered in the land registry in the name of the latter. on 26 december 2002 the menderes civil court of first instance ordered that 9,322 square metres of the land be registered in the name of the treasury as it was part of the public forest area. it also ordered that the buildings constructed on this part of the land be demolished. subsequently, the applicant brought a case before the menderes civil court of first instance and sought pecuniary damages from the treasury under article 1007 of the civil code which provided for the state’s responsibility for any damage resulting from the keeping of the land registry records. on 4 february 2005 the menderes civil court of first instance awarded 138,917,600,000 turkish liras (trl – approximately 81,716 euros (eur) at the time) to the applicant. on 6 july 2006 the applicant submitted a further petition to the menderes civil court of first instance and indicated that there was a decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation which was in contradiction with the decision of the fourth civil division. in this context, the applicant alleged that its case should be accepted according to that decision of the first civil division issued on 7 may 2002 and numbered e.2002/3549 k.2002/5807. on 20 october 2006 the menderes civil court of first instance followed the decision of the fourth civil division of the court of cassation and dismissed the applicant’s claim. reiterating its allegations and referring to the decision of the first civil division of the court of cassation of 7 may 2002, it repeated its compensation request. on 1 may 2007 the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the fourth civil division of the court of cassation. in their decisions, neither the menderes civil court of first instance nor the fourth civil division of the court of cassation expressed any reason about why they had reached a different conclusion from the first civil division of the court of cassation.
the applicant, who was born in 1989, lives in istanbul. on 14 january 2009 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 17 january 2009 the investigating judge at the istanbul assize court, after questioning the applicant, ordered his pre-trial detention. on 24 june 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court. the trial commenced before the istanbul assize court and the first preparatory hearing was held on 4 november 2009. in the subsequent hearings held between 17 february 2010 and 3 november 2010, the applicant appeared before the court and the judges ordered his continued detention. the applicant filed an objection against the decision of 3 november 2010. on 29 november 2010 the 12th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing, and based on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 13 february 2013 the applicant was released from detention on remand. according to the latest information in the case-file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in turkey. the following day, on 23 august 2004, he was questioned by the gendarmerie, at which time he was reminded of his rights, including the right to benefit from legal assistance. he indicated that he did not wish to be assigned a lawyer and that he would make a statement without assistance. 4959), which had come into force on 6 august 2003. on 30 december 2004, at the first hearing, the applicant gave evidence in the presence of his lawyer and accepted the contents of his police statement. he further stated that his statement had not been read back to him by the police and asked the trial court not to take it into consideration in case it had any incriminatory remarks in respect of himself or third persons in so far as they concerned participation in armed activities. when asked about his statement before the public prosecutor, the applicant essentially confirmed it, whilst insisting that he had not given any statement concerning the attacks in tunceli, a city in the east of turkey, and adding that he had signed it without reading it. at a hearing on 25 november 2005 the trial court noted that d.t. was detained in kırklareli e-type prison at the time his statement was taken. ’s testimony in person would not contribute to its assessment since his statement given before another court had been considered sufficient for a conviction. on 10 may 2006 the malatya assize court found the applicant guilty pursuant to article 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. who gave evidence as a witness before the kırklareli assize court, acting on letters of request, stated that his pre-trial statements had been correct and that he had knowledge concerning [the applicant]’s actions [under the code name “zafer”] in ovacık province and at the guard post and that he had received that information from ... ‘serhildan’. and that they had not committed any attacks together. ...although the accused [the applicant] denied any involvement in any armed activity throughout the proceedings, the statements of s.g., had sprung the trap and had placed the mines on 28 october 2003.
the applicant was born in 1989 and lives in manisa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 july 2009 the applicant was dismissed from the expert gendarmerie school due to non-compliance with disciplinary rules. on 28 july 2009 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court and requested the annulment of the decision to dismiss him. on 6 january 2010 the supreme military administrative court rejected the applicant’s case, taking into account the “secret documents” submitted by the ministry of defence. these documents were not disclosed to the applicant. on 5 may 2010 the applicant’s request for rectification was rejected by the same court.
the applicants were born in 1981 and 1966 respectively and live in ecemiş village near the town of lice, located with the administrative jurisdiction of the province of diyarbakır. the soldiers returned fire and a clash ensued which continued for a period of approximately five minutes. at that location the soldiers also found supplies of food. the soldiers continued their search to the north of the brook, and found the body of murat tekdal in karaçay hill area. the lice prosecutor and a crime scene officer arrived at the scene at 10.45 a.m. on 13 september 2008 and searched murat tekdal’s pockets, where they found his identity card and a tube of glue. they then took the body to the diyarbakır state hospital and subsequently drew up their own reports pertaining to the incident. there were also no fingerprints on the rifle. swabs were taken from murat tekdal’s hands and face and from the barrel of the hunting rifle, in order to verify the existence or otherwise of gunpowder residue. he was fingerprinted and his jacket through which the bullet had gone was sent for forensic analysis. the body was photographed and taken to the hospital. it was subsequently established by a police laboratory that there was gunpowder residue on the outside of his left hand. the headman of the applicant’s village formally identified the body as that of murat tekdal, and told the prosecutor that murat lived in ecemiş village. on 24 november 2008 the applicants sent a letter to the diyarbakır prosecutor and stated that the lice prosecutor had started an investigation into the killing of their relative, but had subsequently decided that he had no jurisdiction to continue the investigation because the deceased had been a member of a terrorist organisation. the applicants’ objection was rejected by the malatya assize court on 9 april 2010. the objection lodged by the applicants, on the other hand, concerned the killing of their relative.
the applicants alleged principally that their twenty-one relatives (spouses, children, brothers and an uncle) had been killed by state servicemen on 5 february 2000 in the novye aldy settlement on the outskirts of grozny (see appendix for details). some applicants complained that their state of health had deteriorated due to the stress and anguish which they had suffered in the aftermath of the novye aldy killings, and particularly in view of the inadequate and callous response of the authorities to their plight. 57941/00 and 2 others, 26 july 2007) in so far as the applicants claimed that their relatives had been killed by the same people and in the same circumstances as the relatives of the applicants in that case. as the documents in the court’s possession indicate, in march 2005 thirty-one families of victims of the aldy events sent a letter to the court stating their intention to apply to the court. 30538/09); in december 2013 they questioned rashid gerikhanov (no. the charges stated that on 5 february 2000 he, along with three other unidentified persons, had killed mr sultan dzhabrailov (the husband of mrs yakhita dzhabrailova, applicant in case no. in february 2006 the zavodskoy district court in grozny ruled that s.b. in may 2013 the investigators sought to obtain additional information about s.b. in april 2010 the investigation produced a list of over 170 servicemen of the st petersburg omon who had been posted in chechnya in february 2000, and asked for verification of whether one of them had a tattoo in the shape of a snake on his neck, mentioned by one of the witnesses. in may 2011 the investigator in charge informed the military prosecutor of the southern military circuit that the special operation on 5 february 2000 in the south of grozny had been under the command of colonel ye.k., others estimated the amount of pecuniary damage caused (see appendix). it does not appear that that decision was challenged. a letter informing the victims of the adjournment was dated 24 october 2008. in november 2012 the investigators compiled a table of people who had been killed on 5 february 2000, indicating their places of burial, the next-of-kin granted victim status in the proceedings, and the dates of such decisions. it does not appear that the applicants were informed of any other developments, or that they sought further information from the investigating authorities.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in budapest. on 20 july 2015 a quarrel broke out between the applicant and his common-law wife, h.m. appeared at the applicant’s flat, handcuffed the applicant and took him to the orosháza police department, arriving there at about 5.10 p.m. 8. while he was handcuffed and in the room for short-term arrestees, one of the three police officers present either kicked or pushed him from behind onto the floor. he hit his face and nose, which started to bleed. the central investigation office opened an investigation into ill-treatment committed in the course of official proceedings, assault causing actual bodily harm, and grievous bodily harm. at that time he had been handcuffed and had fallen onto his face on the floor, as a consequence of which his nose had started to bleed. he had asked for help, but only when the police officers realised that he was unable to stand unaided had he been taken to hospital. he did not identify himself, despite the officers’ order. the central investigation office also questioned e.sz. confirmed what was in the police report and the other three witnesses denied any knowledge of ill-treatment having been inflicted on the applicant. the two members of the medical staff of orosháza hospital who had been present during the applicant’s treatment could not recall the event in detail but remembered that the applicant had not complained about ill‑treatment by the police officers and, although limping, was able to walk unaided to the x-ray examination room. according to the investigation office, it could not be established which injuries occurred during the police measures and whether they were caused by ill-treatment or the applicant’s own behaviour. the applicant filed a complaint against the discontinuation order. he maintained that his colleagues and supervisors, as well as the members of his household could have confirmed that he had no leg injury before the incident if they were heard as witnesses or if specific questions were put to them in this regard.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. entitled “on the kurdish intellectual” was published in vesta. on 29 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713 as he had published the article in question in vesta. in those moments, sparks of thought appeared. in earlier periods, there had only been individual and temporary developments not creating traditions. all political movements before the pkk were rebellious, devoid of political depth, tactical unity, stable path and permanence. the ideological and intellectual superficiality of these revolts and their fierce repression led to the loss of existing knowledge and to falling behind. from this point of view, through political and thoughtful analysis, while being free from the system and alienation, and bearing within it its own cultural identity based on the impoverished kurdish rustics, [the pkk] allowed the beginning of a permanent and stable political enlightenment process. ...another characteristic of the pkk movement at the beginning was that it realised that [the previous] abstract and theoretical movements had not led to a solution but deepened the problem. ...the fact that the pkk movement was based on the impoverished kurdish rustics who were intact and preserved their national identity paved the way for a start favourable for a confident, militant and revolutionary tradition. the court considered that the aforementioned passages and the article in its entirety constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk. it hence sentenced the applicant to ten months’ imprisonment and ordered him to pay a fine of 375 turkish liras (try). taking into account his good behaviour during the trial and his character, the court suspended the pronouncement of his conviction on condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması). on 22 october 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in podgorica. following the adoption of a new restitution act (zakon o povraćaju oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenju), on 28 december 2005, the applicant submitted another application to the newly established commission for restitution and compensation in berane (komisija za povraćaj oduzetih imovinskih prava i obeštećenja) requesting compensation. in 2008 all the commissions for restitution and compensation were consolidated into three regional commissions in bar, bijelo polje and podgorica. due to the location of the expropriated property, the applicant’s request was assigned to the commission with its seat in bijelo polje (hereinafter “the commission”). on 19 february 2009 the applicant sought opinion from an independent expert regarding the expropriated property. the report was submitted to the commission on 24 july 2009. on 23 october 2009 and 5 december 2013 the applicant filed complaints with the ministry of finance and the administrative court, respectively, about the appeals commission’s inactivity. on 13 october 2014 the commission ruled against the applicant. on 23 december 2014 the appeals commission upheld that decision on appeal. the applicant filed and action with the administrative court seeking redress. on 17 april 2015 the administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim as unfounded. this decision was served on the applicant on 23 april 2015. on 23 june 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on 24 july 2015 the constitutional court rejected his appeal for failure to make proper use of other available domestic remedies. according to the constitutional court, the applicant should first have made use of an additional request for the judicial review of his case (zahtjev za vanredno preispitivanje sudske odluke).
the applicant was born in 1941 and lives in the village of bajorai in vilnius region. in accordance with requests they had lodged on 28 october 1991, 10 october 1991, 22 november 1991, 8 august 1991 and 9 december 1991 respectively. on 22 january 2001 the national authorities established that part of the land was unoccupied and could have been returned to the heirs. accordingly, the applicant was asked to express his intentions regarding the form in which he wanted his ownership rights to the property to be restored. in may 2006 the vca asked the vcm to demarcate a plot of land, previously owned by the applicant’s father, for the applicant. the applicant was also informed that he was included in the list of persons waiting to have their property rights restored, and was 4,055th in line. the applicant lodged a claim with the vilnius regional administrative court and asked it to (i) annul the decisions of the authorities to restore property rights to his father’s land to third parties on the grounds that they were unlawful, (ii) award him 1,422,791 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 412,069 euros (eur)) in compensation in respect of pecuniary damage and (iii) oblige the authorities to restore his property rights to a specific plot of land. his property rights therefore had to be restored. the vca explained that the applicant had submitted the request to have his property rights restored in 2000, while the third parties had done so in 1991 (see paragraphs 6 and 7 above). the vca also stated that the applicant had not provided any evidence that the requirements of the domestic law had been breached in restoring property rights to third parties. on 10 april 2009 the vilnius regional administrative court held that the legislation in force at the time did not allow for the return of the land in natura to the applicant because he did not have any buildings on that land as property (see paragraph 24 below). on 15 march 2010 the supreme administrative court upheld the decision of the vilnius regional administrative court. the court also held that 29 october 2002 was the date when the specific location and borders of the land which the applicant asked to have returned in natura had been established. furthermore, it did not consider that the domestic authorities had acted unlawfully, which was a precondition for compensation in respect of pecuniary damage. he was asked by letter to make a decision by 1 march 2015, but it appears that he did not respond.
the applicants, whose names, dates of birth and places of residence are shown in the appendix, were all individual small shareholders of demirbank, a private bank in turkey. on different dates they purchased different amounts of turkish and german share certificates in demirbank through the german stock market. in its decision the board held that the assets of demirbank were insufficient to cover its liabilities and that the continuation of its activities would threaten the security and stability of the financial system. accordingly, demirbank’s management and control, and the privileges of its shareholders except for dividends, were transferred to the fund. the fund also confiscated all properties belonging to demirbank. on 2 february 2001, the main shareholder of demirbank, namely cıngıllı holding a.ş., brought administrative proceedings against the banking regulation and supervision agency (bankalar düzenleme ve denetleme kurumu – hereinafter “the agency”) before the ankara administrative court, seeking a ruling setting aside the decision of 6 december 2000 to transfer demirbank to the fund. the ankara administrative court found that it lacked jurisdiction, and transferred the case to the supreme administrative court. on 5 november 2004 the supreme administrative court set aside the board’s decision of 6 december 2000, holding that the takeover had been illegal. an appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the agency were rejected on 14 april 2005 and 15 december 2005 respectively. on 20 september 2001 the fund entered into an agreement with hsbc bank, and sold demirbank to the latter. accordingly, demirbank’s legal personality was extinguished and it was struck off the commercial register on 14 december 2001. an appeal and a request for rectification lodged by the fund were rejected and the decision became final on 24 february 2006. relying on the restitutio in integrum principle, the applicants argued that the judgment of the court which annulled the board’s decision dated 6 december 2000 had to be enforced and their rights as shareholders of demirbank should be reinstated. on different dates the applicants’ requests were rejected by the administrative courts and the administrative courts’ decisions were upheld by the supreme administrative court.
mr adyan (“the first applicant”) was born in 1991, while mr avetisyan, mr khachatryan and mr margaryan (“the second, third and fourth applicants”) were born in 1993. on 19 july 2011 the kotayk regional court found the second applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years and six months in prison. it must be noted that government decree no. as regards the fact that the military authorities carry out supervision of labour servicemen together with the heads of the relevant institutions, the court of appeal considers that this still does not change the nature of the service performed. ...in the light of the above, the court of appeal, based on the concrete facts of the case, namely that [the first applicant] has categorically refused to be conscripted to perform alternative labour service, concludes that he has been found criminally liable and sentenced in a justified and fair manner for such actions, and this fact does not contradict ... the case-law of the european court regarding article 9 of the convention.” within the meaning of this act alternative service is the service that replaces compulsory fixed-term military service. it does not involve the bearing, keeping, maintenance and use of arms, and is performed in both military and civilian institutions. the alternative labour serviceman may not be appointed to managerial posts or be involved in other activities during his service. social security cover for alternative servicemen and their family members“1. on 2 may 2013 a number of amendments to the act were passed. on 1 august 2013 the decree was amended and made applicable only to alternative military servicemen. in his 2008 annual report, the human rights defender noted:“the draftees who belong to the jehovah’s witnesses explain their refusal to sign up for alternative labour service by the fact that the service is managed and supervised by divisions of the ... ministry of defence. its duration shall, in comparison to that of military service, remain within reasonable limits”. ecri has further been informed that directors of institutions (which include hospitals) where conscientious objectors carry out their duty receive their instructions about the conditions and modalities of their service from the military. moreover, conscientious objectors are sent to military hospitals for medical treatment, they are largely confined to their place of service and required to wear military uniform.
the applications in the present case concern prolonged non‑enforcement of domestic final judicial decisions. 1093/02, 29 november 2005, kucherenko v. ukraine, no. as a result of an increasing number of applications concerning prolonged non-enforcement of domestic decisions in ukraine, the court decided to have recourse to the pilot judgment procedure and selected the case of yuriy nikolayevich ivanov v. ukraine (see paragraph 8 above) as representative of this problem. on 6 september 2011 the government’s second request for an extension of the time-limit was refused. on 3 february 2015 the court gave notice to the ukrainian government of filipov and 3 other applications (no. in accordance with the court’s decision to resume examination of pending cases (see paragraphs 23-24 above), follow-up applications were communicated to the government in groups. as regards pecuniary damage, it also held that “the respondent state has an outstanding obligation to enforce the judgments which remain enforceable” (see, among other authorities, pysarskyy and others v. ukraine [committee], no. following the chamber’s relinquishment of jurisdiction in favour of the grand chamber in the present applications (see paragraph 5 above), the government were informed that the court would not deliver further judgments in the ivanov-type cases pending the outcome of the proceedings before the grand chamber. according to the statistical information in the court’s possession on the date of delivery of the present judgment, there are 12,143 ivanov-type cases pending before the court, 7,641 of which have already been communicated to the government. on 10 august 2009 the state bailiffs service of the zhytomyr regional department of justice instituted enforcement proceedings. relying on article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. this decision was challenged by the applicant. the judgment was not appealed against and became final on 4 february 2008. the same day the court issued a writ of execution. on 22 september 2008 the dnipropetrovsk court amended the procedure for enforcement of the judgment of 13 december 2007 and ordered the state enterprise to pay the applicant company compensation.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in benevento. an argument broke out between the applicant and the officers. as the officers did not have the necessary equipment to perform a breathalyser test, they requested the assistance of the road police (polizia stradale). the officers reported that they had smelt alcohol on her breath and that she had been unsteady on her feet. that had caused her to tremble and had meant she could not keep the breathalyser tube in her mouth. the applicant started screaming loudly and the officer removed the handcuffs in a violent manner. he then warned her not to cause further trouble and threatened her. according to the report of the officer on duty, the applicant complained that she had been assaulted by benevento municipal police officers and that her finger had been fractured. the ambulance arrived at 8.30 p.m. and the applicant was examined by the ambulance medics. on 27 february 2014 the applicant lodged an objection against the prosecutor’s request to discontinue the proceedings. it stated that the victim’s allegations had not been corroborated by evidence and that further investigative measures, as requested by the victim, would have “no influence whatsoever”. the applicant was also charged with causing bodily harm to a police officer. on an unspecified date, the public prosecutor and the applicant reached a plea agreement with respect to the offence of bodily harm and requested that the judge proceed with the imposition of a sentence (applicazione della pena su richiesta delle parti). on 3 april 2013 the applicant returned to the emergency department. the doctor recommended surgery to treat the fracture.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in batumi. he was a judge at the khulo district court. on 18 november 2004 a panel of the disciplinary council of judges (hereinafter, “the panel”), composed of mr k.k. ( the president of the panel and rapporteur), mr g.ch., according to the transcript of the hearing, the applicant admitted to the act he had been accused of. describing the mistake at issue as unacceptable, the panel decided, despite his lack of prior disciplinary sanctions and his good professional reputation, to remove the applicant from judicial office. by a decision of 27 january 2005, the disciplinary council unanimously upheld the panel’s decision of 18 november 2004 in its entirety. the applicant appealed on points of law to the supreme court of georgia. on 4 august 2005 the disciplinary council, composed of six members, including three members, mr k.k. ( mr i.k, who had sat at the first hearing, re-considered the applicant’s case; another member of the disciplinary council who participated in the examination of the applicant’s case was ms n.k. during the oral hearing, the applicant challenged the above-mentioned three members of the bench – mr k.k., and mr i.k – on the ground that they had considered his case when it had come before the panel on 18 november 2004. after re-considering all the factual circumstances of the case, the disciplinary council found, in its decision of 4 august 2005, that the applicant had committed “a manifest breach of the law” and upheld the panel’s decision of 18 november 2004 in its entirety. he also complained about his request for their withdrawal being rejected. moreover, in the court’s opinion, the fact that the persons concerned had previously participated in the examination of the case was not in itself sufficient to prove that the disciplinary council, in its ruling on 4 august 2005, had not been impartial.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kraljevo. between june 2003 and december 2004 the applicant, as an entrepreneur, was providing heating installation services to ad fabrika za proizvodnju konfekcije i trikotaže raška, a socially-owned company based in novi pazar (hereinafter “the debtor company”). on 2 december 2010 the kraljevo commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company (st. on 15 march 2011 the commercial court rejected his claim and instructed him to initiate a regular civil suit and request determination of his claim. the applicant lodged a separate civil claim. on 1 december 2011 the commercial court ruled in favour of the applicant by recognizing his claim and ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant the costs of the civil proceedings. on an unspecified date thereafter, the said judgment having become final, was acknowledged within the insolvency proceedings. on 22 july 2013 the commercial court issued a decision ordering payment of approximately 10 % of the total debt to the applicant. the applicant received this payment on an unspecified date. the debtor company was ultimately struck from the relevant public register on 9 july 2014. on 16 december 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal complaining against the commercial court’s decision of 22 july 2013 and that his right to work and right to compensation for work and providing services were infringed, because he received only 10 % of the total debt. he asked further the constitutional court to order the payment of the rest of the debt. on 2 march 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal finding that it is not vested with the power to order such a payment. that decision was delivered to the applicant after 24 april 2015.
he lived in the republic of dagestan and was the mayor of makhachkala between 1998 and 2013. in june 2013 the applicant was arrested and placed in custody pending criminal proceedings against him. he underwent basic medical tests and received the treatment he had been prescribed. they solicited medical opinions on the treatment required. on 14 july 2015 dr w., a specialist in neurology, examined the applicant. the doctor suggested that the applicant’s state of health might warrant early release on medical grounds and stated that he needed constant medical care. on 14 april 2016 the applicant was moved to medical unit no. the applicant was provided with a wide bed, a sink installed at a low level, and a medical couch, which he used during self-catheterisation procedures. no recommendations for inpatient treatment or urgent medical measures were made. on 8 june 2016 the applicant was visited by an exercise-therapy specialist, who taught him exercises to support his health. it was designed for two persons and measured 12 sq. m, which satisfied the requirements of the execution of sentences act ... [the applicant’s] cellmate assisted him in his daily needs, which included hygienic procedures and moving around the cell. moreover,] the detention facility did not take measures to provide the exercise and sport therapy [for the applicant] indicated in his rehabilitation programme. in the light of the above, on 2 june 2016 the prosecutor’s office for supervision of detention facilities in orenburg issued a formal order to the head of the correctional colony to rectify the identified shortcomings. the order has been ... complied with ...there are no grounds for a further intervention by the prosecutor ...”
the applicant was born in 1975 in vladikavkaz, the republic of north ossetia‑alania. he is currently detained in correctional colony no. 20/1 in grozny, the chechen republic (“the remand prison”). on 17 july 2014 the gudermes town court of the chechen republic convicted him as charged and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. radiotherapy and surgery were prescribed. such treatment was considered advanced medical care, which could only be provided under a special programme in limited numbers. in october and november 2013 he was transferred to the regional cancer hospital in rostov (“the cancer hospital”). on 22 september 2014 the applicant was admitted to the town hospital in groznyy for cancer surgery, but refused it the next day as he had no confidence in the doctors. on 6 april 2015 the head of the cancer hospital informed the detention authorities that the medical institution was unable to perform such complex surgery. 54 of 6 february 2004 setting out a list of illnesses warranting early release. on 25 january 2016 the court indicated to the russian government, under rule 39, that it was desirable in the interests of the proper conduct of the proceedings that the applicant be immediately examined by medical experts independent from the penal system with a view to determining: (i) whether he had been receiving adequate medical care; (ii) whether his current state of health was compatible with detention in the correctional colony; and (iii) whether his state of health called for urgent surgery and/or for a transfer to an appropriate civilian or prison hospital. according to a letter from the head of the medical unit dated 14 april 2016, the facility was unable to carry any surgery out as its surgical unit was undergoing renovation. having learned of the inability of the medical unit to provide the applicant with the required treatment, the detention authorities asked the cancer institute to perform the surgery. the request was refused due to a lack of appropriate security measures at the institution. on 6 october 2016 the applicant agreed to the treatment in a cancer hospital.
the first applicant, mr stemplys, was born in 1963 and lives in marijampolė. the second applicant, mr debesys, was born in 1954 and lives in vilnius. the first applicant was detained in the pravieniškės correctional facility from 6 april 2005 to 28 august 2015. on 19 december 2012 he submitted a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells and that his health had deteriorated as a result. he claimed 250,000 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 72,400 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 26 february 2013 the kaunas regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s claim in part. it firstly held that the time-limit for claiming damages was three years from the damage being caused, and thus dismissed the part of the applicant’s claim concerning the period before 19 december 2009 as time‑barred. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic standard of 3.1 sq. m. however, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms. the court further underlined that the applicant was detained in a dormitory-type facility, he was able to move around freely during the day, and various leisure and educational activities were available. he was awarded ltl 1,000 (approximately eur 290) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. m, and that during that period for fourteen days he had been placed in solitary confinement as a disciplinary measure, where he had had 3.47 sq. m. again, the court found that the sanitary conditions in the cells complied with relevant domestic hygiene norms, and dismissed as unproven the applicant’s claims that his health had deteriorated. the court then found that from 28 june 2009 to 28 june 2012 (the day when the applicant had submitted his complaint) he had had around 2.55 sq. on 18 september 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance court’s judgment in its entirety.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. it was later established that the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber and organised by a militant group operating in the north caucasus. the applicant, who was present at the airport at the time of explosion, sustained multiple injuries to her body (wounds, contusions and fractures) which provoked further complications (cerebral oedema, coma, respiratory and cardiac insufficiency and a traumatic shock). the applicant’s injuries were life-threatening and caused serious harm to her health. within the framework of the criminal investigation into the bombing, the investigative authorities arrested four persons. three defendants received life sentence and the fourth one was sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. on 25 november 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of 11 november 2013 in substance on appeal. according to the government, the applicant was granted a victim status. she did not bring a civil action for damages against the convicted persons. on 25 january 2011 the russian authorities opened criminal investigation on the charges of negligence against the airport managers and employees and the policemen deployed at the airport. on 22 march 2011 the applicant was granted a victim status in the proceedings. on 5 march 2012 the investigator decided to recall it. on 22 may 2012 the deputy president of the investigative committee of the russian federation quashed the decision of 26 march 2012 and re-opened the case. on 3 june 2013 the basmannyy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 5 march 2012. on an unspecified date the applicant brought a civil claim against the airport seeking damages resulting from the failure of the airport security to prevent the bombing.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in râbniţa. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). he was charged with fraud and incitement to bribery. that form of authority, together with the application form, reached the court on 19 november 2001. on 20 november 2001, a lawyer from lhr informed the moldovan prosecutor general’s office that the applicant and seven other people were being held in pruncul prison hospital on the basis that they had been convicted by “mrt” courts. he asked for their immediate release, in view of the fact that they had been convicted by unlawful courts. a similar letter was sent on the same day to the minister of justice. on 23 november 2001, lhr informed the media of the detainees’ transfer back to the “mrt” authorities on 21 november 2001. on 26 november 2001, the head of the penal institutions department of the ministry of justice informed lhr that the detainees mentioned in their request of 20 november 2001 were not being held at pruncul prison hospital. he never received a reply to that letter. during his detention in tiraspol prison no. he was also affected by parasitic insects. the applicant is a person with a category 3 disability, but he was not given any medication during his detention. food was served only once a day and was of very poor quality.
the applicant was employed by hk komgrap and komgrap-makiš doo, a company based in belgrade (hereinafter “the debtor”). at the relevant time, the company was predominantly socially-owned (see stoković and others v. serbia, nos. since the debtor had failed to fulfil its obligations towards its employees, the applicant brought a civil claim seeking payment of salary arrears and various social security contributions. on 23 june 2003 the belgrade second municipal court (drugi opštinski sud u beogradu) ordered the debtor to pay to the applicant certain sums in respect of salary arrears and the various social security contributions. this judgment became final and enforceable on 25 july 2005. on 26 september 2005 the applicant applied to the belgrade fourth municipal court (četvrti opštinski sud u beogradu) for enforcement of the judgment of 23 june 2003. on 18 january 2006 the said court ordered the enforcement of the judgment and awarded the applicant the costs incurred in the enforcement proceedings. on 27 october 2010 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, seeking redress for the non-enforcement of the judgment in question. on 27 november 2013 the constitutional court held that the applicant had suffered a breach of the “right to a trial within a reasonable time” with regard to the enforcement proceedings. the court ordered the acceleration of these proceedings and declared that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in the amount of 800 euros (eur) converted into the national currency at the rate applicable at the date of settlement. the constitutional court held that since the enforcement proceedings in question had not yet been completed, the constitutional appeals were premature in so far as they concerned the pecuniary damage, and dismissed the appeal in that regard.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1983 respectively. on 17 october 2006 russian post concluded a contract with the limited liability company multidisciplinary processing (ooo многопрофильная процессинговая компания – hereinafter “mpk”) and the telecommunications company rostelekom, whereby mpk undertook to print rostelekom’s telephone bills and deliver them through russian post to rostelekom’s customers. subsequently, ms b., a manager at yves rocher vostok, asked the second applicant for advice on handling the transfer of parcels from the distribution centre and he suggested that she use a private contractor, gpa. on 2 august 2008 the financial director of yves rocher vostok, mr k.m., on 10 august 2008 gpa subcontracted the freight forwarding services under that agreement to two specialist courier companies. gpa and its contractors provided those services to yves rocher vostok until the end of 2012. in the same period, the first applicant ran an increasingly public anti-corruption campaign targeting high-ranking public officials (see navalnyy and ofitserov v. russia, nos. 46632/13 and 28671/14, § 15, 23 february 2016). on 5 july 2012 mr bastrykin made a public statement expressing his determination to have the first applicant prosecuted. on 26 july 2012 the first applicant published an article about mr bastrykin, alleging in particular that his business activities and residence status were incompatible with the office he held (ibid., §§ this preventive measure was maintained until 5 january 2015. at about 4 p.m. on 29 december 2014 the applicants and their defence counsel were summoned by telephone to appear in court at 9 a.m. on 30 december 2014 for delivery of the judgment, which had been brought forward from 15 january 2015 for unknown reasons. the first applicant appealed against the extension of his house arrest on 31 december 2014. on 19 january 2015 the moscow city prosecutor’s office appealed against the first-instance judgment on the grounds that the sentence given to both applicants had been too lenient. on 28 january 2015 the applicants challenged the accuracy of the verbatim records of the first-instance hearing.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. on 18 june 1998 the applicant started working for a company owned by i̇zmir city council (“the city council”). however, his requests were rejected by the city council. on 28 june 2007 the applicant initiated proceedings before the i̇zmir labour court, seeking reinstatement. he relied on clause 19 of the collective bargaining agreement in force at the company (“the collective agreement”), which provided for the reinstatement of employees who had quit their jobs to perform their military service, provided that they applied within three months of their discharge from the armed forces. on 12 september 2007, in a decision rendered orally in the presence of the parties, the i̇zmir labour court found in favour of the applicant. the labour court held that the applicant’s discharge from the military shortly after he had been enlisted fell under the provision of the collective agreement, which called for the suspension of the employment contract when an employee was conscripted (silah altına alınma) for reasons other than compulsory military service, such as being recalled to the armed forces in times of war. the court informed the parties that they could appeal against this decision within the time-limits set out in the applicable procedure. on 18 september 2007 the city council appealed against the decision and reserved its right to submit additional observations once the reasoned judgment of the first-instance court had been served on it. that appeal was not communicated to the applicant. on 15 october 2007, the registry of the first-instance court forwarded the file to the court of cassation for appeal on points of law. on 23 october 2007 the city council submitted its additional observations. these observations were also not communicated to the applicant. it held that a rejection of the applicant’s request for reinstatement could not be regarded as the termination of the applicant’s employment contract; therefore, the applicant could not technically ask to be reinstated. this decision was served on the applicant on 22 september 2008.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in forráskút. at the time of lodging the application, he was detained at márianosztra prison. on appeal, on 14 october 2014 the budapest court of appeal upheld the judgment. the applicant began serving his sentence at szeged prison on 15 january 2015 and was transferred to márianosztra prison on 26 january 2015. he was released on parole on 8 september 2015. m; the gross ground surface of the cell was 16 sq. m for five occupants but included the in-cell sanitary facility. he was provided with basic standard meals and was able to take a shower twice a week. only between 26 and 29 january and 11 and 15 may 2015 he was held in a cell where a wall separated the toilet from the rest of the space. he could take a shower twice a week and pursue certain free-time activities. at his request, he was provided with vegetarian meals but very often consisting only of soya beans. the applicant submitted that he suffered from epilepsy and a personality disorder. as regards the medical care in prison, the government submitted that, during the first examination at szeged prison, the applicant had stated that he suffered from epilepsy without presenting any relevant documentation. during his first medical examination at márianosztra prison, the doctor noted that the applicant’s aptitude for work could be assessed only after external medical records concerning his illness had been obtained. he suffered further fits on 4 may and 8 july 2015, following which a neurologist prescribed him anti-epileptic drugs, but he agreed to take them only after suffering yet another seizure.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in smederevo. on 26 march 2007 the applicant lodged a claim with the žabari municipal court against his employer, the ministry of interior, seeking payment of certain benefits. on 23 april 2012 the požarevac first instance court the žabari court unit ruled in favour of the applicant. on 4 october 2012 the belgrade appellate court revised the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim. the applicant received the said judgment on 5 november 2012. on 12 november 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in százhalombatta. the detention measure was extended on 8 may and again on 7 august 2009. a further extension was ordered on 9 november 2009. it was of note that the group had existed for quite some time and had been committed to carrying out terrorist acts. moreover, the volume of evidence supporting a reasonable suspicion, as weighed individually against the applicant, was increasing. on 7 april 2010 the measure was renewed, with special reference to the fact that the case was concerned with a series of crimes committed over a long period of time by a criminal organisation. the applicant was released from detention the next day. during the ensuing period he complied with the rules of house arrest. in addition to the previously cited reasons, the court considered that there was no reason to assume that the applicant’s political motivation behind the incriminated acts had subsided, which meant that the risk of re-offending was real. on 24 november 2010 the budapest court of appeal ordered the applicant’s house arrest, observing that the applicant had abided by the previous house arrest (see paragraph 10 above) and holding that the risk of re-offending was slight. for want of evidence, this new investigation was discontinued on 30 october 2015. on 18 december 2015 the applicant was released from detention and put under house arrest, which lasted until 27 july 2016. he was sentenced to 12 years in a strict-regime prison. both the defendants and the prosecution appealed. the outcome of the ensuing proceedings is unknown.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in budenovsk, the stavropol region of the russian federation. on an unspecified date the applicant sued his former employer military unit. on 3 may 2001 the military court of the pyatigorsk garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military unit to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for the time when the applicant had participated in a military operation. the judgment contained information on the indexes and other parameters that should be applied for the awarded amounts to be calculated. on 14 may 2001 the judgment came into force. in march 2002 the applicant obtained the writ of execution and submitted it to the department of the federal treasury in budenovsk. on 19 march 2002 the department of the federal treasury returned the writ of execution to the applicant on the ground that the military unit did not have an account there, and the judgment contained no specific amounts awarded to the applicant. on 21 march 2002 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the bailiffs’ service. on the same day the enforcement proceedings were initiated. on 19 february 2003 the enforcement proceedings were terminated and the writ was returned to the applicant without enforcement following his request to withdraw the writ. the applicant’s requests were dismissed as being lodged out of time. the courts noted that, in any case, the matter concerning the awarded amounts should have been resolved by way of an additional decision rather than clarification of a final judgment, and informed that an application for an additional decision should have been lodged before the entry into force of the main judgment. it is not disputed between the parties that the judgment of 3 may 2001 remained unenforced in the part concerning the payment to the applicant of the second salary and the field allowances for the periods specified in the judgment. on 24 march 2016, after communication of the present case, the ministry of finance of russia calculated the amount due to the applicant under the judgment of 3 may 2001. according to this calculation, the main debt amounted to 80,220.74 russian roubles.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in lisichansk-18, the lugansk region of ukraine. in 1972 the applicant suffered 100 per cent disability as a result of a traffic accident. in 1994 the lisichansk town court of the lugansk region of ukraine found the state health care institution of the sanitary and epidemiology monitoring of the ministry of railways of the russian federation (“the institution”) responsible for the accident and ordered it to pay to the applicant compensation and to reimburse his medical expenses. since that time, the applicant has been involved in several sets of proceedings concerning various types of allowances and compensation due to him. on 17 july 1995 by the lisichansk town court ordered the increase of the monthly payments due to the applicant in respect of compensation, allowances and medical expenses. it appears that the debtor institution complied with the judgment in part and in may 2000 discontinued payments due under the judgment. on 31 march 2006 the perm regional court of russia allowed the applicant’s request for compulsory execution of the above judgment in russia as from may 2000. the applicant sued the defendant institution for medical expenses, various types of allowances and compensation, as well as index-linking and arrears in the respective payments, and acquired several judgments by russian courts in his favour listed in appendixes i and ii. in course of the proceedings the defendant institution was replaced by the federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region and the komi-perm autonomous region” and subsequently by federal health care institution “hygiene and epidemiology center of the perm region”, its legal successors. he complained about non-enforcement to the ministry of finance, the prosecutor’s office and various other authorities, but to no avail. the judgments were enforced fully or in part on dates listed in appendixes i and ii. some of them have not been enforced, as shown in the tables below.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in toronto, canada. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8-42, echr 2012 (extracts)). consequently, d. refused to send the diesel fuel. on 24 january 1997 he was summoned again. he did not appeal against that judgment, which then became final. the cell was a concrete box with no windows or ventilation, and no natural light, toilet or tap water. according to the applicant, after his transfer to an ordinary cell and until his release, he was detained in cells with persons who were ill with tuberculosis. during his detention several detainees died from tuberculosis. he was given food once a day – some 250 grams of soup (containing no protein or vitamins), 100 grams of porridge of the same quality, and 250 grams of bread. as a result of the lack of food the applicant developed constant hunger pains, which he viewed as tantamount to torture. the cell was infested with blood-sucking parasites. their bites caused him discomfort and itching, which in turn created wounds that bled after being scratched. on an unknown date in 1997 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the moldovan prosecutor general’s office of the unlawful detention of his client ordered by the “mrt” authorities. in reply to a complaint concerning his client lodged on an unknown date with the russian president, on 25 september 2002 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the complaint had been forwarded to the moldovan supreme court of justice.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in vranje. the insolvency proceedings against the debtor company are still ongoing. the second applicant was born in 1956 and lives in niš. on 22 december 2005 the second applicant concluded the settlement with the debtor company before the niš municipal court, by which the debtor company was obliged to pay the second applicant specified amounts on account of salary arrears and social insurance contributions, plus the costs of the civil proceedings. this settlement became final on an unspecified date. this judgment became final by 23 december 2008. on 28 december 2010, upon the second applicant’s request to that effect, the niš municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the second applicant the enforcement costs. these decisions became final on unspecified dates. on 11 february 2013 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. that decision was delivered to the second applicant after 16 july 2015. he was employed by dp industrija filip kljajić, a socially-owned company based in kragujevac (hereinafter “the debtor company”). the third applicant duly submitted his respective claim. on 25 october 2010 the third applicant’s claim was formally recognised. on 28 december 2015 the constitutional court dismissed his appeal as lodged out of time. that decision was delivered to the third applicant on 29 january 2016.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in afidnes attikis. for breach of duty and extortion concerning acts he had allegedly committed as mayor of kifissia municipality. he made a further statement under oath related to his criminal complaint on 21 december 2001. at the time the complaint was lodged c.t. that request was rejected on 20 march 2002. on 21 october 2003 the criminal complaint was submitted to parliament. on 18 march 2004 the applicant lodged an application with the european court of human rights, complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention that parliament’s refusal to lift c.t. ’s immunity had violated his right of access to a court. to date, the committee of ministers of the council of europe has not yet concluded the supervision of the execution of the judgment under article 46 § 2 of the convention. following a preliminary examination, criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision. for the offences of which he had been accused ...” 13. on 5 may 2010 the court of cassation dismissed the appeal on points of law (decision no. as regards article 366 § 2 of the criminal code ... the suspension of criminal proceedings is obligatory, but also requires a prior criminal prosecution for the act that a defendant has alleged or disseminated information about ... in the present case ... the court dismissed the above requests, providing full and correct reasoning, in particular because the immunity of the person against whom the criminal complaint had been lodged, who is now a civil party and member of parliament, had not been lifted. finally, on 31 may 2010 the applicant paid 5,799.94 euros in lieu of serving his sentence.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sofia, bulgaria, where he apparently moved from france in november 2013. he was taken to the first district police station and placed under police detention. according to the applicant, he was not put in a cell, but handcuffed to a bench in the station’s corridor. he was visited by an ex officio lawyer appointed for him by the authorities. in the late afternoon or the evening of 24 january 2014 the applicant was taken to a hospital for a medical examination, and then, at about 10 p.m. the same day, taken to a pre-trial detention facility in sofia. it appears that the next day, or one of the following days, the applicant was brought before the sofia district court with a view to a decision on whether he should be remanded in detention, and that it was decided that he should remain in custody pending trial. according to the applicant, upon his arrival in the pre-trial detention facility on the evening of 24 january 2014 (see paragraph 8 above), he was given a dirty mattress, pillow and blanket, but no bedlinen. he was given antibiotics for it but was not taken to a hospital. since it had to be shared among them, each inmate had about six minutes to use it. the same day the facility’s head approved the list. the applicant was apparently able to call his mother in france for the first time two days later, on 26 february 2014. he did not provide further details in that respect, but from the documents submitted by him it appears that between 24 march and 14 april 2014, a period of three weeks, he had not spoken on the telephone to his mother in france. she was apparently able to visit him the next day. it appears that a bulgarian friend of the applicant who had also come to visit him on 22 march 2014 was likewise turned away. he had also received parcels with food and other items on twenty-one occasions.
the applicant was born in 1981 and is currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in nysa prison. on 20 march 2006, after examining the applicant and analysing his medical file from 2000, psychiatrists concluded that he should undergo a psychiatric assessment, in order to determine whether he could be held criminally responsible for this offence. t., an expert who spoke on behalf of the team, stated in particular that the experts had excluded the possibility that the applicant was simulating a mental illness. it also noted that the applicant had undergone psychiatric treatment since 2000. on 29 october 2010 experts from lubliniec hospital gave an opinion following a periodic review of the applicant’s condition. she further agreed with the pruszków experts’ opinion (see paragraph 24 above) that the applicant suffered from a personality disorder. on 24 september 2012 the katowice regional court dismissed the applicant’s application to be released from hospital. the applicant did not appeal against that decision. however, she told him that many patients made the same claim. even if he had not been insane at the time when the offences had been committed, there was still a risk that he would commit further offences in view of his dissocial personality disorder. on 25 november 2013 the applicant lodged his own appeal, submitting in particular that he had been simulating a mental illness. on 20 january 2014 the applicant was transferred to toszek psychiatric hospital. on 25 october 2013 a bill of indictment was lodged with the katowice regional court. they were also convinced that, between june and august 2005, the applicant had been able to recognise the significance of his actions and control his behaviour. on 22 april 2015 the court heard evidence from psychiatrists from pruszków hospital who had prepared the opinion of 17 june 2012 (see paragraph 24 above).
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in split. on 19 may 2011 the applicant and several other individuals (see, for further information, šoš v. croatia, no. the reasoning of the relevant decisions is outlined in the case of šoš (cited above, §§ 20 and 23). he found that all the relevant witnesses had been questioned and that there was no further possibility of remanding the suspects in detention on the grounds of the risk of collusion. as to the other grounds relied upon for the pre-trial detention, the investigating judge reiterated his previous findings. on 16 may 2012 the applicant and nine other individuals were indicted on charges of drug trafficking in the split county court. following the submission of the indictment, on 18 may 2012 a three-judge panel of the split county court extended the pre-trial detention in respect of the applicant and the other accused relying on article 123 § 1 (3) and (4) of the code of criminal procedure (risk of reoffending and seriousness of charges). his pre-trial detention was extended several times on the same grounds. the reasoning of the relevant decisions is outlined in the šoš case (cited above, §§ 44, 47 and 52). it explained that the 2013 amendments to the criminal code provided that the offence at issue was punishable by a prison sentence of between three and fifteen years and no longer by long-term imprisonment. on 7 june 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the said provision of the oscoca made a mistaken reference to article 130 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure. it also considered that the cited provision was incomprehensible since, if understood as provided in that act, it merely repeated paragraph 1 of section 35 of the oscoca, which would be obsolete. instead it should be interpreted in line with the previous abrogated version of the oscoca, which in its section 28(3) had provided for a possibility of extension of the overall maximum period of detention for a further six months, which was in the applicant’s case until 19 november 2013. on 18 june 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) reiterating his previous arguments. on 11 july 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the supreme court.
the applicant company was ordered to pay eur 10,000 in damages to a person referred to as a presumed member of the mafia on one page of a book published by it. the applicant company is a prominent german book-publishing house with its registered office in munich. both of whom had been dining there purely as a matter of chance, as [s.p.] has and the esteem in which he is held by the italian community, one forms the opinion that [s.p.] becoming a member of the romeo alias ‘staccu’ clan. ...direct relatives of the clan live in germany and run pizza restaurants. had already been mentioned by name in the context of organised crime. on 13 november 2008, the munich regional court issued the injunction and confirmed it on 15 december 2008 after hearing both parties. lastly, the court continued, the book had been published unlawfully because the plaintiff had not been given any opportunity to make a statement regarding the suspicion prior to publication. the evidentiary facts researched by the author and published by the applicant company did not constitute sufficient proof of the exceptionally grave suspicion raised in the book. the court established that even the internal report by the federal office of criminal investigation only mentioned a number of vague suspicious circumstances, for the most part without providing any details or naming any specific sources. for example, it said that because of the high respect in which the plaintiff was held in the “italian milieu”, he must be a fully fledged member of the ‘ndrangheta. moreover, the court continued, certain statements in the book were incorrect, such as the region in which the plaintiff had been born. as far as the violation of the plaintiff’s personality right was concerned, the court of appeal endorsed the reasoning of the regional court. it had been grossly negligent on the part of the applicant company to disseminate an allegation based on a suspicion which seriously interfered with the plaintiff’s personality right in spite of the fact that the plaintiff had obviously not been given an opportunity to be heard and that the allegation had been disseminated without including the necessary information that the murder investigation addressed by the book subsequently had been discontinued.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in sofia. the applicant is a former police officer. criminal proceedings were brought against him in 1996. by a decision of the competent prosecutor of 6 march 1996, as provided under domestic law at the time, the applicant was placed under house arrest. he was once again placed under house arrest on 1 july 1996 and was released on 30 september 1997. the applicant therefore was deprived of his liberty for one year, six months and twenty-five days. in a final judgment of 27 january 1998 the sofia military court found the applicant guilty of failing to perform his duties and he was given a one‑year suspended prison sentence. in another set of proceedings, in a final judgment of 26 march 2003 the supreme court of cassation convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to one year of imprisonment. the court also held in the second set of proceedings that the applicant should serve a single sentence for all his offences, which was set at one year in prison. on 1 july 2003 the applicant was once again detained and placed in prison to serve his sentence. he was released on 18 september 2003 by a decision of the competent prosecutor. he claimed 20,000 bulgarian levs (bgn) for non-pecuniary damage for his detention in 1996-97 to the extent it had exceeded the set term of imprisonment and bgn 40,000 for his imprisonment between 1 july and 18 september 2003. it justified the reduction by referring to the “nature of the offences” the applicant had been convicted for, the “regime under which the sentence had been served” and the “socially acceptable criteria for justice”. it did not deal with the matter of court fees and took no separate decision in that regard. the court has not been informed whether and when the amount above was paid to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in baku. he was the chairman of the azerbaijani national statehood party. who encountered a number of technical problems with it. contacted the applicant and they agreed to meet on the same day. and then assaulted him together with a certain c. 8. a passer-by intervened and stopped the altercation. reported the incident to the police on the same day. the investigator’s decision stated that at around 8.30 p.m. on 7 january 2011 the applicant and a certain c. had insulted and assaulted e.r. on 8 january 2011 the police compiled a record of the applicant’s arrest as a suspect. on 12 january 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, stating that there was no justification for the application of the preventive measure of remand in custody and that the court had failed to substantiate the necessity for his detention pending trial. he submitted that more time was needed to complete the investigation. on 4 march 2011 the applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that the first-instance court had failed to substantiate its decision on his continued detention. on 9 march 2011 the baku court of appeal upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 3 march 2011. no further extension decisions are available in the case file. the applicant was released from serving the remainder of his sentence by a presidential pardon issued on 17 march 2016.
the applicants were born in 1954 and 1951 respectively and live in kumanovo. through a proprio motu investigation it also established that the land in question had been part of a larger undeveloped, state-owned plot. in a decision of 15 april 2003, which became final on 16 may 2003, the kumanovo court of first instance, in non-contentious proceedings, accepted the applicants’ application to have the state, represented by the solicitor general, delineate the area belonging to them (8,309 sq. m) from a larger plot of land belonging to the state. on 7 october 2003 the solicitor general sought, in administrative proceedings, that the restitution order be declared, under section 267(1)(5) of the administrative procedure act (see paragraph 37 below), partially null and void in respect of the part of the land which had been returned to the applicants but allegedly had not been confiscated from their predecessor. under the terms of the relevant domestic law applicable at the time, this was the final decision. with regard to the differences in surface areas the judgment stated:“the court, in deciding, assessed the arguments of the [solicitor general] put forward in the claim, but it did not accept them as bases to decide differently, because none of the conditions under [section] 267 of the administrative procedure act for declaring the order null and void had been fulfilled.” m. the restitution commission also referred to evidence submitted on 23 august 2001 by the land registry office, according to which the area of the plot had been six shinik and had represented a part of a larger plot of land, the total surface area of which was 8,309 sq. m. a further extract from a “geodetic review of the association of land experts of macedonia” and “review of old units of land area and their conversion into hectares, areas and sq. m. lastly, the commission relied on a cadastral plan drawn up by a licenced surveyor (катастарска скица изработена од геометар) made for a separate set of restitution proceedings (instituted by the heirs of g.t.), the applicants lodged an administrative action against the latter decision before the administrative court. on 3 and 4 august 2010 the solicitor general and the third persons respectively appealed against that judgment before the supreme court, which had in the meantime become competent to act upon appeals against judgments of the administrative court. m, which had been preceded by an accurate determination of the object of expropriation. this decision was served on the applicants on 24 december 2010 and 25 january 2011 respectively. on 19 december 2012, in civil proceedings initiated by the second applicant against the land registry, the kumanovo court of first instance issued an injunction banning the respondent state from disposing of the plot of land.
the case concerned the publication of a newspaper article on the website of the new york times. in the article the applicant had been mentioned by name and, based on reports by the us federal bureau of investigation (hereinafter “the fbi”) and european law-enforcement agencies, the applicant’s alleged ties to russian organised crime had been publicised. the united states attorney in manhattan, [m.w.], and boris fuchsmann, well known around kiev for their influence and wealth. ’s claim of his ties to organized crime, although an assistant confirmed that he had received the inquiries. he is barred from entering the united states. that is the second transaction being looked at by prosecutors. it is not clear why such a circuitous route was used, and a person involved in the transaction, with inside knowledge of the owners of international teleservices, said the $1.4 million payment was not for a license fee. central european media officials were nervous about the license they won, and sought the opinion of two law firms in kiev. however, the applicant refrained from answering the questions or commenting on the planned publication. on 31 july 2002 the applicant sought injunctions against certain parts of the article (highlighted in the article, see paragraph 9 above), published in the print and online versions. in addition, the reporting must be balanced, the journalist must not fail to report on exculpatory circumstances and the person concerned must, as a rule, be invited to make his own comments before publication. the court also took into account that the article remained accessible in an online archive of the daily newspaper. therefore, the informational interest of the public outweighed the concerns of protecting the applicant’s personality right, even taking into account that such reporting might seriously damage his private and professional reputation. on 26 april 2013 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint (no.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in krasnodar. he and his brother were pushing their broken motorcycle to take it to a friend for repairs. then sat on the motorcycle and asked them to push it. seized the applicant by his neck, knocked him down and started strangling him. at 2 p.m. on 4 november 2003 the applicant’s brother was apprehended for driving a motorcycle without a driving licence. the krasnogvardeyskiy district court, however, granted the applicant’s father’s appeal against that decision, finding that the decision, the administrative-offence record and other material lacked any evidence of the applicant’s father’s failure to properly raise the applicant, and that, on the contrary, all his children had been well cared for, had studied hard at school, and the family was well thought of. the applicant was heard by the court and denied having used obscene language. at 5.45 p.m. on 4 november 2003 the applicant was examined by a surgeon at the krasnogvardeyskiy district hospital, who recorded three abrasions on his neck which were 3 to 10 cm long, and a contusion to his right elbow. the prosecutor noted that the relevant administrative proceedings had been brought against the applicant’s father, and no statements concerning those events had been taken from the applicant. the applicant had been sitting on the passenger’s seat. the investigator referred to explanations by sh. since then she had not been informed of any new decision. she argued that the police officers’ actions, as a result of which the applicant had sustained serious bodily injuries, had been unlawful, and that criminal proceedings should be instituted against them. it also noted that the applicant, no longer a minor, should have applied to court himself. since the district court had not examined whether the refusal to institute criminal proceedings of 29 november 2005 was lawful and well-founded, the adygeya republic supreme court could not deal with that issue on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in istanbul. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 december 2009 the applicant was arrested. on 9 december 2009 the applicant was placed in detention on remand by the judge at the istanbul assize court on suspicion of committing crimes on behalf of an illegal terrorist organisation, disseminating propaganda for the same organisation, storage of hazardous materials, and damage to public property. on 30 december 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed his indictment with the istanbul assize court. on 6 may 2010 the first hearing was held before the istanbul assize court. at the end of the hearing the court ordered the continuation of his detention in the presence of the applicant. the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 20 may 2010 the 10th chamber of istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding an oral hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 10 december 2010 the applicant was released from detention on remand. at the time when the application was lodged, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mersin. the applicant is a teacher in primary school and at the material time she was a member and secretary of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası). on 28 november 2008 the applicant participated in a demonstration organised by the above mentioned trade union on the theme “no to violence against women”. on 29 june 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on the applicant for her participation in the aforementioned demonstration under article 125 of the law no. on 10 july 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment. on 29 july 2009 the disciplinary board of the yenişehir district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
following the establishment of the communist regime in romania in 1947, the state proceeded to nationalise buildings and agricultural land on a large scale. 112/1995 and 10/2001 established the principle of restitution of nationalised residential property and compensation in cases where restitution was no longer possible. furthermore, no procedure was available to former owners who, in the absence of restitution, would have been entitled to compensation but who did not to have access to it because the circumstances rendering restitution impossible had become known after the expiry of the time-limit for lodging compensation claims (ibid., § in its judgment of 6 june 1997 the bucharest fourth district court allowed the claims and ordered that the property be returned to the applicant, in her capacity as sole heiress of its rightful owners. the sale contract in respect of the ground-floor flat was concluded on 23 june 1997 between b. on behalf of the state, and the tenant, s. a.-l. (c)  steps taken under ordinary law and under law no. on 12 october 2001 the applicant lodged a notice of claim with the bucharest city hall under law no. on 23 and 24 april 2015 the bucharest city hall requested the applicant to complete her administrative file with documents related to her claim. as far as the court is aware, no decision has been taken in respect of this claim. 30, located in building a/4, victoria street, piteşti – the applicants’ property – was seized by the state under decree no. between 1991 and 1995, the applicants wrote several letters to various domestic authorities, including the piteşti city council, the piteşti prefect’s office and the director of company r., which managed the building on behalf of the state, seeking to obtain possession of the flat. on 9 july 1996 the applicants lodged a claim with the administrative authorities, seeking reparatory measures in respect of flat no. 30, in accordance with the provisions of law no. on 23 march 2001 the piteşti court of appeal dismissed the appeal because no statement of appeal had been submitted. seeking to recover possession of flat no.
the applicants, who belong to the roma ethnic group, were born in 1970 and 1957 respectively and live in mănăstirea (călărași). on 3 october 2013 the applicants married. on 5 august 2011 the dgaspc drew up a report on the six oldest children, noting as follows:“... the conclusions of the social services’ report indicate shortcomings in the place of residence (the dwelling belongs to c.g.; ..., ... [the applicants] are known in the community as individuals who generate conflict and tensions, and who frequently accuse, criticise and insult the local authorities and their neighbours for financial reasons (they ask for additional benefits, etc.)... the applicants lodged appeals against those judgments. it noted the temporary nature of the measure, which was due to be lifted once the applicants had submitted the necessary financial and non-financial guarantees with regard to raising their children. by a final judgment of 28 november 2011, the appeal court dismissed the applicants’ appeal against the judgment of 7 september 2011 in respect of i.’s placement. however, the dgaspc noted that the toilet area was not equipped in such a way as to permit privacy and that various sections of the roof had been visibly damaged by storms. it explained that it would be better to delay the children’s return to their family and that the parents needed to achieve a certain level of progress, under the spas’s supervision, to acquire the necessary skills to ensure their children’s safety and to be informed of the potential risks to the children. on this occasion, it was noted that the applicants were maintaining contact with their children by telephone, since it was difficult for them to travel to the residential centre on account of the wintery weather conditions. in the meantime, on 11 january 2012 the applicants had brought an action against the dgaspc before the county court. the appeal court concluded that, in any event, the improvements in the applicants’ living conditions noted in the social inquiry report which had been added to the case file (see paragraph 42 above) was not the only condition that the applicants had to fulfil before being able to request their children’s return. by a decision of 4 april 2012, the municipal council granted the first applicant the above-mentioned ron 1,800 in emergency aid. on 10 april 2012 the applicants had a confidential interview with a psychologist from the dgaspc. in may 2012 the children underwent psychological tests, which revealed an improvement in their general condition since they had been placed in care.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in antalya. the applicant is a teacher in a high school. at the material time he was a member of the local branch of the trade union of education and science workers (eğitim ve bilim emekçileri sendikası). in may 2009, disciplinary proceedings were instituted against the applicant for putting up a notice encouraging the participation in a press statement published by his union on the notice board that was set aside for that particular purpose in their office, and for distributing it in one of the common areas at school. on 30 september 2009 the district directorate of national education imposed a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reprimand on him, for putting up and distributing notices produced by the trade union, of which he was a member, under article 125 of the law no. on 6 october 2009 the applicant objected to this decision and requested its annulment. on 15 october 2009 the disciplinary board of the kepez district governor dismissed the applicant’s objection considering that the contested decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment.
the applicant was born in 1933 and lives in ajdovščina. she was told that mr štefančič was mentally ill and had already been treated in the hospital several times. in view of this, the psychiatrist had assessed that mr štefančič was dangerous and in need of treatment, and added that he should be taken seriously due to his physical strength. at 5.30 p.m. a doctor from the health centre telephoned the ajdovščina police station to request police assistance with mr štefančič’s involuntary confinement on the grounds that he could become aggressive. they asked her whether her son was in the house and whether he was armed. ordered a muzzled dog on a leash to jump at him. she asked the police officers what was going on, to which one of them replied that they were resuscitating her son. the applicant stated that on the evening of 19 june 2008 several police cars and an ambulance drove to the house and an officer asked her whether her son was keeping firearms. she replied that he was not, as far as she was aware. took him by the arms to lead him to the ambulance but he resisted strongly. as far as he could remember, he called out that mr štefančič was not breathing. on 21 july 2008 a criminal investigations officer of the nova gorica police obtained an oral preliminary report from the forensic pathologist who had performed the autopsy of mr štefančič. as to the events leading to the death, the police report summarised the statements given by the intervention team and stated that mr štefančič had resisted the police officers who had tried to take him to the psychiatric hospital, whereupon physical force had been used on him. in so far as the medical staff or the officers assisting them in the involuntary confinement had noticed in due course that [mr štefančič] began to vomit, they could have prevented him from inhaling gastric contents either by lifting his body into a vertical position or by turning him onto his side and mechanically clearing his oral cavity by using their fingers or an aspirator (if an aspirator was at the disposal of the medical staff). having regard to the agitation and aggressiveness of the patient, as well as the circumstances of the incident, such measures almost certainly could not have been applied.
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1967 respectively and live in mersin and diyarbakır. the applicants were civil servants for tax offices attached to the ministry of finance in mersin and diyarbakır. at the material time they were members of the local branch of the trade union büro emekçileri, which is affiliated to trades union confederation of public employees (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu-“kesk”). in march and april 2009, the applicants were informed of the disciplinary investigations that were initiated against them for having participated in a statement to the press organised by the trade union of which they were members and were invited to send their defence submissions. subsequently, the disciplinary sanctions of warning and reprimand were imposed on the applicants for their participation in the aforementioned trade union activities under section 125 of the law no. the applicants objected to these decisions and requested their annulment. in may 2009 the disciplinary board of the tax offices dismissed the applicants’ objections considering that the contested decisions were in accordance with law and there were no grounds for annulment.
the applicants were born in 1967, 1965, 1968, 1960 and 1958 respectively and live in i̇zmir. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. during their employment the applicants operated in “work and rest cycles”. they claimed compensation for the overtime hours they had worked beyond the legal working time for the previous five years of their employment. they referred to the labour code in force at the material time and to their collective agreement. both documents defined overtime as work in excess of the regular forty-five-hour working week and provided for remuneration for such work at one and a half times the regular hourly rate. on 1 november 2003 the applicants instituted new proceedings against their employer before the i̇zmir labour court and requested further remuneration for work done on weekends and public holidays and compensation for annual leave that they had not taken. they also submitted that the deduction of three hours of rest per day was not based on fact but was an assumption by the expert. in submissions of 22 july 2004, the defendant employer raised objections to the expert report and also argued that the timekeeping documents could not be relied on as they were unofficial copies. the i̇zmir labour court asked the expert to supplement his report with findings concerning the parties’ objections. on 4 july 2005, the expert submitted a supplement to his report, in which he corrected his findings concerning the rest periods in the light of the applicants’ objection and calculated the hours they had worked as twenty-four in the course of a twenty-four-hour shift. it rejected their claims for pay for weekend and public holiday work and for unused annual leave. both parties appealed to the court of cassation. on 26 may 2008 the i̇zmir labour court awarded the applicants compensation for overtime as determined in the revised expert report. on 25 january 2010 the applicants appealed against the decision and maintained that the fact that they had worked continuously for twenty-four hours had already been confirmed by the legal records of the ministry of labour, both parties’ witness statements and other evidence in the file, including the expert reports overturned by the court of cassation.
the applicants are serving either life sentences or whole-life sentences in different prisons in bulgaria. the applicant is currently serving a whole-life imprisonment sentence in belene prison. the cell was humid, badly heated during the winter and deprived of ventilation during the summer. the food was insufficient in quantity and of poor quality. he was detained in the high-security wing of this prison, alone in a cell. according to the applicant, its floor was partially made of bare cement and there was no sports equipment there. the government submitted that the applicant had been serving his sentence under the “special regime” in bobov dol prison between 5 february 2002 and 19 april 2007 when his regime had been changed to “severe”. the government submitted that the applicant had been kept in a permanently locked up cell in bobov dol prison, in strict compliance with the relevant legal provisions and in particular section 71(2) of the execution of punishments and pre-trial detention act. as of february 2016, they specified that the applicant had formally satisfied the conditions for being detained together with other prisoners but that the applicant had considered himself not ready for it. the applicant complained that his sentence had amounted, from the time of its imposition, to inhuman and degrading punishment, in breach of article 3 of the convention and that he did not have an effective remedy in this connection. the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment in a final judgment of the supreme court of cassation of 13 november 2008. the government clarified that this changed in 2012 when a toilet had been built in his cell. he was also allowed to use sanitary facilities outside of his cell five times a day, and to shower twice a week. the government pointed out that the applicant left his cell for an hour in the morning and for an hour in the afternoon every day for exercise and to spend time in the open air. furthermore, when various competitions had taken place in the prison, or there had been concerts or recitals, inmates serving life sentences had been offered a chance to attend them as spectators.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1964 respectively and live in linz. they have been living in a stable relationship for many years. on 21 february 2010 the applicants lodged an application to enter into a registered partnership under the registered partnership act (eingetragene partnerschaft-gesetz). citing, inter alia, articles 8 and 14 of the convention, they complained of discrimination based on their sex and their sexual orientation. the upper austrian regional governor (oberösterreichischer landeshauptmann) dismissed the appeal on 18 august 2010, arguing with reference to schalk and kopf v. austria (no. 30141/04, echr 2010) that as the contracting states were allowed to restrict access to marriage to different-sex couples, it would appear unreasonable not to allow them to reserve access to registered partnerships exclusively for same-sex couples. the applicants subsequently lodged complaints with both the administrative court and the constitutional court, arguing that marriage was not a suitable option for them, as it was substantially different from a registered partnership. in their view, a registered partnership was in many ways more modern and “lighter” than marriage. the applicants put forward several examples: the different statutory time-limit for divorce versus the time-limit for dissolution of a registered partnership in the event of an irretrievable breakdown (unheilbare zerrüttung) of the relationship; the alimony payment obligations following a divorce/dissolution where blame could be placed on one spouse/partner; the obligations conferred by the respective legal institutions, in particular as regards trust, faithfulness and contributions to the household; and the consequences of a declaration of the death of a spouse/partner. the applicants argued that the court’s considerations in schalk and kopf in respect of marriage were not applicable to the registered partnership, which was a new legal institution, introduced in the twenty-first century. it was therefore neither based on a long-standing discriminatory tradition and deep-rooted social connotations, nor aimed at possible procreation. on 22 september 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ complaint. if the court, in its judgment in the case of schalk and kopf, considers that the national provisions in the council of europe member states are diverse and range from allowing same-sex marriage to explicitly forbidding it, and concludes from this that, as matters stand, the question whether or not to allow same-sex marriage is left to regulation by domestic law (echr, case of schalk and kopf, §§ 60f), this must, in view of the small number of states providing for a registered partnership for different‑sex couples in addition to marriage, be even more valid for this question. on 27 february 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ complaint (see paragraph 9 above) as unfounded. that decision was served on the applicants’ counsel on 25 march 2013.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in turin. following the meeting, he was stripped of his clothes and led to a cell in the solitary confinement wing. he was subsequently given rationed quantities of food. the applicant was beaten by prison officers, often more than once per day. during the period he spent in solitary confinement he was only allowed outside the cell twice, once to shower and once for some outdoor time. on the same date the applicants joined the proceedings as civil parties. its findings may be summarised as follows. as to the establishment of the facts concerning the ill-treatment, the court found that the evidence gathered during the investigation and produced at the trial showed that the events had occurred in the manner described by the victims in their submissions during the trial. the prosecutor contended that the most appropriate offence for the purposes of classification of the conduct in question would have been aggravated ill‑treatment under article 572 of the italian criminal code ‒ as initially identified in the bill of indictment ‒ in conjunction with article 608 of the criminal code. by a judgment issued on 21 may 2012, and filed with the court registry on 27 july 2012, the court of cassation declared the public prosecutor’s application inadmissible. ’s potential knowledge of the decision at a later stage, as argued by the district court. at the court’s request, the government submitted extracts from the prison medical record of the second applicant between 26 november 2004 and 5 march 2005 and typed copies of his hospitalisation record of 16 december 2004. the record further indicates that another visual examination (also “behind bars”) took place on 15 december 2004. on 15 december 2004 the record shows that the applicant underwent a medical examination in the afternoon. as to the first applicant, no copy of the prison medical register had been submitted by the government, notwithstanding the court’s request for such information.
the applicant was born in 1949, he is a lawyer and lives in nicosia. the applicant was provided with a copy of the letter of complaint and was requested to send his comments within seven days. by a letter dated 7 september 2005 the applicant submitted his comments to the supreme court with regard to the allegations against him. the statements could not therefore provide the full picture. on 21 december 2005, upon completion of the investigation, the investigating judge submitted a report to the supreme court summarising his investigation and the evidence collected. this included two charges of misconduct, and details of the preparatory investigation by the investigating judge. following a request by the applicant’s lawyer, the scj also held on the same day that in view of the defence’s line of argument all the files of the proceedings in which the witnesses had sat as members of the idc, from the applicant’s appointment as president of the idc onwards, should be brought before it. further statements that related to pending proceedings and complaints that had previously been dealt with by the supreme court were removed from the charge sheet. it therefore called the applicant to put forward his defence. furthermore, the provisions of article 30 of our constitution, which are the equivalent to those of article 6 of the convention, are also applicable. the president and members of the supreme council of judicature did not put a single question to the witnesses who were listed on the charge sheet, or to those summoned on behalf of mr kamenos, which might have been construed as cross-examination for the purpose of contesting the witnesses’ allegations. on the contrary, the president and members of the supreme council of judicature asked very few questions, and they were solely for the purpose of clarification; special reference will be made to some of those questions at the appropriate stage. ...before referring to the evidence, it is useful if we outline the methodology which led to the taking of statements by the investigating officer. consequently, as is in any case self-evident, the object of the hearing is [to determine] whether, on the basis of the evidence of those ten witnesses, the charge has been substantiated as formulated. of course, the charge sheet does not extend to those cases and does not concern the issue of interventions as such ... the core of the charge is the conduct attributed to mr kamenos at the expense of lay members of the court, lawyers, litigants and witnesses, and it is in the light of such considerations that i shall go on to examine the evidence adduced.”
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in zujūnai. on 15 april 1993 the applicant purchased a total of 0.2 hectares of land from the state. nevertheless, the plot of land assigned to the applicant was approved by the county’s chief architect. on 11 april 2008 the vilnius district court held that the land had been sold to the applicant in breach of the provisions of domestic law (see paragraph 65 below). however, twenty-five people altogether, including the applicant, had been allocated additional plots at the time (see paragraph 7 above), but the prosecutor had only found a breach of the public interest in the applicant’s case. the court also found that when the applicant had been allocated the first plot of land (see paragraph 6 above), there had been no other plots demarcated and the land in front of his had been vacant. the court stated that the mechanism of allocating the additional plot to the applicant had been breached, but that he was a bona fide owner. the prosecutor general lodged an appeal on points of law. reopening proceedings would thus lead to a repeated assessment of the facts and would be contrary to the domestic law and the main purpose of reopening proceedings. there was no information that the prosecutor general had lodged an appeal on points of law against the vilnius regional court’s decision (see paragraph 17 above). on 26 april 2013 the vilnius district court rejected the applicant’s request to suspend execution, holding that his arguments did not constitute sufficient grounds. it held that his argument that new circumstances had arisen was unfounded. furthermore, the fact that the plan had not been registered was not important to the examination of the case. in february 2017 the applicant requested that the authorities rent the plot to him. such objects did not include temporary constructions, engineering systems, buildings that did not have a clear functional dependency or use, or other constructions designated as serving as dependencies of a main construction.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bacău. the envelopes, sent abroad by registered post sometime between 11 april and 13 may 2003, had been returned unopened as the intended recipients had failed to collect them. 143,bearing in mind the urgency and the well-foundedness [of the measure] under article 98 § 12 of the ccpordersthat the envelopes ... be taken by police officers ...items which are of no relevance to the case shall be returned.” on 18 february 2005 the prosecutor started criminal investigations in the matter against unidentified perpetrators. the measure was authorised by the bacău county court on 23 february 2005. he denied any involvement in drug trafficking. on 27 february 2007 the applicant was acquitted. the county court excluded the prosecution’s main evidence, considering that the seized envelopes had been obtained unlawfully as the prosecutor had failed to ask the court to approve the measure. as for the remaining evidence in the file, it noted that the audio and video-recordings were not relevant for the accusations brought against the applicant and that the witnesses were unreliable as they had changed their statements in court. on 18 september 2007 the bacău court of appeal upheld the above judgment. it found that the lower courts had erred when they had set aside the evidence obtained from the seized correspondence. the decision of the high court of cassation and justice was final. it also relied on transcripts of the audio and video-surveillance in the post office and of the applicant’s telephone; statements by seven pharmacists that they had sold the medicine in question to the applicant without prescription; and testimony by two doctors who had been asked by the applicant or pharmacists to write prescriptions to cover up for the medicine sold without prescription. he also contested the manner in which one of the postal workers had been interviewed by the prosecutor (see paragraph 21 above). he did not contest the remaining evidence in the file.
the first applicant was born in 1955 and lives in belgrade, serbia. the second applicant is a privately owned company, founded by the first applicant in 1990, with its registered seat in ilijaš - podlugovi, bosnia and herzegovina. on 19 december 2001 the second applicant requested a licence to build a petrol station on the main highway in bosnia and herzegovina. the second applicant appealed on 31 october 2002. on 28 february 2003 the federal ministry upheld that decision. on 25 august 2005 and 24 august 2006 the second applicant urged the supreme court to expedite the proceedings. on 16 august 2007 the directorate rejected the second applicant’s request. on 30 august 2007 the second applicant appealed. on 8 november 2007 the second applicant complained to the administrative inspectorate of the federal ministry of justice about the inaction of the administration. on 12 november 2007 the federal ministry upheld the decision of 16 august 2007 (see paragraph 13 above). the decision was served on the second applicant on 18 april 2008. on 30 may 2008 the second applicant initiated proceedings for judicial review with the supreme court seeking it to quash the decisions of 16 august 2007 and 12 november 2007 (see paragraphs 13 and 15 above). on 27 november 2009 the mostar cantonal court rejected the application for judicial review. on 6 september 2010 the second applicant lodged a constitutional appeal before the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”) complaining, notably, about the length of the above administrative proceedings. it noted that the relevant proceedings had lasted eight years and five months in total, that seven different decisions had been rendered by the competent authorities and that, therefore, the length of the proceedings had not been excessive.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in dublin, ireland. romanian custom officers stopped the bus, got on and started searching the passengers. an offence report drafted by the officer stated that the applicant had failed to declare two silver ingots of 1 kg each and had thereby breached the provisions of article 653 (a) of the customs regulations (see paragraph 12 below). he explained that he had legally acquired the two ingots, which had a value of eur 500. he had kept them on him in order to prevent them being stolen during the bus trip and not to elude customs. on 26 january 2009 the huşi district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint as ill-founded. based on the elements in the case file, the court observed that the customs officer had asked the applicant whether he had anything to declare and the applicant had said no. the relevant provisions of the romanian customs regulations, as approved by government decision no. 707/2006, are as follows:article 156“(1) a written customs declaration shall be submitted for the following goods:....c) objects made of precious metals, with or without precious stones, which exceed the purposes of personal use as set forth in legal provisions;(2) for the goods listed in paragraph (1) travellers shall submit the written customs declaration on standard forms which are made available free of charge, upon request, by customs offices.” 2/2001 on the legal system concerning offences ...” 13. the relevant provisions of government ordinance no. 2/2001 on the legal system concerning offences in force at the relevant time are as follows:article 5“(1) offences may be punished with principal and complementary sanctions. (5) the sanction must be proportionate to the degree of social danger of the offence committed. 1214/2007 amending annex i to council regulation (eec) no. 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff entered into force on 1 january 2008 and from that date was directly applicable in all member states.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in vilnius. was apprehended in ukraine and subsequently extradited to the lithuanian authorities. the criminal case was transferred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits. had addressed to the applicant at some point in 1993. the court changed its legal classification. had intended to kill the applicant or any of the passers-by (see paragraph 8 above). despite the fact that he had not been the accused in that case and had not been able to defend himself. ’s appeal contesting his guilt in respect of both charges. as can be seen from the case file, on 22 december 2007 [the applicant] was notified that he was suspected of having organised the murder of r.ž. on 28 february 2013 the supreme court dismissed the appeals. the case was transferred to the vilnius regional court for examination on the merits. avoid criminal responsibility (see paragraph 16 above). ’s letter had been examined in the previous criminal proceedings which had been concluded by a final court judgment (see paragraphs 18, 23 and 26 above), and the courts in the proceedings against the applicant should have followed that assessment. ’s letter, it stated that the courts in the criminal proceedings against d.a. had not examined the applicant’s actions in relation to the murder of r.ž.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in celje. he had been a professional truck driver until he became unable to work due to epilepsy. he was found to have a right to be reassigned to a suitable position of employment where he and others would not be at risk because of his condition, with (retroactive) effect from 14 august 2002. on 21 february 2005 the celje regional unit of the pension and disability insurance institute of slovenia (hereinafter “the regional zpiz”) granted the applicant a so-called “allowance for the period of waiting to be reassigned to or employed in a different appropriate position of employment” (hereinafter “waiting period allowance”) from 8 october 2004. subsequently, on 28 june 2011 it adopted a decision granting him a disability allowance (nadomestilo za invalidnost) from 24 february 2011 onwards. the regional zpiz noted in its decision that the applicant had not been insured under the compulsory insurance scheme at the onset of his disability, but had been registered as unemployed on 3 march 2003 within thirty days of the final decision on his disability, as required by section 97 of the 1999 act. it was established that his capacity to work had in fact further reduced, even though the category (iii) of his disability remained unchanged. he reiterated that the disability allowance granted to him under the 1999 act violated his acquired rights and that instead of increasing his benefit it reduced it by half, which was unlawful and unconstitutional. on 26 march 2012 the celje labour and social court dismissed the applicant’s claim. in cases where a fresh assessment was made the 1999 act was to be applied. instead, under section 94, it provided for the disability allowance (see paragraph 25 below) which had been correctly granted to the applicant. on 25 april 2012 the applicant appealed against the judgment, repeating the complaints he had made before the first-instance court and alleging that he ought to have been informed of the consequences of a request for a reassessment of his disability. if that had been the case, he would have “forbidden” his doctor from making such a request. in such a situation, section 397(3) of the 1999 act provided that the applicant acquired rights under the act. in that connection, he alleged that the higher labour and social court’s view that the reduction did not interfere with his acquired rights or constitute a violation of his constitutional right to social security was arbitrary, as the court had provided no reasoning for that conclusion.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in gyöngyöspata. the applicant submitted that shortly afterwards, for about twenty minutes, he had been ill-treated by two police officers; at about 4.30 a.m. the two officers had returned and had continued hitting and kicking him for another thirty minutes or so. in the applicant’s account of the events, altogether six officers and two security guards took part in the ill-treatment, with the apparent intention of extracting his confession to further offences. one of them had said that they would not mind if he died – there would just be one gypsy less. again, references were allegedly made to the applicant being a roma. herself did not produce a medical report on the premises. on the same evening the applicant went to the emergency room of bugát pál hospital in gyöngyös. according to the certificate, the applicant had numerous contusions that had been inflicted by other persons. nevertheless, he finally identified eight persons as the perpetrators – six police officers (t.b., and two security guards employed by the police department (p.g. mivel a kényszerítő eszköz alkalmazására írt rendőri jelentés adatai szerint a körzeti megbízott panasz és sérülésmentesen adta át nevezettet az ügyeletes tisztnek, a sérülések valószínűsíthetően ezen időpontot követően keletkeztek.” the prosecutor was satisfied that the investigation had been adequate and comprehensive, and that the obtaining of further evidence – in particular, by questioning the applicant’s brother and friend, who were present at his release – was superfluous. this decision was served on the applicant on 23 january 2012. the court also emphasised that, contrary to the statements of the applicant, the two officers could not have been continuously present in the gyöngyös police department because between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. they had been carrying out some onsite inspections in another town, gyöngyöspata. on 28 november 2012 the eger high court acquitted the officers for want of sufficient evidence.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in co. roscommon. the sale took the form of two agreements. she reported this to homebond in september 2001. according to the judgment, these sums were to be assessed at a future date. according to the applicant, in the years 2005-2008 her solicitors considered it more effective to engage principally with the fourth defendant, homebond, in light of the guarantee on the house. homebond made a proposal to the applicant in june 2006 to carry out remedial work on the house. on 20 july 2009 the high court struck out the applicant’s motion for a judgment in default of defence. on 13 october 2010 the applicant again gave notice of her intention to proceed. the case was not heard as a single action. only the fourth and fifth defendants appeared (the latter only briefly) at the hearing that commenced on 29 january 2013. the first three defendants, although given notice of the hearing, were not represented at it. the high court’s ruling, given on 20 march 2013, therefore only considered the claims against homebond and mr q. the judge ruled that homebond was liable to the applicant under the terms of the guarantee. homebond sought to appeal the judgment and order against it. the applicant filed her submissions the following week. on 24 january 2014 the supreme court again refused an application from the defendants to stay the judgment of the high court.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in moscow. on 27 august 2002 the applicant brought civil proceedings against the administration of the mirninskiy ulus of the sakha (yakutiya) republic (“the administration”), a private person s., her husband b., and a private company a. claiming a title to a flat, damages, and s.’s eviction from the flat. on 3 march 2003 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic quashed the judgment on appeal and returned the case for a fresh examination, as the lower court had failed to address issues related s.’s property rights. on 29 july 2003 the district court ordered an expert examination of the flat in order to determine its market value. on 14 august 2003 the court proceedings resumed. in particular, the claim for compensation for the allegedly stolen property was dismissed as unfounded. on 11 june 2004, upon the applicant’s request, the bailiffs initiated the enforcement proceedings. on 27 august 2004 the district court granted the administration’s request for suspension of the enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003 until 15 january 2005 due to financial difficulties encountered by the debtor. on 15 november 2004 the applicant’s appeal against the above decision was dismissed. on 21 december 2005 the applicant submitted the amended claims. on 30 april 2008 the district court dismissed the action as unfounded. the court explained that the applicant had other remedies to use under the civil law in order to protect his property rights. in particular, he could claim that an equivalent apartment or a compensation be provided to him. in the meantime, the applicant sued the administration for statutory interest for the delay in enforcement of the judgment of 29 august 2003. on 7 february 2007 the district court discontinued the proceedings as the judgment of 29 august 2003 had been quashed and a new decision in the case had not yet been adopted.
the applicants were born in 1949 and 1923 respectively and lived in bucharest, where the first applicant still lives. the applicants were co-owners of two adjacent plots of land in montenegro. on 13 june 2009, during a visit to the plots, the first applicant noticed a metal fence built partly on their property. the fence divided the two plots of land and made it impossible for them to access one plot from the other. it appears that the fence had been erected some time in february 2009. on 15 july 2009 the applicants, who had legal representation, instituted civil proceedings for trespass (radi smetanja posjeda) against b.ć., on 27 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor ruled in favour of the applicants and ordered b.ć. to remove the fence and pay the applicants 1,435 euros (eur) in respect of legal costs. the court was satisfied that the applicants had lodged their claim in time, given that the deadline for initiating proceedings was 30 days from the day on which they had noticed the trespass, taking into account that 13 and 14 july were national holidays. in doing so the court relied on section 77 of property act (see paragraph 14 below). on 20 december 2011 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica, ruling on an appeal lodged by b.ć., quashed the previous judgment and rejected the applicants’ claim (tužba se odbacuje) as submitted out of time. the court held that 13 and 14 july were indeed national holidays when the courts did not sit. it considered, however, that the 30-day period within which the applicants could institute proceedings was mandatory “[in which case] there could be no shifting of the time-limit when its last day fell on a day when the courts [did] not sit”. the time-limit had therefore expired on 13 july 2009, and the applicants had not filed their claim until 15 july 2009.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in omsk. the applicant was deputy head of the omsk regional department for the execution of sentences. on 22 august 2002 the novosibirsk regional court authorised for 180 days the interception and recording of the applicant’s telephone conversations, interception of postal communications and the collection of data from technical channels of communication. given that [the applicant’s] actions contain elements of criminal offences under article 290 § 4 of the criminal code [bribe-taking], classified as a serious offence, and under article 285 § 1 of the criminal code [abuse of power], it is necessary to perform a combination of operational-search measures (interception and recording of telephone conversations, monitoring of correspondence and collection of data from technical channels of communication) in order to collect evidence of his criminal activities, and to receive information about the bribe‑givers and the payment mechanisms used.” the government did not submit a copy of that decision. charges of bribe-taking or abuse of power have never been brought against the applicant. when studying the criminal case file, the applicant learnt for the first time that his telephone conversations had been recorded and his other communications monitored. he also learnt that a recording of his telephone conversation with ms l., a sister of a convict detained in a penal institution under his supervision, formed the basis for the charge of disclosure of state secrets. during the conversation, which had taken place on 17 october 2002, the applicant had warned ms l. that her relative was under covert surveillance and that there were listening devices hidden in his cell. at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. it found that the recording was admissible as evidence as it had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. the applicant was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. in his appeal submissions the applicant complained, in particular, of a violation of his right to respect for his private life. he argued that the interception of his communications had been unlawful and unjustified, and that the recording of his conversation with ms l. was inadmissible as evidence. on 21 june 2005 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). between 21 and 27 december 1989 many people including the applicants and/or their close relatives involved in this case took part in the anti-communist demonstrations in bucharest, timișoara, brașov, reșița and craiova which led to the fall of the communist regime. they were injured or killed by gunfire during the demonstrations. in 1990 following the overthrow of the communist regime, the military prosecutor’s office opened investigations into the armed crackdown on the demonstrations. the main criminal investigation into the use of violence, particularly against civilian demonstrators, during the events of december 1989 in bucharest and other cities has been contained in file no. in a number of cases concerning events in bucharest and craiova, the prosecutor decided not to initiate a criminal investigation or to discontinue the proceedings. those decisions were taken between 1990 and 2007. it results from the documents submitted by the parties that, after the adoption of those decisions, the prosecutor continued to examine the circumstances of these cases in the main criminal investigation – object of file no. to date, the main criminal investigation appears to be still ongoing. the most important procedural steps were summarised in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and alecu and others v. romania, nos. 56838/08 and 80 others, §§ 7-13, 27 january 2015. following the entry into force of the new code of criminal procedure in february 2014, jurisdiction over the case was relinquished in favour of the military prosecutor’s office. it also found that some of the facts which had been investigated could not be classified as criminal offences and that some of them were res judicata. 43626/13 and 69 others, § 15, 12 april 2016).
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kópavogur. at the material time he was a well-known person in iceland who for years had published articles, blogs and books and appeared in films, on television and other media, under pseudonyms. in november 2011, an 18-year-old woman reported to the police that the applicant and his girlfriend had raped her. when asked about his complaints against the girl for allegedly wrongful accusations, he stated again that he was not seeking revenge against those who had reported him to the police, but that it was clear that they had had ulterior motives. on 23 november 2012 the newspaper vísir published an online article about x’s post, along with the altered picture and an interview with the applicant. by email the same day, x’s lawyer submitted that x had not distributed the picture online; it had been posted for a closed group of friends on instagram and others had distributed it. the court stated, inter alia, that the applicant enjoyed the personal protection afforded by law, irrespective of which of his pseudonyms he was using. he submitted further documents to support his argument. furthermore, the judgment contained the following reasons:“[x] claims that his act of uploading the altered picture onto the picture-sharing application in question did not constitute the publication of the picture within the meaning of article 236(2) of the penal code no 19/1940, as he had believed that only a limited number of people would have access to it. the appealed judgment describes in detail that, before the complaints of sexual offences against him as described above had been reported, [the applicant] had been a well-known person, not least for his performance in public under the names of gillz or gillzenegger, the names under which he wrote on internet, published books and pictures and presented himself in the media. the [applicant] has often justified such conduct by stating that the material had been meant in jest and that those who criticised it lacked a sense of humour. in the same manner, he must take responsibility for the material he produces, irrespective of what name he chooses to use. the ruling of the supreme court on 29 january 2009 in case no 321/2008. if the altered picture and the comment ‘fuck you rapist bastard’ are taken as a whole – as the parties agree should be the case – the supreme court agrees with the district court that this was a case of invective on the part of [x] against the [applicant] in a ruthless public debate, which the latter, as stated previously, had instigated. the minority concluded that, considering that the criminal investigation had ended with the case against the applicant being dismissed, and even if the applicant was a public person who had expressed himself in a controversial way in public, he should not have to tolerate this kind of comment.
between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis. considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation. on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,100,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,800,000 for non‑pecuniary damage. no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit. some judgments in respect of several applicants remained unenforced (see “enforcement status” in the appendix). on different dates in 2012 and 2013 the domestic courts granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal essentially on the ground that the defendant authority had not been served with the impugned judgments. subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law. the applicants were ordered to repay the sums received under the judgments. the applicants lodged a supervisory review application. there is no indication that they requested the enforcement proceedings to be suspended pending the examination of their supervisory review application. between june and august 2013 the presidium of the regional supreme court partially quashed the appeal judgments as regards the applicants’ obligation to reimburse the sums paid.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in belgrade. on 15 june 2004 the applicant was injured in a traffic accident. an investigation into this incident was initiated in november 2004 and terminated in may 2005, with no criminal charges being brought. on 10 june 2005 the applicant lodged a civil claim for non-pecuniary damages with the second municipal court in belgrade against the belgrade city’s transportation company (gradsko saobraċajno preduzeċe beograd). on 27 december 2007 the second municipal court ruled in the applicant’s favour. on 3 july 2008 the district court quashed the decision and remitted the case to the first instance. on 30 september 2010 the court of appeals in belgrade quashed the decision and remitted the case to the court of first instance for a re-trial. in the meantime, on 22 december 2009, the applicant lodged an appeal with the constitutional court complaining under article 32 of the constitution (a provision which corresponds to article 6 of the convention) about the overall fairness of domestic proceedings and their length. the constitutional court’s decision was rendered on 4 november 2010. no violation in respect of the applicant’s complaints was found. the case was then sent to the high court in belgrade. on 20 june 2013 the high court adopted a partial judgment against which the applicant and the defendant appealed to the court of appeals in belgrade. on 6 june 2014 the court of appeals partly quashed the impugned judgment. it would appear that the case is still pending before the high court. it would appear from the facts of the case that the constitutional court has not yet responded.
the applicants were born in 1957, 1961 and 1980 respectively and live in svetlograd, stavropol region. the first and second applicants are husband and wife. the police officers checked his documents, searched his car and left. the first applicant approached the officers. the officer in charge identified himself as ye. they claimed that they had ordered the first applicant to pull over because they had suspected that he had been driving under the influence of alcohol. the first applicant had refused to comply and had verbally insulted them demonstrating obscene hand gestures. it appears that his decision was quashed on a later date. on 9 september 2003 the first applicant underwent another forensic medical examination. each time a superior prosecutor or a court quashed those decisions considering the investigator’s findings incomplete and unsubstantiated and ordering further inquiry into the first applicant’s allegations. on 6 march 2006 the investigator concluded that there was no evidence showing that the first applicant’s injuries had been caused by the police officers and that he was unable to establish the real perpetrator. on 3 april 2006 the district prosecutor partly accepted the first applicant’s complaint and resumed the investigation. he also considered that the first applicant had willfully made false accusations against the police officers and should be held liable for his actions. he transmitted the materials to the head of the district investigative committee. on 30 september 2004, at approximately 11.00 p.m., the applicants, suspecting that their neighbour had committed a number of thefts and intended to steal their property, beat him up, broke into his car, took the documents for the car and refused to return them until the arrival of a police patrol car.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ivanovo. at the relevant time the applicant was a member of the ivanovo region electoral commission. on 23 october 2003 a deputy head of the ivanovo region department of internal affairs ordered audio-visual “surveillance” (“наблюдение”) of the applicant’s office. the parties did not submit a copy of that decision. the surveillance was carried out from 27 october to 5 november 2003 by means of a hidden camera. the applicant was subsequently charged with abuse of power, an offence under article 285 of the criminal code. while studying the criminal case file he discovered that it contained video recordings of him talking on the telephone in his office. at the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. he claimed, in particular, that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence as they had been obtained unlawfully without prior judicial authorisation. he also challenged the authenticity of the recordings. on 27 september 2004 the leninskiy district court of ivanovo convicted the applicant of abuse of power and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment, suspended for two years. the court relied on statements by several witnesses, physical evidence, expert reports and the video recordings of the applicant’s telephone conversations. it found that the video recordings were authentic and that they had been obtained in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. he reiterated, in particular, his argument that the video recordings were inadmissible as evidence. on 12 november 2004 the ivanovo regional court upheld the conviction on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1952 and lives in sarajevo. in 1999 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against his employer, the local police, seeking his reinstatement and damages. the first-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo municipal court on 17 april 2006. the second-instance judgment was rendered by the sarajevo cantonal court on 27 march 2008. the third-instance judgment was rendered by the supreme court of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina on 26 january 2010. on 19 april 2010 the applicant filed a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina complaining under article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 1 about the outcome and length of his labour dispute. on 10 april 2013 the constitutional court found a breach of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time and rejected the remainder of the case.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in the krasnoyarsk region. at the material time the applicant was a police officer with the economic crimes department of the department of the interior of the krasnoyarsk region. mr p. gave the internal security department a recording he had made of his telephone conversation with the applicant earlier the same day. during that conversation the applicant had asked mr p. to bring him money before 2 august 2008. at the request of the police officer the money must be delivered in the period from 31 july to 2 august 2008; the exact time and place for delivering the money is to be agreed in advance by telephone [telephone number] given by [the applicant]. on 1 august 2008 the acting head of the internal security department sent a letter to the deputy president of the tsentralnyy district court of krasnoyarsk, informing her that on 31 july and 1 august 2008 the applicant’s telephone had been tapped in accordance with the urgent procedure provided for by section 8(3) of the osaa. immediately after mr p. had left, the applicant was arrested by the police, his car was searched and the money was seized. identical statements were made by the investigator in his decisions of 7 november and 12 december 2008 and 1 april 2009 rejecting various complaints lodged by the applicant. interception of the applicant’s telephone communications had been ordered by the head of the internal security department because at the time there had been sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant was involved in a serious criminal offence punishable under article 290 § 2 of the russian criminal code. on 7 december 2009 the tsentralnyy district court declared the audio and video recordings admissible as evidence. in the court’s opinion, for ordering operational-search measures it is sufficient that there be some elements of a criminal offence, rather than the entire corpus delicti, permitting [the police] to make a preliminary rather than definitive classification of the offence ...the court is not convinced by [the applicant’s] arguments that the interception of his telephone communications was unlawful because the case file does not contain a judicial decision authorising this operational-search measure. the operational-search measure against [the applicant] was carried out in conditions of urgency. at the same time it notes that a judge was informed about the operational-search measures within twenty-four hours and the measures were discontinued within forty-eight hours of their commencement, as required by section 8(3) of the osaa. no judicial refusal of authorisation was received. he also contested the authenticity of the recordings.
on 12 april 2002 the local police sent to the local investigations committee audio recordings of telephone conversations between the applicant and several persons, and video recordings of their meetings in a flat in novgorod. the applicant learned about the audio and video recordings on an unspecified date while studying the criminal case file. the hearing of 16 september 2002 was adjourned until 23 september 2002 because the applicant’s counsel was in hospital and because the prosecution witnesses did not appear. on 29 october 2004, while studying the criminal case file, the applicant discovered that it contained audio recordings of his telephone conversations during the period from november 2003 to march 2004. during the trial the applicant pleaded not guilty. he argued, in particular, that the audio and video recordings were inadmissible as evidence because the case file did not contain a copy of the judicial authorisation. a copy of the authorisation had not been included in the case file because it was confidential. on 14 july 2006 the vladimir regional court upheld the detention order on appeal. on 3 november 2006 the frunzenskiy district court extended the applicant’s detention until 5 january 2007. the applicant’s detention was further extended on several more occasions. m was equipped with seven sleeping places and accommodated up to eight inmates. on 28 and 29 september 2006 the applicant was transported by rail between remand prison iz-76/1 and remand prison iz-43/1 from yaroslavl to kirov. on the same day the investigator refused his request. the vladimir regional court’s decisions of 28 may and 2 june 2004 authorising interception of the applicant’s telephone communications were stored by the local police. relying on section 12 of the operational-search activities act (see paragraph 49 below), the court held that the judicial decision authorising operational-search measures and the material that served as a basis for that decision were to be held in the exclusive possession of the state agency performing such measures.
between 1986 and 1987 the applicants took part in the clean-up operation at the chernobyl nuclear disaster site. they were subsequently registered disabled and became entitled to various social benefits and compensation paid on a regular basis. considering these benefits insufficient, the applicants together with other 482 people, sued the russian ministry of finance for additional compensation corresponding to non-pecuniary damage suffered as a result of their participation in the operation. on different dates in january and april 2011 the nalchik town court of kabardino-balkaria (“the town court”) allowed their claims in part and awarded each claimant, including the applicants, compensation ranging between 1,200,000 russian roubles (rub) and rub 1,600,000 for non‑pecuniary damage. no appeals were lodged against these judgments within the statutory ten-day time-limit. the judgments became final but have never been executed. on different dates the town court granted the defendant authority’s request to extend the time-limit for appeal on the grounds that the authorities had not received a copy of the judgment in due course. subsequently the regional supreme court quashed the judgments delivered in the applicants’ favour on the grounds that they had been based on retrospective application of the law.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in murmansk. the applicant] is the leader of the gang. [ he should therefore be called as a witness in the criminal proceedings against the applicant. on 11 october 2004 the criminal case against the applicant and his accomplices was transferred to the murmansk regional court for trial. a preliminary hearing was held on 21 and 22 october 2004. the investigator had not been informed about that agreement. on 6 june 2005 the oktyabrskiy district court dismissed that complaint as inadmissible, finding that it could not be examined once the investigation had been completed. having analysed the transcripts of the applicant’s telephone conversations with g., it held as follows:“the lawyer had not been formally admitted to provide legal assistance to [the applicant] at the time [when the interception had taken place]. according to the applicant, the extension of his detention had been based solely on the gravity of the charges against him. on 11 august, 9 november and 15 december 2005 and 30 march 2006 the supreme court upheld the above extension orders on appeal, referring to the gravity of the charges and the risks of the applicant absconding or putting pressure on witnesses. iz-35/2 in vologda from 12 to 17 october 2006; and in remand prison no. iz-35/2 in vologda, and selected pages from the prison population register for the period of detention in remand prison no. the space available to him throughout the detention period had been below the domestic standards. there had been a table measuring 1 m by 0.3 m but no benches or chairs to sit on. when the applicant was transferred from moscow to murmansk between 24 january and 9 february 2007, he was transported first alone in the railway compartment, then from st petersburg onwards he was transported with other inmates, none of whom were suffering from tuberculosis.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the third applicant is the fourth applicant’s mother. the applicants joined the criminal proceedings concerning the accident as victims. the report stated that the applicants had been informed of their rights under the settlement procedure and set out the consequences of applying the settlement procedure. on 14 february 2011 the harju county court committed j. for trial and scheduled a hearing for 7 march 2011. j., his counsel and the prosecutor were summoned to appear at the court hearing. the applicants, however, were not summoned. the harju county court received their submission on 7 march 2011. according to the court record, the trial judge disclosed the applicants’ claim for reimbursement of their legal costs. the applicants lodged an appeal against that judgment. they complained that they had not been allowed to attend the court hearing of 7 march 2011 and that the court had left their claim for reimbursement of the legal costs undecided. the report stated that j. had wanted to submit the out-of-court settlement agreement to the judge in order to prove that it covered all the relevant damages. it referred to article 243 of the ccrp, under which the victim was not entitled to revoke his or her consent to the application of the settlement procedure, and to article 246 of the code, which provided that the victim did not have to be summoned to a court hearing in settlement proceedings (see paragraphs 28 and 29 below). although the court of appeal’s decision stated that it was final and not amenable to appeal, the applicants’ counsel nevertheless challenged it before the supreme court. by a decision of 3 october 2011 in case no.
he travelled to tajikistan on a number of occasions to visit his parents for short periods of time. on 6 may 2011 the tajik authorities ordered his pre-trial detention. on 3 november 2013 the applicant was arrested in moscow and detained. the request included assurances regarding his proper treatment, which were formulated in standard terms. on 12 december 2013 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 may 2014. an appeal by the applicant of 16 december 2013 was dismissed by the moscow city court (“the city court”) on 3 february 2014. on 29 april 2014 the district court again extended the applicant’s detention until 3 august 2014. an appeal by the applicant of 5 may 2014 was dismissed by the city court on 23 july 2014. on 13 october 2014, immediately after his release, the applicant was rearrested for violating migration regulations. on 14 october 2014 the district court found the applicant guilty of violating migration regulations, fined him and ordered his administrative removal. the above judgment was upheld on appeal by the city court on 24 october 2014. claims by the applicant under article 3 of the convention were dismissed with reference to the district court’s assessment of the case, which took into consideration “...the nature of the administrative offence, the character of the accused [who was criminally convicted in russia]... the length of his stay in russia and other circumstances of the case”. on 18 december 2013 the applicant lodged a request for refugee status, referring to persecution in tajikistan and a real risk of ill-treatment. on 15 september 2014 his request was refused by a final administrative decision of the migration authorities. the applicant challenged that decision in the courts, referring, inter alia, to the risk of ill‑treatment.
the first applicant was born in 1969 and lives in illertissen. the second applicant was born in 1989 and lives in harburg. on 9 december 2007 both applicants went to a football match in munich. the cordon was lifted after around fifteen minutes. according to the government the blockade was lifted due to the aggressive behaviour of some of the spectators and the pressure applied to the police cordon. the supporters’ conduct resulted in the arrest of one supporter and two police officers sustained minor injuries. the government furthermore challenged the accounts of the applicants and submitted that there was no credible evidence that the applicants had deliberately been hit or harmed by police officers and that the injuries had been a result of the police operation. in an article of 18 december 2007 a spokesperson of the police commented on the operation and stated that the alleged assaults by police officers would be investigated. he also submitted a medical certificate confirming a bleeding laceration on his head. the certificate was issued at 12.05 a.m. on 10 december 2007. the officer in charge interviewed a total of twenty witnesses, including the applicants, the officer in charge of the munich riot control unit and the squad leaders of the deployed squads of the 2nd and 3rd munich riot control units. on 10 september 2008 the competent public prosecutor discontinued the investigation. however, he concluded that the investigation had not led to a situation where concrete acts of violence could be related to specific police officers and it could not be ascertained either whether the use of force had been justified. on 20 august 2009 the applicants appealed and pointed out that the members of the deployed squads had still not been questioned and that the inspected videos were fragmentary, but nonetheless contradicted certain parts of the statements made by the squad leaders. the court also emphasised that the public prosecutor’s office had been the responsible authority for the investigation and thereby “master of the proceedings” (herr des verfahrens).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in riga. the next day civil proceedings were instituted in that connection. the applicant disagreed; she argued that she did not owe any money to the plaintiff – they had not concluded an agreement for maintenance services and she was free to choose another service provider. on 30 december 2005 a judge of the riga city kurzeme district court (rīgas pilsētas kurzemes rajona tiesa – hereinafter “the city court”) scheduled the first hearing to take place on 21 april 2006. on 31 january 2007 the plaintiff increased the amount of the claim to lvl 426 (approximately eur 606) and submitted more documents. the applicant’s representative requested that more detailed information be provided in this connection. the application was granted and the next hearing was scheduled for 14 february 2008. on 14 february 2008 the applicant’s representative pleaded the case. the plaintiff did not have all the relevant documents at hand and thus requested time to submit additional information. the city court ordered the plaintiff to submit the specific documents and scheduled the next hearing for 17 april 2008. on 17 april 2008 the plaintiff submitted the relevant documents and the applicant’s representative applied to have the hearing postponed to examine them. on 6 november 2008 the city court dismissed the plaintiff’s claim against the applicant as unsubstantiated – the plaintiff had not proved that the expenses had actually been incurred and that they had duly reflected the services provided. on 27 november 2008 the plaintiff appealed against the judgment. the first hearing before the regional court was held on 13 september 2010. the applicant had selectively paid some bills, but not all of them.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in manisa. 14350/05 and 2 others, § 16, 17 november 2015 for further details regarding that earthquake). they denied all accusations in respect of the collapse of the building. it was also noted that the metal brackets had not been properly fastened to the girders. in respect of the deaths caused by the collapse of the building in question on 17 august 1999. on this basis, the experts concluded that h.e. bore 25% and 37.5% responsibility for the collapse of the building. on 7 june 2005 the düzce assize court convicted h.e., as charged, and sentenced each of them, once again, to 10 months’ imprisonment and a fine. relying on the findings of the later expert report as regards the responsibility of the municipal officials for the collapse of the building, it also decided that a criminal complaint should be filed against the relevant officials with the düzce public prosecutor’s office. on 5 december 2005 the court of cassation quashed the judgment for the third time. 5237) which had entered into force on 1 june 2005. the building had, moreover, been illegally extended after its construction. they had also failed to carry out a soil survey in the area and to identify the potential “disaster zones” in the event of an earthquake, with a view to limiting the height of buildings in such areas. on 14 september 2007 the applicant and his family received a total of try 11,371.80 (approximately 6,455 euros (eur) at the material time) from the municipality as compensation.
by five judgments of the travnik municipal court (“the municipal court”) of 5 march 2009, 18 january 2012, 31 march 2010, 30 april 2012 and 13 june 2011, which became final on 17 june 2010, 13 february 2012, 1 september 2010, 12 march 2013 and 21 july 2011, respectively, the central bosnia canton (srednjobosanski kanton, “the cb canton”; one of the ten cantons of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicants various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs. the writs of execution issued by the municipal court on 23 september 2010, 14 june 2012, 4 october 2010, 13 february 2013 and 25 october 2011, respectively, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the municipal court that the enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. the applicants complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). ap 3438/12) and 26 february 2015 (decision no. 1 to the convention in the applicants’ and five other cases, on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour. section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ...... 42. the court finds that the crux of the problem in the present case is that the cb canton did not identify the exact number of unenforced judgments and the aggregate debt ... without which it is impossible to know when all the creditors will realise their claims against this canton. it should include the enforcement time-frame and a list of partial payments, if any. this will also help to avoid abuses of the enforcement procedure. in order to comply with its positive obligation, the government of the cb canton must, as explained above, calculate the total amount of the aggregate debt arising from the final judgments and prepare a comprehensive and transparent database ... this court will not specify what a reasonable time-limit should be ... but, in any event, it must be in accordance with article 6 § 1 and article 1 of protocol no. the constitutional court’s decision of 26 february 2015 follows the same legal reasoning. they renounced the remaining principal claim and default interest. the legal costs were to be settled by a separate agreement. from the information available in the case it transpires that no such agreement has been concluded.
the applicants are turkish nationals, whose dates of birth and places of residence are shown in the appendix. they all own plots of land located in different cities of turkey. following local land development plans, the applicants’ plots of land were designated for public use. subsequently, complaining about the decrease in the market value of the land and the long-term uncertainty about the fate of their plots of land, the applicants initiated compensation proceedings before the civil courts. during the proceedings relating to their land, the applicants submitted the decision given by the plenary chamber of the court of cassation (civil divisions, numbered e.2004/5-555 k.2005/17) to the domestic courts and asserted that according to this decision their compensation claims had to be accepted. on various dates between 2007 and 2010, the applicants’ respective claims for compensation were dismissed by the domestic courts on the ground that their plots of land were not actually seized by the authorities. in their decisions, neither the courts of first instance nor fifth civil division of the court of cassation, which examined the applicants’ claims on cassation, expressed any reason as to why they had reached a different conclusion from the plenary court of cassation. the details of the proceedings may be found in the appended table.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lived, prior to his arrest and conviction, in moscow. he was charged with unlawful purchase and possession of firearms and aggravated murder. on 11 july 2006 the investigator questioned sh., identified the applicant as the perpetrator. was admitted to hospital and was unable to attend the trial. on 28 march 2007 the trial by a jury opened in the moscow city court. on 10 april 2007 the jury returned a guilty verdict. by a judgment of 13 april 2007, the moscow city court sentenced the applicant to eighteen years’ imprisonment. he wrote that he had found out that on several occasions the presiding judge had entered the room where the jurors had been deliberating and advised them to declare him guilty. who had presided over the applicant’s trial, refused to amend the minutes of the trial to take note of the applicant’s statement that the judge had been present during the jury’s deliberations, had advised them as to how to fill out the questionnaire and had made comments about the applicant’s character and guilt. on 21 may 2007 the applicant’s representative obtained a statement, certified by a notary public from n., a juror. the juror stated that during the trial the presiding judge sht. on 5 june 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction on appeal. it follows from the trial record that the defence did not object to the actions of the presiding judge and did not allege any breach of confidentiality of jury deliberations. who did not appear in court on account of her undergoing treatment in hospital.
the writs of execution issued on 2 march 2007, 5 april 2010, 2 march 2010, 14 december 2010 and 24 june 2008, respectively, by the zenica municipal court and the tešanj municipal court, were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges on the debtor’s account. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the competent courts that enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. on 12 july 2008 the first applicant, mr suljo kunić, complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). it ordered the government of the zenica-doboj canton to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of the cantonal debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“39. admittedly, a delay in the execution of a judgment may be justified in particular circumstances, but the delay may not be such as to impair the essence of the right protected under article 6 § 1’ ... 46. the constitutional court agrees with the position taken by the european court ... it is nevertheless aware of the effects the global economic crisis had on bosnia and herzegovina ... the court notes that the federal and the cantonal governments had taken certain steps with the view to enforcement of final court decisions. section 138 of the federal enforcement procedure act 2003 provides that the final judgments against the federation and the cantons shall be enforced within the amount of budgetary funds designated for that purpose ... and that the creditors shall enforce their claims in the order in which they acquired the enforcement titles ... in 2010 and 2011 the amount of funds for that purpose in the budget of the zenica-doboj canton was 100,000 convertible marks. furthemore, there should exist a centralised and transparent database of all the claims listed in chronological order according to the time the judgments became final. it should include the enforcement time-frame and a list of partial payments, if any. this will also help to avoid abuses of the enforcement procedure. these measure and adequate funds in the annual budget would ensure that all the final judgments are enforced within a reasonable time ... and the zenica-doboj canton would ensure the respect of its obligations from article 6 §1 and article 1 of protocol no. however, the limitation of the enforcement in the present case is contrary to the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 1 of protocol no. on 16 january 2013 the constitutional court adopted a procedural decision to the effect that its decision of 12 october 2011 and eight other decisions on the same matter in cases concerning various individual appellants (see paragraph 15 below) had not been enforced. the final judgments in the applicants’ favour have not yet been enforced.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in mardin. an incident report regarding events that took place between 28 march and 1 april 2006 was prepared on 3 april 2006 by the police and was signed by more than 220 officers. the crowd then walked to a cemetery for the burial of the deceased. however, the crowd became agitated and started throwing stones at the police officers on duty, injuring a number of them and causing extensive damage to state buildings and vehicles, banks, shops and other vehicles belonging to private individuals. on the same day, the applicant made a statement to the diyarbakır public prosecutor. 5237), on the basis of articles 220 § 6 and 314 § 3 of the same code. in the third recording, the applicant was seen applauding with other students. on 19 june 2007 the diyarbakır assize court held the first hearing during which the applicant made defence submissions. he accepted that he was the person in the photographs. 3713, for which he received a sentence of a total of one year and eight months’ imprisonment. in its judgment, the assize court observed, on the basis of the police video recordings and the photographs extracted from those recordings, that the applicant had attended the funeral of four pkk militants on 28 march 2006; that he had walked in front of one of the coffins during the funeral; and that he had made a “v” sign. as to the demonstration held on 5 march 2007 at dicle university, the trial court noted that the applicant had applauded while other demonstrators had chanted slogans in support of abdullah öcalan. in his dissenting opinion, the judge stated that neither article 220 § 6 of the criminal code nor the explanatory memorandum on article 220 § 6 explained the concept of committing an offence on behalf of an illegal organisation. on 14 december 2012 the diyarbakır assize court decided to suspend the criminal proceedings against the applicant under section 7(2) of law no. 6352, which had entered into force on 5 july 2012.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in yerevan. nearly unconscious, with impaired breathing and low blood pressure. and the nurse drew up an ambulance visit record stating that they had arrived seven minutes after receiving the ambulance call and that they had administered only one medical injection, of relanium. 89) produced on 14 january 2008, the injection of relanium 2 mg and magnesium 3 g by the ambulance crew had been correct at the given moment, taking into account the patient’s condition − that is to say convulsion syndrome − and the injection of the given quantity of those substances was not contra-indicated. ’s pregnancy, impaired breathing and low blood pressure. ’s five-week pregnancy contributed to the emergence and development of her illness, whether the pregnancy and the illness she was diagnosed with had a direct causal link with each other. the scientific methods on which forensic medical opinion no. 89 of the panel of experts were based, whether these were supported by medical literature and which methods had been applied during previous examinations... 19. not injecting magnesium at the given moment could have entailed negative consequences. on 25 april 2008 the investigator decided to reject the institution of criminal proceedings for lack of corpus delicti. in particular, the investigator stated that there had been a 40-minute delay before the ambulance arrived and that only one of two injections given to k.m. the ambulance driver had not carried the patient downstairs and had not assisted in putting her in the ambulance. on 16 may 2008 the medical council of the emergency medical service held a meeting at which the circumstances described in the investigator’s decision of 25 april 2008 were discussed. had been reprimanded for poor performance of her duties. on 16 july 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision with the criminal court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in hamburg. absolutely wanted to be transferred back to cell no. according to a report drawn up by the treating doctor on 4 october 2005, it was “not possible to assess the intake of liquids”, “communication [was] difficult” because y.c. to the hospital on the day of his death; the police doctor who had examined y.c. the police officers who had been checking on y.c. against his will; and that the calculation of y.c. on 4 january 2006 dr h., the forensic expert who had conducted the autopsy, submitted his final autopsy report (dated 5 october 2005), as well as his expert report on y.c. no typical external signs of dehydration had been visible, except for the lips appearing to be slightly dry. as concerns the hunger strike, dr h. stated that it was likely that y.c. on 13 february 2006 the competent member of the iap held a hearing during which he examined as witnesses the applicant, a cellmate of y.c., until his death had also stated during the iap hearing that he had not appeared to be ill or weak, but that on the contrary, even on the day of his death he had seemed athletic and strong; which had been corroborated by photographs taken of his dead body and its description by dr h. in the autopsy report (see paragraph 30 above). had announced his hunger strike had in principle amounted to a normal weight, given his height. the ministry of the interior appealed against that decision. moreover, it found that the iap had not respected certain procedural requirements, which is why the administrative court referred the case back to the iap. 17208/08 inadmissible, pursuant to article 35 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention, as the proceedings were still pending before the iap and the complaints lodged by the applicant with the court were therefore premature.
the applicant was born in 1970 and is currently serving a prison sentence. - the cause of the events is the general tension arising from corruption and insolence [of public officials]. a day before posting the above in his blog, on his way back by car from ismayilli to baku on 24 january 2013, between 5.41 and 5.46 p.m. the applicant gave a live interview to azadliq radio by phone, stating in particular as follows (as quoted in the domestic courts’ judgments):“our impressions are such that, after the quba events, this is the most serious warning to the azerbaijani leadership that the state can no longer be governed in this manner. because it is claimed that his relative had caused the initial incident [that sparked the riot]. on 30 january 2013 the applicant commented on that statement on his blog. pleaded not guilty and alleged that he had been beaten by investigators at the pre-trial stage with the purpose of obtaining a statement favorable to the prosecution. the government did not submit the transcripts reflecting the statements of this witness at the trial and did not otherwise comment on the above allegation by the applicant. the court questioned four police officers named by the accused in connection with the alleged ill-treatment, all of whom denied that the accused had been ill-treated. according to the description given in the court’s judgment, a video recording of 24 january 2013 showed the applicant and tofiq yaqublu “standing in the centre of the town of ismayilli, opposite to the administrative building of the education department, at a place where acts of mass disorder had been committed”. lastly, the video showed the police using a water cannon against the crowd and the protesters dispersing in various directions. at the hearing held on 13 january 2014 one of the applicant’s lawyers, mr f. agayev, lodged a second objection to the composition of the court, arguing, inter alia, that the court was biased: it had rejected all of the defence’s requests and created obstacles to the proper questioning of “fake witnesses” by the defence. stated that, after he had greeted [the applicant], he had gone to sleep in the car and, in fact, had not known the whereabouts of [the applicant and tofiq yaqbulu] during that period of time. [ see paragraphs 52-56 above) indicated that between about 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. on 24 january 2013 there was mass disorder in front of the building of the regional education department and that the applicant and tofiq yaqublu had incited people to riot and resist the police. who had participated, as an attesting witness, in the inspection of the scene of the events [of the previous night] from 10 a.m. to 4.10 p.m. on 24 january 2013, and had later testified that at around 5 p.m. on the same day he had seen [the applicant and tofiq yaqublu inciting people to commit acts of disorder]. [ after the proceedings at the sheki court of appeal, on 25 september 2014 the presiding judge of that court also sent letters to the bar association requesting that it take disciplinary measures against both lawyers, stating that they had behaved similarly throughout the appellate proceedings.
the ohrid archdiocese (охридска архиепископија), in its original form, existed until 1767, when it was abolished by the turkish sultan. the government submitted that that had provoked a public reaction and that there had been street protests in several cities in the respondent state. on 25 december 2003 the applicant association constituted its own holy synod and appointed mr vraniškovski as its president. in support of the application, the applicant association submitted the following documents: (a) a founding decision of 1 september 2004 rendered by its holy synod. that the applicant association would operate as part of a foreign orthodox church was, in the commission’s view, in violation of section 12 of the 1997 act. in its decision of 3 november 2004, the commission further referred to several international documents and a declaration that the parliament of the respondent state adopted in 2004 regarding the moc (see paragraph 51 below). while relying on the decisions of the authorities refusing the applicant association’s registration as “orthodox ohrid archdiocese”, he also notified the court that a fresh application for registration had been submitted under the name “greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy” (see paragraphs 23-34 below). according to “the minutes of the constituent assembly” (записник од основачкото собрание) “... at the proposal of his beatitude (неговото блаженство), the archbishop of ohrid and metropolitan of skopje mr jovan (vraniškovski), the holy synod of the orthodox ohrid archdiocese composed of (bishops j., m., and d., all macedonian nationals) convened a meeting on 27 april 2009 in order to adopt decisions for setting up and registration of “the greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy”. any person who does not respect human rights and freedoms regarding association of people on religious grounds, especially if he or she is a judge ... does not differ much from famous persecutors of the holy church ... we wrote the above in order to warn that it will be unpleasant if the court does not register ‘the greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy’ ...” 30. if registration was granted “it would operate in the territory of the respondent state as part of a foreign orthodox church ... it would operate and be managed autonomously within the canonical jurisdiction of the peć patriarchy, notably (the soc) ... which had no canonical or any other jurisdiction over (the moc) or in the territory of (the respondent state).” on an unspecified date thereafter, d.n. ( referring to the courts’ decisions rejecting the applicant association’s request for registration as “greek-orthodox ohrid archdiocese of the peć patriarchy” and relying on articles 9, 16 and 19 of the constitution and article 9 of the convention, the court stated:“the court cannot examine the appeal on the merits since the complainant did not comply with the formal statutory requirements before a competent court (for registration of the applicant). the complainant was not a priori refused registration of his religious community by a final judicial decision. schismatics and renegades should be marginalised, isolated and rejected. in this connection the article quoted a letter by mr vraniškovski in which he allegedly stated:“the (holy) synod was governed by the idea that the name of the religious community in respect of which we seek registration does not betray the essence of our church.
the applicants are the brother and the parents of mr costas tsalikidis, who was found dead on 9 march 2005. in his report he stated that there were no signs of forced entry at any of the entrances to the residence, and no footprints or other marks on the balcony. on 25 september 2006 the decision was upheld by order no. the spyware diverted phone conversations made by v.’s subscribers to fourteen “shadow” pay-as-you-go mobile phones, allowing calls to be monitored. mr tsalikidis’ death occurred the day after the spyware had been removed from v.’s network and the day before the relevant ministers were informed and this fact was mentioned in all the newspaper articles, suggesting an association between his death and the wiretapping affair without his involvement in the case being established. the first was an extract of comments taken from a report issued by the forensic institute in athens. this statement, too, is inconsistent with the normal colouration of the face as shown in the photographs. no attempt whatsoever was made to identify the time of death... no fibres were taken from the ligature for identification and no tissue taken from the ligature were taken for microscopic examination. while adequate examination is not possible only from inspecting photographs, the knot used to anchor the rope appears quite complex. the results, whether positive or negative, would be definitive. two other issues are of concern: (1) was the deceased able to tie the complex knot used to support him, and (2) it appears that complete toxicology testing (was not) performed and that is a very serious omission. in particular, he stressed the absence of signs usually found in cases of hanging, that is to say cyanosis of the face, oedema of the face, and projection of the tongue, all of which were not present in this case. on 7 march 2012 the request was granted and a supplementary preliminary investigation was ordered. 865/25-11-2013 on the exhumed body, drawn up on 25 november 2013 by the forensic and toxicology laboratory of the school of medicine of athens university, the results were negative as regards the presence of poison or medication. his report dated 12 april 2012 stated that the deceased did not betray any of the personality characteristics associated with a suicide risk.
the first applicant is a french national who was born in 1970 and lives in mouroux. on 12 november 2009, at about 4.30 p.m., m.b., he was known to the staff there, where he habitually went to collect the medicine prescribed for his psychiatric disorders. when he vehemently refused, sergeant l. and constable d. seized him by the arm in order to remove him from the pharmacy. deputy police sergeant p. went to get the police vehicle to move it closer to the pharmacy. of the three pharmacists who gave a statement that day, on 12 november 2009, two were present when the police officers had asked m.b. he explained that he had requested medical reinforcements and that then, when they observed that his heart had stopped beating, the firemen had decided to take him back into the pharmacy to continue carrying out cardiac massage. the other facial injuries suggested close contact on a rough surface. ’s shoulders, as sergeant l. had done, was one of the procedures taught. reports were produced by several experts appointed by one of the investigating judges. when the smur [mobile emergency and intensive care service] intervened the criterion of seriousness was ... the fact that [m.b.] had been suffering from heart failure for approximately twenty minutes. the judges considered that the force used by the police officers had been necessary and proportionate “even if being pinned down in the van, by l. and p. and m.’s position – standing on [m.b. the applicants appealed against that ruling. had died suddenly of cardiac rhythm disorders owing to a coronary spasm triggered by a context of intense and prolonged emotional and physical stress, and formally ruled out mechanical asphyxia; lastly, the forensic and psychiatric expert ... concluded that [m.b.]
the applicant company is a limited liability company registered in the town of kstovo, in the nizhegorodskiy region. the applicant company is the founder, editor and publisher of a local newspaper, zemlyaki, printed in kstovo and distributed in the kstovskiy district. the marmoset (мартышка) borrowed money from a bank to pay her debts. she did repay them, but afterwards the bank required her to pay back both the loan and interest. in another article concerning the same subject matter, this time in issue 13 (402) dated 20 march 2004, authored by z.o. it is a pity that the employees of waste disposal services have not thought about this yet. or, more accurately, is going up in flames. or, even more precisely, has been blown to bits.” complained about the articles to the kstovo city court. he claimed that the articles published in the applicant company’s newspaper had contained defamatory and damaging material. 13 (402) dated 20 march 2004 in the article ‘the golden grin awards’ is defamatory to the claimant’s honour, dignity and reputation; and in particular, in the article ‘success has turned his head’, the defendant n.g. the court declared the information in question erroneous and defamatory, and ordered the applicant company to pay an amount of a symbolic value to the claimant in damages and publish a retraction phrased in the following terms:“the editorial board of the [applicant company] offers its apologies to the head of the kstovo district administration, y.l., on 22 october 2004 the nizhegorodskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. this being so, the court judgment was taken lawfully and justifiably, there being no grounds to quash it...”. further attempts by the applicant company to have the case reviewed by way of supervisory review procedure were unsuccessful.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1997 respectively and live in st petersburg. on 8 november 2001 the fms deprived the first applicant of her status as a forced migrant on the grounds that she had not applied in due time for it to be extended. according to the first applicant, she was not informed of that decision until 2003. in july 2009 the fms ordered the applicants to vacate the room. the applicants did not vacate the room and continued to live in it. in december 2009 the applicants were placed on the waiting list for social housing. on 19 january 2010 the applicant applied to the fms with a new request to re-establish her forced migrant status. on 25 january 2010 the fms upheld its decision of 8 november 2001. therefore, there were no grounds for declaring that decision unlawful. in 2011 the fms brought court proceedings against the applicants, seeking their eviction from the room. the first applicant] lost her forced migrant status in 2001, her minor son has never had such a status, and therefore the court comes to the conclusion that the respondents unlawfully occupy the disputed housing and should be evicted without the provision of any alternative accommodation ...” 25. the first applicant] in her grounds of appeal, whereby the eviction from the disputed housing without the provision of any alternative accommodation is a violation of their [the applicants’] housing rights, since they do not have any other housing. the applicants submitted that it had not been possible to ask for any extension of the agreement. since 15 march 2016 the second applicant has been registered as living in the flat belonging to his father and his paternal grandmother. according to the information provided by the government, in 2016 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg prepared a draft order for the removal of the second applicant from the waiting list of persons eligible for social housing.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in dublin, ireland. in 2004 he married a slovak national and the couple settled in ireland. their two children, born in 2006 and 2008, are both irish nationals. on 6 january 2011 the mother travelled to slovakia with the two children and they have not returned to ireland since. on 1 july and 26 october 2011 respectively, the bratislava i district court and, following an appeal by the mother, the bratislava regional court, ordered the return of the children to ireland as their country of habitual residence and issued several ancillary orders. the return order became enforceable on 8 july 2011. on 9 february 2012 the michalovce district court attempted to have the mother comply voluntarily with the order. on 18 october 2012 and 26 june 2013 respectively, the district court and, following an appeal by the applicant, the košice regional court, found that the return order was not enforceable. he referred to the shortcomings in the order as identified by the enforcement courts and asked the court to specify to whom the order had been directed and to provide a time frame for the return of the children. on 9 july 2014 the constitutional court declared the complaint admissible and on 27 may 2015 it found on the merits that the košice regional court had violated the applicant’s rights, as specified below (“the first constitutional judgment”). the judgment was final and not amenable to appeal. following the first constitutional judgment, the enforcement proceedings resumed before the regional court, which heard the case on 3 august 2015. however, having regard to the considerable length of time that had elapsed, it deemed it necessary to assess afresh all the circumstances decisive for the enforcement of the return order, such as the children’s whereabouts, their health and the possibility of their returning to ireland. it relied on medical reports concerning the children’s health, a psychological report referring to negative consequences for them if they were separated from the mother and an opinion from the court-appointed guardian (the michalovce office of employment, social affairs and family) about the stable family environment they had while living with their mother. moreover, the constitutional court found that there had been a violation of the applicant’s right to respect for his family life as a consequence of the fact that throughout the enforcement proceedings, whose length had been in breach of his right to a hearing within a reasonable time, he had been unable to assert his parental rights before the competent courts.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is currently being detained in a correctional colony in the village of torbeyevo, mordovia republic, russia. on 21 april 2005 the applicant was convicted during a public hearing of murder and was sentenced to imprisonment. he and his lawyer had had thirty-five minutes to study the case file, which consisted of five volumes. the conviction was upheld on appeal in a public hearing on 18 august 2005 (“the 2005 proceedings”). the case was sent for fresh examination on appeal. the applicant was allowed to re-read the case file within the new appeal proceedings. he and his lawyer had five days, from 4 to 8 october 2010, to study the now six-volume case file (about 1,500 pages) in remand prison no. iz-24/1 in krasnoyarsk, where the applicant was being detained. the applicant was allegedly held in a metal cage while studying the case, without a table or any other facilities to take notes. after studying the case file both the applicant and the lawyer filed appeals. in his appeal statements the applicant analysed the case materials in detail, referred extensively to all the main items of evidence, including expert opinions and witness testimony, and referred to exact pages in the case file. the applicant’s case was examined by the supreme court of russia (“the supreme court”) over four hearings, three of which (21 october, 30 november and 16 december 2010), according to the trial record and the court’s procedural decisions, were held in camera. the case file did not contain any formal decision by the supreme court to close the hearings to the public. the applicant was represented by two lawyers who confirmed to the court that they had had enough time to study the case file. on 16 december 2010 the supreme court upheld the judgment of 21 april 2005.
ms damani kaimova, ms maryam moldyyevna kaimova, and ms zarina tamiyevna maskhurova were born on 16 february 1953, 13 january 2005, and 18 september 1981, respectively. he remained in detention throughout the investigation and trial. a standard treatment with first-line medication was prescribed. treatment with second-line drugs was prescribed. in february and march 2010 doctors noted progression of the disease. on 14 april 2010, in response to mr kaimov’s “negligent attitude towards his treatment”, a doctor talked to him about the importance of taking his drugs regularly. on 22 april and 1 may 2010 the doctor had repeated talks with him on the issue. on 22 april, 31 may and 8 june 2010 the doctor responsible for mr kaimov’s treatment again noted in the medical file that the patient was not taking his drugs as prescribed and insisted that he should follow medical instructions properly. the medical records were not signed by mr kaimov. four days later mr k., a lawyer working with the russian justice initiative, interviewed mr kaimov in the prison hospital. the first applicant did not allow an autopsy to take place. on 22 november 2010 mr k. asked the head of the investigative committee of the republic of tatarstan to investigate the circumstances of mr kaimov’s death. he pointed out that the detainee had complained of the lack of treatment in detention. the investigator again refused to open a criminal case on 5 january 2011. in particular, a medical expert examination was to be performed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in yerevan. on 16 august 2004 he was charged with fraud in armenia and the kentron and nork-marash district court in yerevan issued an arrest warrant. on 8 november 2006 the applicant was arrested in ufa, russia. on an unspecified date the russian prosecutor general received an extradition request from his armenian counterpart. on an application a district prosecutor in ufa, on 27 december 2006 the kirovskiy district court in ufa remanded the applicant in custody, without setting a time-limit for his detention. on 13 february 2007 the supreme court of bashkortostan upheld the detention order on appeal. on 23 march 2007 a deputy prosecutor general granted the extradition request; on 17 july 2007 the supreme court of russia upheld that decision in final instance. on 24 august 2007 the applicant was extradited to armenia where he was acquitted of all charges and released. on 16 february 2008, when attempting to return to russia, the applicant was detained by the russian border control and held in custody until 22 february 2008. the parties did not produce a record of the applicant’s arrest or any judicial decision authorising his detention.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in ercsi. on 28 february 2007 the applicant filed an action with the székesfehérvár labour court against his former employer, claiming unlawful dismissal. on 6 june 2008 the court found in his favour and obliged the respondent to the action to pay him a severance payment, outstanding wages, a lump sum in compensation, and default interest. on appeal, on 25 february 2009 the fejér county regional court changed the judgment in part. in june 2009 the respondent filed a petition for review. in an order of 2 june 2010 the supreme court forwarded the respondent’s petition to the applicant and informed him that, within eight days of receiving the order, he could file comments on the respondent’s petition and/or request an oral hearing. on 7 june 2010 the applicant received the order, and on 14 june 2010 he dispatched his comments on the petition for review. the document was received by the supreme court on 17 june 2010. meanwhile, on 16 june 2010 the supreme court, sitting as a review court, had given a judgment in which it had reversed the previous decisions and dismissed the applicant’s action. the court stated that the applicant had not filed any comments on the petition for review. the applicant complained and addressed his complaint of 6 december 2010 to the president of the supreme court. the head of the civil division informed him that his comments on the petition for review had been belated.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in groznyy in the chechen republic. on 23 june 2012 the applicant was arrested in connection with a drug-related offence and placed in custody. on 14 august 2012 the oktyabrskiy district court of groznyy found the applicant guilty and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. on 14 november 2012 the supreme court of the chechen republic quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial. on 30 may 2013 the oktyabrskiy district court again convicted the applicant and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. the court stated that the “preventive measure [should] remain unchanged until the conviction [had become] final”. on 24 june 2013 counsel for the applicant asked the director of the remand prison to release the applicant since he had already served the one-year sentence. on the same day a judge of the district court faxed a letter to the director, informing him that the applicant should not be released until the supreme court had examined the matter on appeal since the district court ordered the preventive measure to remain unchanged. on 3 july 2013 the supreme court upheld the conviction and the applicant was released.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in zagreb. the chief officer on duty in the iv zagreb police station) and n.v. ( of this and the latter ordered that the emergency medical service be called. all these reports alleged that the applicant, in attempting to flee from the police officers, had fallen and that while on the ground had actively resisted the police officers, who had then applied the armlock technique and handcuffed him. on 21 december 2012 the head of iv police station in zagreb, s.t., stated that the applicant had said that he had fallen and that the police officers had caught him and applied force against him and denied that he had resisted arrest. on 28 december 2012 the head of the zagreb police informed the head of iv police station in zagreb that, on the basis of the report of a.l., upon inspecting the file the internal control service instructed the police to forward the file to the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (hereinafter the “zmsao”) for further assessment. the officers had then taken him to a police station where they continued to beat him. the doctors had recommended urgent surgery but the police officers had not allowed it. in the evening he had been admitted to zagreb prison. on 13 october 2015 the zmsao interviewed the applicant, who said that during his arrest on 20 december 2012 one of the police officers, when applying the armlock technique, had broken his right arm. upon his arrival at the police station he had continued to complain about the pain in his arm, but had been ignored. she had also witnessed the applicant’s arrest and said that she had not seen the police officers hitting or kicking the applicant. on 13 january 2016 the zmsao interviewed b.z.,
the applicant was born in 1977 and at the material time was serving a sentence of imprisonment. the facts of the case as submitted by the parties may be summarised as follows. he was arrested on 28 december 2006 and placed in pre-trial detention. the applicant did not appeal against his conviction. on 25 september 2007, in the second set of criminal proceedings, the applicant was found guilty of armed robbery and sentenced to thirteen years’ imprisonment. further tests three months later were recommended. on 23 june 2008 the applicant’s lawyer asked for additional medical tests to be organised for the applicant. in addition to being treated by a dentist, according to the medical file, the applicant had a consultation with a neurologist and an endocrinologist because he was experiencing persistent headaches. on 30 july 2008 the applicant was discharged from the prison hospital, although his headaches persisted. on 30 october 2008 the applicant staged a hunger strike to obtain an examination by a neurologist. on 17 december 2008 a representative from the public defender’s office met with the chief physician of rustavi prison no. 6, where the applicant was staying at the material time. while discussing in detail the failures and shortcomings of the existing insurance scheme, the public defender recommended that the relevant authorities annul the relevant contract. on 5 march 2009 the applicant was placed in a facility in ksani for prisoners with tuberculosis. the sanitary and hygienic conditions were appalling, and for months there was no opportunity for him to have proper shower.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in reykjavík. he served as minister of finance in the years 1998 to 2005, minister for foreign affairs from 2005 to 2006 and prime minister from 2006 to 2009. on 8 february 2010 the sic informed him that it considered that he had acted negligently and invited him to submit a written statement in reply, which he did on 24 february 2010. it was also to adopt a position on ministerial accountability and assess whether there were grounds for impeachment proceedings before the court of impeachment (landsdómur) for violations of the ministerial accountability act (lög um ráðherraábyrgð, no. on 11 september 2010 the prc submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution to commence impeachment proceedings against four cabinet members: the three mentioned above (including the applicant) and ms ingibjörg sólrún gísladóttir, who was the former minister of foreign affairs and the head of the social democratic alliance. six of the nine members of the progressive party (framsóknarflokkurinn) voted in favour of impeachment of all the ministers and three members voted against. it also appointed a parliamentary committee to assist her and to monitor the case. the applicant claims that he and his lawyer had made such a request on several earlier occasions. 4/1963 [on ministerial responsibility], and, alternatively, section 141 of the general penal code, no. it had been apparent that important government matters had not been discussed by the cabinet and the knowledge that the defendant had demonstrably possessed had not been reported to the ministers. he also challenged the impartiality of the prosecutor due to her involvement in parliament’s preparation of the decision to indict him, during which she had been repeatedly consulted by the prc and had allegedly expressed her opinion on his potential responsibility under the ministerial accountability act. moreover, judgment in a criminal case should be based on evidence presented in court, including the testimonies of witnesses. in regard to the applicant’s motion to have the whole case dismissed due to the alleged lack of clarity of section 8(c) of the ministerial accountability act, the court of impeachment considered that the words “important government matters” in article 17 of the constitution, to which section 8(c) referred, could easily be understood by a reasonable man in the office held by the applicant and that the provisions contained predictable and reasonable criteria regarding the minister’s discharge of official duties. that was all the more urgent as the defendant did not convey important information which he possessed about the affairs of the banks to the minister for business affairs, to whom they pertained. if such a policy had been formulated and then implemented in an organised manner, including action by the central bank of iceland and the financial supervisory authority, it may be argued that it would have been possible to lessen the harm caused by the collapse of the banks in the beginning of october 2008.
the applicant company, a limited liability company based in vienna, owns and publishes the daily newspaper der standard and the online news portal derstandard.at. the chairperson of the supervisory board is appointed by the regional government. was the member of the board of management in charge of human resources. was deputy governor of the region of carinthia. only a few hours later the medical director was dismissed without notice. was dismissed without notice immediately after the employees’ meeting. had personally initiated or ordered that a spy be sent to the employees’ meeting; however, by regularly applying and publicly announcing such practices he had created a climate and environment where such unfair methods were anticipated as “normal” and commonplace. having acted as a spin doctor or the like. on 15 may 2012 the vienna regional criminal court ordered the applicant company, under section 6 of the media act, to pay 3,000 euros (eur) (eur 1,500 for each publication of the article) in compensation to k.s. on account of defamation, and to publish the judgment. it held that describing someone as the spiritus rector of a negatively connoted spying operation had left no doubt for the readers addressed that the suggestion had been that this person had been the initiator and spin doctor of this operation. ’s application, would have a binding effect on the civil proceedings. on 19 march 2012, during a hearing, the vienna commercial court (handelsgericht) suspended the proceedings until the termination of the proceedings under the media act, holding that they should only be continued at one party’s request. ’s request of 1 october 2012, the commercial court resumed the proceedings on an unspecified date. on 29 june 2013 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant company’s appeal against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in sarajevo, bosnia and herzegovina. on 6 august 2008 the pula county state attorney’s office informed the investigating judge that the applicant also used another telephone number, and requested an authorisation for the tapping thereof. following the illicit transaction, the applicant and d.s. the investigating judge ordered his remand in custody. the applicant’s lawyer was present during the questioning. testified that a further meeting with the applicant had taken place in odra after a phone call from the applicant. reiterated the statement he had given to the investigating judge. following the applicant’s questioning, the trial bench concluded the trial proceedings and heard the parties’ closing arguments. on 13 may 2009 the pazin municipal court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment. also explained that a simulated purchase operation was sometimes carried out just once and sometimes on several occasions. following the questioning of the undercover agents, the defence asked that c.m. ‒ neither the questioning of the undercover agents nor any other [evidence adduced] suggests that the undercover agents incited the accused to commit an offence in the sense that they offered him some reward or brought him presents or such like. it cannot therefore be said that the conduct of the undercover agents broadened the extent of the criminal activity of the accused. furthermore, the pula county court had not taken into account the fact that the majority of the contacts with the applicant had been initiated by the undercover agents, and it had not analysed the substance of their discussions, even though they had been duly recorded, as a result of the applicant’s phone having been tapped. on 24 june 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint before the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske) reiterating the arguments he had presented before the lower courts.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in katyr-yurt, the chechen republic. 4 in the arkhangelsk region where he was to serve his twelve-year sentence. on admission to that facility, he underwent a general medical check-up permed by a prison doctor who concluded that he was healthy. on 6 april 2005, in view of the absence of any positive changes in mr r.’s health, he was moved to a prison tuberculosis hospital. it was started about two weeks later, but had no effect on mr r.’s health. on 12 april 2005 a drug susceptibility test was performed. according to the applicant, mr r. was unsatisfied with the quality of his treatment. it revealed that mr r.’s tuberculosis was resistant to four antibiotics being used in his treatment. there are no regular entries showing the actual intake of the new drugs. in november 2006 the applicant repeated his request, having argued that the custodial authorities bore responsibility for his son’s death because they had failed to protect him from tuberculosis and to ensure prompt diagnosis of the disease. by a letter of 9 january 2007 a prosecutor informed the applicant that a criminal inquiry had established that his son had contracted tuberculosis in early march 2005. she stated that mr r. had been admitted to the hospital on 23 april 2005. they had prescribed treatment with advanced antibiotics. the court found that the documents obtained by the first‑instance court and the statement by ms b. had remedied the alleged shortcomings in the investigation. the applicant’s claim was accordingly rejected.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lived until his arrest in the town of yuzhno-sakhalinsk, the sakhalin region. on 3 april 2003 the applicant was apprehended in a flat with unregistered firearms in his possession. an investigator of the sakhalin regional police department drew up an arrest record. on the following day the applicant’s detention on remand was authorised. a week later the applicant was charged with a number of crimes, including organisation and leadership of an armed gang, several counts of aggravated kidnapping, extortion, robbery and fraud, as well as illegal possession of firearms. on 21 april 2004 the applicant and his lawyers started studying the case file materials comprising nineteen volumes, 200-300 pages long each. on 6 april 2006 the regional court, by a jury verdict, found the applicant and six of his accomplices guilty as charged. on 12 may 2006 the regional court, relying on the jury verdict, sentenced the applicant to twenty-one years’ imprisonment. however, after mr l. had transferred the money to an account indicated by the applicant, the latter had disappeared. on his arrival at the airport of yuzhno-sakhalinsk on 13 october 2002 mr l. was met by mr k., one of the applicant’s accomplices, and taken to the applicant’s country house where he was held until 6 november 2002, being subjected to beatings and extortion by the applicant and his gang. mr k. had been found dead in a remand prison cell before the trial commenced. as for mr l., residing in the moscow region, the trial court attempted to secure his presence on several occasions by summoning him and ordering his escort to the court. he submitted a number of documents in support, as well as a written notice in which he confirmed his pre-trial statements. mr p. also was not heard in court as he was allegedly on vacation in ukraine. the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment of the regional court, complaining, among other matters, about the decision to read out pre-trial statements by mr l., mr p. and mr k. on 14 november 2007 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the judgment of the regional court, noting that it had correctly considered that reasons for the witnesses’ absence had been extraordinary and that it had lawfully read out their pre-trial statements.
the applicant was born in 1974 and is detained in diyarbakır. on 8 march 1995 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of hizbullah, an illegal organisation. the applicant’s right of access to a lawyer was restricted during his police custody according to the now defunct law no. on the same day he was examined by a doctor at his own request. the doctor noted, in a police document, that there was no sign of physical violence on the applicant’s body. on 5 april 1995 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge respectively, again in the absence of a lawyer. before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements claiming that he had been subjected to torture. on the same day and before his statements were taken, he had been examined by a doctor at the request of the police. on 12 april 1995 he was examined by a doctor at his own request claiming that he had been subjected to torture while in police custody. on 23 may 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicant and several other persons. on 19 october 1995 the state security court held the first hearing in the case. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 9 november 2007, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of attempting to undermine the constitutional order, proscribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code, and sentenced him to life imprisonment again. on 19 january 2009 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment.
the applicants were born in 1969 and 1961 respectively and live in podgorica. the decision stated that access to the data that was collected was protected by codes which were known only to the dean. they requested that the cameras be removed and the data erased. according to them, there had been cases of destruction of university property, the bringing in of animals, drink and tobacco, and the presence of people who were not students. on 22 march 2011 the applicants filed an objection to the report, submitting, inter alia, that they were not aware of any of the alleged incidents and that, in any event, it was unclear how such cameras could ensure the safety of people and property. they agreed that cameras over the entrances and exits from the university building might perhaps be an adequate form of ensuring such security. on 28 april 2011, after the applicants’ objection to the report, the agency’s council (savjet agencije za zaštitu ličnih podataka) issued a decision (rješenje) ordering the school of mathematics to remove the cameras from the auditoriums within fifteen days as the video surveillance was not in accordance with the personal data protection act, notably sections 10, 35 and 36 (see paragraphs 24, and 26-27 below). none of the parties initiated an administrative dispute in court against that decision. it appears that the data that had been collected was also erased on an unspecified date. they submitted in particular that such an interference with their private lives, without any possibility to control that process, was not provided for by any piece of legislation and that therefore it had not been in accordance with the law, within the meaning of article 8 § 2 of the convention. they also maintained that it had not pursued any legitimate aim and had not been necessary in a democratic society. it was a working area, just like a courtroom or parliament, where professors were never alone, and therefore they could not invoke any right to privacy that could be violated. the court, for its part, did not deal with those issues. on 31 december 2012 the applicants appealed. the applicants did not file a constitutional appeal.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in nalchik, the ingushetiya republic. on 10 october 2006 the applicant was travelling by a collective taxi from nalchik to grozny in chechnya. the applicant raised his objections, claiming that the wrong kind of ink did not render his passport invalid. an operative established his identity, verified his documents and let him go at 5.10 p.m. the station chief later stated that the applicant had “thanked him for a prompt release”. pursuant to article 27.3(1) of the code of administrative offences, administrative detention may be applied in exceptional circumstances if this is necessary for the prompt and proper examination of the alleged administrative offence. the decision ... refusing institution of criminal proceedings indicates that a report on the administrative offence ... was compiled and forwarded to [mr timishev’s] place of residence. subsequent decisions refusing institution of criminal proceedings stated alternatively that it was impossible to establish the time of the applicant’s detention because it had not been recorded in any documents, that the applicant had been detained for disobeying police orders, that he had been actually free to go after 3.15 p.m. but had asked to be taken to the nadterechnyi office to file a complaint there and the police had ensured his safe passage. nor had he determined what “exceptional circumstances” within the meaning of article 27.3(1) had called for the applicant’s detention and at what time the applicant had actually left the nadterechnyi police station. the court was not convinced that the applicant had asked the police to take him to the nadterechnyi office to file a complaint. it considered implausible that the police had provided a car and an escort to help him complain about their conduct. even assuming that he had indeed wished to make a complaint, the investigator did not establish what had happened to it or, alternatively, why he had not written it, or why he had gone there in person instead of sending it by post from goragorsk. 605 of 15 september 1997), the head of the passports department should have asked the passport holder to sign the passport with special ink. responsibility for the wrong kind of ink should lie with the official who departed from the guidance rather than with the applicant. on 9 april 2009 the investigator issued a further decision refusing institution of criminal proceedings. it was similar in its wording to the previous ones and did not touch upon the areas of concern identified in the district court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1950 and is detained in dob pri mirni. and another person and that a fight had started. the applicant’s knife had had a ten-centimetre blade. he had been stabbed in the back several times by the applicant. he testified that the applicant and his sons had been the weaker parties in the fight until the applicant had pulled out a knife, saying, “now let us see”, and using it to attack š.a., no longer had a place of residence that was registered in slovenia, the court on 21 november 2008 asked the police department for international cooperation to investigate where the two witnesses were living. the court received the letter on 25 may 2009. seven hearings were held, taking place on 25 september 2008, 27 november 2008, 29 january 2009, 19 february 2009, 10 april 2009, 29 may 2009 and 17 june 2009. at the hearing of 29 may 2009, at which the applicant and his counsel were present, the court noted that še.a. who had told him that the men had been attacked outside. in a judgment of fifty-four pages, the court established on the basis of the testimony, telephone and gps data that the applicant had called š.a. it had finished when the applicant and his sons had left the scene and š.a. ’s initial testimony (see paragraph 16 above) to be the more persuasive of the two, and that it was in line with the findings of the medical experts. in the judgment the court also explained the reasons for reading out i.b. the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters entered into force with respect to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 26 october 1999 and with respect to slovenia on 17 october 2001.
the applicant is a construction company, which was established in 2003 and has its seat of business in mersin. in 2005, after having obtained a permit to operate a mine, the applicant opened a mine in a plot of land of 8,700 m² which it owned. during the course of its mining activities, on 31 january 2006 an audit commission under the mersin provincial administration conducted an inspection. subsequently, the commission drew up a report, proposing that the applicant should be ordered to pay 131,250 turkish liras (try)[1] for quarrying substantial amounts of sand in the neighbouring plots of 5,000 m², outside of its licensed area. on 8 february 2006 the applicant company’s president, ü.t., filed a complaint with the mersin public prosecutor’s office, stating that one of the auditors in the commission, m.a.l., an official at the provincial administration. accordingly, the police gave him try 10,000 and noted down the serial numbers of the banknotes. he stated that in line with the instructions of m.a.l. on 13 may 2011 the mersin assize court found the two officials guilty as charged. the appeal proceedings with regard to that judgment are still pending before the court of cassation as of september 2017. in the meantime, on 17 april 2006 the applicant had filed an objection with the tarsus magistrates’ court and requested a stay of execution of the fine. on 13 june 2006, the tarsus magistrates’ court rejected the applicant’s requests for an oral hearing and on-site examination without indicating any reasons for its decision. the applicant objected to that decision, arguing that the fine had been unlawfully imposed on it and that the magistrates’ court had failed to adequately assess the case as it had not held a hearing. on 10 july 2006 the tarsus assize court rejected the applicant’s objection without holding a hearing.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 2003, the applicant graduated from high school in kaluga and began studies at the finance and economics institute. upon his release on 29 february 2008, he returned to kaluga. on 12 january 2012 the police stopped the applicant in the courtyard of his house and charged him with illegal residence in russia. he shared cell 13 measuring 8.7 square metres with five uzbek nationals awaiting deportation. it was cleaned with cold water without detergent. prisoners were given three litres of water per day, it was not allowed to boil it. once a week prisoners were taken to the shower room. there was not enough hot water for all of them and they took turns skipping the shower. there was no calendar or clock in the cell. prisoners were taken outdoors in groups of thirty. the yard was small, six by four metres, so they huddled together. their report corroborated the applicant’s description of his conditions of detention. he was transferred for treatment to a civilian hospital in kaluga. upon his discharge, he took advantage of the absence of police escort and absconded.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in yalova. the applicant and his wife have four children. between 2003 and 2006 he was imprisoned in algeria, where he alleges he was subjected to various forms of ill-treatment. during his detention, many people were detained in the room, at times as many as 10-12 people. he was confined in that room and was exceptionally allowed to use the other parts of the detention facility. however, he was taken to hospital on only one occasion. in one of those photographs he is seen sitting on the bench in a small detention room behind bars. m, and an identification parade room of 6 sq. they stated that at the material time the turkish nationals had been kept locked in one of the detention rooms and that the applicant and other foreign nationals had had access at all times to the hall in the centre of the facility − where there were chairs and a table – and to the toilets. in support of their submissions the government submitted a sketch map of the detention facility and a total of thirty-nine photographs. there is a shower head installed in each of the toilets. in particular, on 26, 27 and 28 november 2013 no turkish national had been held in custody. as regards the applicant’s complaint that the conditions of his detention at the yalova police headquarters had amounted to ill-treatment, the constitutional court noted that he had complained that his health had worsened as a result of the conditions in which he had been detained. cpt/inf(97)10-part) provide, in so far as relevant, as follows:“27. consequently, the period of time spent by immigration detainees in such establishments should be kept to the absolute minimum.
when he lodged his application he was in prison serving a sentence for economic offences. on 27 november 2012 the applicant had been admitted to the bucharest institute of oncology, from which he had been discharged on 11 january 2013. from 14 to 18 january 2013 he had once again been admitted to hospital. he had undergone prostate surgery and begun chemotherapy. on 27 march 2013 he was transferred to the rahova prison hospital. furthermore, it transpired from the medical documents made available to the committee that the applicant had had chemotherapy sessions at bacău hospital on 12 april 2013 and at the bucharest institute of oncology on 10 and 17 may 2013. the applicant was released on the same day. on 28 october 2013 he was taken into the iaşi regional institute of oncology for five palliative radiotherapy sessions geared to alleviating his bone pain. on 5 november 2013 he was transferred to vaslui prison. still on 22 november 2013, the applicant was admitted to the bacău hospital oncology department. he explained that he was dying and that he wanted to have his family present. he pointed out that he was now bedridden, blind and deaf, and that there was no one in prison to assist him in his everyday activities. on 4 december 2013 the applicant was transferred to bacău prison and then to bacău hospital, where he remained until 7 december 2013. drawing on the medical files relating to the applicant’s stays in that hospital, he pointed out that on 14 march 2013 the applicant had begun the chemotherapy without having received the radiotherapy recommended by the doctors in his department. in a report of 21 september 2015, the iaşi regional institute of oncology pointed out that between 28 october and 1 november 2013, the applicant had had five radiotherapy sessions, had kept the medical appointments made and had been neither handcuffed nor immobilised during those sessions.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in st petersburg. she is the mother of the late mr denis aleksandrovich vyrzhikovskiy. two police officers then took the applicant’s son and ms z. to another police station. ms z. later testified to having seen a bruise on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s forehead and to his having been in pain and having had difficulties getting into a police car. early in the morning on 2 october 2010 mr vyrzhikovskiy was taken from the station to a hospital. a pathologist also found the following ante mortem injuries on mr vyrzhikovskiy’s body, all directly linked to his death: massive bruises covering hands, chest, upper back, neck, armpits and most of his face and ears; bruises on the left hip, right palm, right part of the stomach, right thigh, left knee, both calves; abrasions and bruises on the buttocks. all injuries had been inflicted by hard blunt objects. on 12 october 2010 criminal investigation was initiated. the applicant was granted victim status in the proceedings. several police officers were charged with manslaughter and abuse of powers entailing a substantial violation of individual rights, committed using violence. on 26 march 2014 the moskovskiy district court of st petersburg found the officers guilty as charged and sentenced them to various terms of imprisonment. on 1 october 2014 the st petersburg city court partially quashed the judgment and acquitted officers of manslaughter for lack of evidence. while having found it established that the injuries had been inflicted on the applicant’s son intentionally in the police custody, the city court remitted the case for an additional investigation in order to identify those responsible for his death. on 12 november 2015 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg upheld that decision as lawful. the decision became final on 27 january 2016.
the applicant was born in 1960 and is detained in nizhniy tagil. on 20 january 2009 the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded the applicant in custody on suspicion of fraud. the authorised detention period was subsequently extended on several occasions. on 16 february 2010 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial. it directed the prosecution to remedy certain defects and extended the authorised period of the applicant’s detention until 22 april 2010. on 21 april 2010 the sverdlovsk regional court heard an appeal against that detention order and decided that the applicant could be released on bail. by a supplementary decision taken on the following day in the absence of the applicant and his representatives, the regional court fixed the time-limit for posting bail until 11 may 2010. on 29 april 2010 that decision was sent by fax to the remand prison where the applicant was held. he was however unable to post the bail because the district court did not have a deposit account. on 12 may 2010 the district court held that the applicant must be re-detained for his failure to comply with the bail conditions. it did not set any time-limit for the application of the custodial measure. on 2 june 2010 the regional court quashed the detention order, finding that the detention order had lacked a basis in fact. it annulled the custodial measure and ordered the applicant’s release. the applicant was released on 4 june 2010. the conditions of the applicant’s detention in remand prison iz-66/1 can be summarised as follows:(a)  cell 622, from january to june 2009, measured 30 square metres and accommodated 20 to 25 persons who took turns to sleep; windows were not glazed; the toilet was not separated from the living area;(b)  cell 129, june and july 2009, 9 square metres and 6 inmates;(c)  cell 407, july 2009, 12 square metres and 12 to 14 inmates;(d)  cell 408, august 2009 to april 2010, same as above;(e)  cell 155, april 2010, 15 square metres;(f)  cell 134, may 2010, 14 square metres for 8 inmates.
the applicant company was established in 1991 and has its registered office in bratislava. it is the operator of two private television channels and the broadcaster of a television programme, joj plus. the present case concerns a commentary (glosa) delivered during a television programme broadcast on 12 april 2010 after the crash of the plane in which the late president of poland, lech kaczynski, had been travelling. even ordinary citizens, not bound by any protocol, are expressing their sorrow. jews, homosexuals, liberals, feminists and left‑oriented intellectuals are bitterly sorry for the death of a man who represented an extreme polish conservativism, and who was a symbol of a country where people who are not white heterosexual catholic poles were born as a punishment. as amended - “the broadcasting act”), on 25 may 2010. on 14 september 2010 the broadcasting council found that the applicant company had breached its obligations under the broadcasting act in that the manner of processing and presenting the content of the commentary had interfered with the dignity of the late polish president, lech kaczynski. it fined the applicant company 5,000 euros (eur). the broadcasting council assessed the conflict between the applicant company’s freedom of expression and the protection of the human dignity of the late president. on the one hand, it acknowledged the aim of the commentator to express his opinion and his subjective stance on the social and political event through criticism, sarcasm and irony, which were inherent to journalistic expression. the broadcasting council concluded that the manner in which the commentator had presented his opinion – that is to say his lack of regret for the polish president’s death – had contravened the duty to respect his human dignity. on 27 july 2011 the constitutional court rejected the applicant company’s complaint. it considered, inter alia, that the above-mentioned authorities had duly explained their conclusions, without having overly strayed from a reasonable interpretation of the applicable rules and established practice. the constitutional court noted that the impugned commentary had expressed not only sarcasm and criticism of the late president’s policy but also a positive attitude towards his death. given that it had rejected the complaint concerning the alleged violation of procedural rules, it also had to reject the complaint relating to an alleged violation of a substantive provision.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in yekaterinburg. on 13 may 2009 he was arrested on suspicion of armed robbery. on the following day the verkh-isetskiy district court in yekaterinburg remanded him in custody and set the time-limit until 12 july 2009. on 13 july 2009 the district court granted a two-month extension of the detention period. the arrest record mentioned the charge, without specifying when or where the theft had been committed or why the applicant was suspected of it. on 4 august 2009 the district court issued a detention order which did not set a time-limit for the applicant’s detention or give any assessment to the existence of a “reasonable suspicion” against the applicant. further extensions of the applicant’s detention were granted by the leninskiy district court on 29 september, 20 october and 2 november 2009. the last extension order was issued in the absence of the parties. on 25 november 2009 the regional court found that extension order unlawful and set it aside, but extended the applicant’s detention for a future period. the applicant’s appeal against the extension order was rejected by the regional court on 11 june 2010. throughout the trial the applicant was held in a metal cage. on 13 may 2010 the applicant was found guilty of theft and armed robbery and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. on 18 august 2010 the regional court upheld the conviction but reduced the sentence to three years’ imprisonment. on 24 june 2010 the applicant’s mother died. when his father died on 5 november 2010, the director of the correctional colony in sosnovoborsk in the krasnoyarsk region also refused his request for a short-term absence, on account of the funeral being held outside of the region where the colony was located.
a list of the applicants is set out in the appendix. on 21 november 1994 the applicants were taken into police custody. their statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. all the applicants confessed to having committed the crimes with which they had been charged. on 28 december 1994 they were remanded in custody. on 24 january 1995 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicants (except for eyyup yaşar), charging them under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory. on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judges sitting on the bench of the state security courts were replaced by civilian judges. on 4 december 2001 the diyarbakır state security court convicted the applicants as charged. on 20 november 2002 the court of cassation quashed the convictions. state security courts were abolished on 16 june 2004 pursuant to law no. the case was accordingly transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 22 february 2007 the diyarbakır assize court again convicted the applicants under section 125 of the criminal code and sentenced them to life imprisonment. on 6 february 2008 the court of cassation upheld the convictions.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in moscow. the background facts relating to the planning, conduct and dispersal of the public event at bolotnaya square are set out in more detail in frumkin v. russia (no. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. ... the court concludes that there are grounds to consider that [the applicant], if at liberty, is likely to abscond from the investigation and trial, to act in person or through proxy with the aim of avoiding criminal liability, to continue [his] criminal activity, to destroy evidence and otherwise obstruct the investigation, which is at its initial phase. on 17 april 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order. the decision concerned eleven defendants. on the same day the applicant was released from pre-trial detention. on 26 september 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court extended the applicant’s house arrest until 2 january 2014. on 31 january 2013 the applicant was examined by a neurologist and received a prescription for treatment in relation to vegetative-vascular dystonia. upon his admission he was found to be suffering from second- or third-degree obesity (at this stage he weighed 109 kg and was 178 cm in height) and was prescribed the same diet as before. according to the journal of their visits, the applicant did not complain of inadequate medical assistance in iz-77/1. the applicant received a prescription for physiotherapy and a special diet; he was also recommended to undergo a magnetic resonance imaging procedure in relation to a suspected cerebral condition, which had to be carried out in a different hospital equipped with the appropriate scanning device. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back was identical to that in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). 338 and at the end of july moved to hearing room no. the defendants, including the applicant, were held in glass cabins in both hearing rooms, as described in yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 74‑76).
the applicants were born in 1961 and 1996 respectively and live in muğla. the first applicant was the husband and the second applicant was the son of mrs özlem gürakın, who died on 3 september 2001. on an unspecified date, the applicants brought compensation proceedings against the dokuz eylül university hospital, alleging that mrs özlem gürakın had been a victim of medical negligence. the applicants further requested legal aid for the court fees. in respect of their legal aid claim, they submitted documents attesting to their poor financial situation. on 13 december 2006 the izmir administrative court rejected the applicants’ legal aid claim, without indicating any specific reasons. they were notified that they had to pay 1,683 turkish liras (try) (approximately 870 euros (eur)) in court fees within one month to continue the proceedings and that failure to do so would result in the discontinuation of the proceedings. as the applicants failed to pay the court fees within the time-limit, the i̇zmir administrative court sent a further warning letter to the applicants and ordered them to pay the court fees. on 6 april 2007 the applicants made a second request for legal aid and asked the court to reconsider its former decision. on 20 april 2007 the izmir administrative court once again rejected the applicants’ request and granted them one month to pay the court fees. on 12 july 2007 the court decided to discontinue the proceedings, because the applicants had not paid the necessary court fees.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in valuyki, the belgorod region. on 14 june 2006 ms i., a university student, disappeared. according to the applicant, on the morning of 17 june 2006 the police searched his flat without drawing up a record. according to the applicant, he was subjected to beatings and given electric shocks by police officers of the sovetskiy police department in order to make him give information about i.’s whereabouts. when he was ready to give a statement in order to stop the torture, he was taken to a river bank and shown a dead body. the applicant was then taken to the place where he had allegedly hidden i.’s body. at 12.50 a.m. on 20 june 2006 investigator s. arrested the applicant as a suspect and questioned him between 1 and 1.50 a.m., and then between 11 and 11.15 a.m., in the presence of p., a state-appointed lawyer invited by investigator s. the applicant reiterated his earlier self‑incriminating statements, as well as the statements concerning his ill‑treatment at the severnyy police department. the applicant also showed where he had hidden the victim’s mobile telephone. in the criminal proceedings that followed the applicant was represented by a lawyer hired for him by his family. on 28 june 2006 investigator s. communicated the applicant’s allegations concerning the unlawful actions of the police officers from the severnyy police department to the kominternovskiy district prosecutor’s office of voronezh. his two decisions of 1 july and 2 august 2006 were annulled by his superiors on the grounds that they had been based on an incomplete inquiry. no physical force was used against him, and no complaints were made by him. in the most recent refusal of 21 september 2006 to institute criminal proceedings for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed, the investigator found, relying on statements by the operative officers of the sovetskiy police department, that the applicant had been taken to the station with his consent and had confessed to the murder of i. he had also shown where he had hidden her body voluntarily, without any coercion. on 25 october 2006 the district court convicted the applicant of aggravated murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. applications by the applicant for supervisory review of his case were dismissed by the regional court.
he is currently detained at săpoca psychiatric hospital, in a section of the hospital located in the municipality of ojasca (buzău county). the applicant has been in receipt of a second-degree disability allowance since 1993. 20 initiated a criminal prosecution against the applicant. a forensic medical report was drawn up on 2 november 2001 establishing that the applicant suffered from chronic paranoid schizophrenia and lack of discernment. lastly, it referred the case file to the competent court for confirmation of the preventive measure of medical detention. the applicant was provided with a neuroleptic- and tranquilliser-based treatment. it pointed out, however, that he had been hostile during the examination and had expressed delusional ideas of injustice and his intention to remedy the latter. on 9 january 2009, on appeal from the applicant, buzău county court upheld that decision. by decision of 18 february 2010 buzău district court dismissed a request submitted by the applicant for the lifting of the detention measure. by decision of 1 april 2010 buzău district court maintained the detention measure in respect of the applicant. furthermore, although this aspect was not mentioned by the court, it transpires from that report that the applicant’s gp had noted an erotomaniac obsession with his former wife, which had indicated a total incapacity for social reintegration and would most likely have triggered conflicts or unforeseeable, potentially dangerous situations had he returned to the apartment where he had lived with his family. in november 2010, may and november 2011 and april 2012 the delegated judge requested the buzău institute of forensic medicine to carry out psychiatric assessments with a view to periodic reviews of the need to maintain the applicant’s psychiatric detention. (b) measures taken by the national administrative and hospital authorities 65. it referred to the forensic medical report of 25 january 2017 (see paragraph 70 above) and to the “aim of the preventive measures, which was to put an end to a situation of danger and prevent the perpetration of acts punishable under criminal law”. he emphasised that releasing the applicant without adequate support would condemn him to vagrancy, destitution and the deterioration of his physical and mental health.
in may 2008 the first applicant turned to the child welfare authorities because she was pregnant and was in a difficult situation: she did not have a permanent home and was temporarily staying with her parents, the fourth and fifth applicants. in the decision they stated that the family centre’s staff had had to check on the family every third hour to make sure that x was receiving enough food. the child welfare authorities appealed against the city court’s judgment and concurrently applied for its implementation to be suspended. furthermore, the high court referred to the report of 5 december 2008 from the child psychiatry clinic (see paragraph 12 above). as the stay at the family centre had been short, the high court found it appropriate to consider the first applicant’s behaviour (“fungering”) during the contact sessions that had been organised subsequent to x’s placement in foster care. in conclusion to the question of the first applicant’s competence as a carer, she stated in her report that the stay at the family centre had illustrated that the first applicant “had problems handling and retaining information in such a manner that it could be used to guide her behaviour”. in this connection, the high court attached weight to the fact that both the first applicant and her immediate family had said that they did not want follow-up or assistance if x was returned to them. the reports from the contact sessions between the mother and [x] consistently show that she is still unable to focus on [x] and what is best for him, but is influenced by her very negative view of the foster mother and of the child welfare service. she also claimed that the visits between her and x had worked well. moreover, x had a good attachment to his foster family and had lived with them for over three years. the first applicant was present together with her legal counsel. the first applicant believed that returning him would be unproblematic and still did not understand why the child welfare authorities had had to intervene when he was placed in the emergency foster home. in the present case, the decisive factor would be whether adoption was in x’s best interests and whether consent for adoption should be given on the basis of an overall assessment. furthermore, the court took account of the fact that even if no more contact sessions were organised, the foster parents had taken a positive view of letting x contact his biological parent if he so wished. as concerned the new evidence, the court noted that the evaluation dated 21 march 2012 had been made by, inter alia, an expert who had testified before the city court and that the document would not change the outcome of the case.
he currently lives in belgium, but at the material time lived in podgorica, montenegro. according to the applicant, because of constant attacks in which his car and the apartment were damaged, the perpetrators of which were never found, he installed a camera outside his apartment. v said that the axe could serve just as well. s answered “no, no, he is a muslim, i have a sword”. between 19 and 22 october 2009 the police interviewed x, y, v, b, m, d, and three other neighbours. they had no idea who could be responsible for the incident of 22 september 2009. on 25 november 2009 the state prosecution service issued an official report (službena zabilješka) finding that the impugned words of 26 may, as well as those of 9 september 2009, which referred to the use of swords and axes, had not been addressed to either the applicant or anybody close to him, and that the incident of 15 september 2009 could not be considered a threat. on 27 november 2009 the state prosecution service asked the police to undertake measures in order to find the perpetrator. he enclosed the relevant videos, and proposed that the court hear a number of neighbours, including those he suspected. he relied on the right to private life, the right to an effective domestic remedy, and the prohibition of discrimination. on 21 october, 23 october and 30 october 2009 x, v and m.ć. on 25 december 2009 those complaints were rejected by the state prosecutor. on 26 may 2010 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against x with the state prosecution service, alleging that in august and september 2009 he had threatened to “cut [the applicant’s] gypsy head off and impale it on a pike” (nabiti na kolac). that decision was upheld by the high court on 7 march 2012. the girl apparently fainted and was admitted to hospital unconscious.
he is the grandfather of the second applicant. the second applicant was born in 1986 and lives in sarajevo. on 10 november 2005 the second applicant initiated administrative proceedings in order to obtain recognition of the veteran status of his late father. his request was rejected on 12 december 2005. the second applicant appealed on an unknown date in december 2005 or january 2006. on 26 january 2006 the competent ministry upheld the first-instance decision. on 21 january 2008 the sarajevo cantonal court quashed the decisions of 12 december 2005 and 26 january 2006, and remitted the case to the first-instance body. in the new proceedings, the second applicant’s request was again rejected. the last decision was given by the sarajevo cantonal court on 25 september 2012. it was served on the second applicant on 23 october 2012. in the meantime, on 10 october 2012, the constitutional court found a breach of the second applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in maribor. the pension rights of military personnel were regulated by and secured through the federal authorities. this was the only pension fund existing at federal level. on 25 june 1991 slovenia declared its independence. in 1992 the slovenian government issued the ordinance on the payment of advances on military pensions (see paragraph 28 below, hereinafter “the ordinance”) which regulated, on a temporary basis, the payment of military pensions to former ypa military personnel residing in the republic of slovenia who had applied for or fulfilled the conditions for retirement under the rules governing the pension and disability insurance of military personnel (hereinafter “the sfry military rules”) by 18 october 1991, the date of withdrawal of the ypa from slovenia (see p.p. the (transformed) ypa fund continued paying ypa pensions to the citizens of the federal republic of yugoslavia. 28233/08 and 2 others, § 11, 4 june 2013). he has been residing in slovenia since 1964 and has had permanent resident status since 1981. the applicant instituted court proceedings, which were unsuccessful. on 13 october 2005 the constitutional court rejected a constitutional complaint by him on the grounds that it was no longer relevant because he had acquired slovenian citizenship in 2003 (see paragraph 19 below). the institute decided that since the applicant had been in active military service in the ypa from 25 june to 18 july 1991 and from 18 july 1991 had been on leave, he did not fulfil the statutory conditions for converting the advance on his military old-age pension into an old-age pension under section 2(1)(4) of the 1998 act. it added that he could re-apply for an old-age pension under the 1998 act once he acquired slovenian citizenship. on 13 january 2006 the ljubljana labour and social court dismissed the application for judicial review (see paragraph 18 above). on 21 march 2007 the appeal was dismissed, essentially on the grounds that in the legally relevant period the applicant had been a foreigner who had not had rights to a pension or other benefits under the sfry military rules by 25 june 1991 as required by section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act. on 23 march 2009 it was dismissed by the supreme court, which followed the lower courts’ reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in gornja maoča. one police officer was severely wounded in the attack. ... 6.1.5.1  punishment of the accused (article 242 of the code of criminal procedure)having been called by the court officer to stand up when the trial chamber entered the courtroom at the first hearing, the accused refused to do so. the court thereupon warned the accused that standing up was a statutory obligation of the accused and that under article 242 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, disruptive conduct constituted contempt of court, which the court would punish by removing them from the courtroom. the transcript from the hearing was subsequently delivered to the accused. he appeared, as summoned, but refused to remove his skullcap, notwithstanding an order from the president of the trial chamber to do so. in view of that, the court has acquainted the witness with the provisions of rule 20 of the house rules of the judicial institutions of bosnia and herzegovina and the obligations of the parties in the judicial institutions, which ban visitors from entering these buildings in clothing that is not in accordance with the generally accepted dress codes within the professional environment of the judicial institutions. thus, the court is not a place where religious beliefs can be expressed in a way that discredits certain common rules and principles in a multicultural society. restraint on the part of the state in cases of this or other types of extremism can have serious consequences for the reputation of the judiciary and the stability of society in bosnia and herzegovina. on 11 october 2012 an appeals chamber of the same court reduced the fine to bam 3,000 and upheld the rest of the first-instance decision. it held that the requirement to remove any and all headgear on the premises of public institutions was one of the basic requirements of life in society. this is a universally accepted standard of conduct of the courts in bosnia and herzegovina, which is in accordance with the position of the european court, referred to in the kokkinakis judgment, that the interpretation and application of such enactments that are couched in vague terms depend on practice. the constitutional court notes that the state court relied also on rule 20 of the house rules, providing that ‘visitors must respect the dress code applicable to judicial institutions’, as an internal act of the state court and other judicial institutions. in the present case, the state court considered the repeated refusal of the appellant to comply with an order of the court to be damaging to the reputation and the dignity of a judicial institution. finally, as to the question whether the decision was necessary in a democratic society in order to achieve one of the legitimate aims under article 9 of the european convention, the constitutional court reiterates that, according to the settled case-law of the european court, the contracting states have a certain margin of appreciation in assessing the existence and extent of the need for interference, but this margin is subject to european supervision, embracing both the law and the decisions applying it, even those given by independent courts (dahlab, cited above).
the applicants complained of a breach of their property rights through the actions of russian military forces in chechnya in 2000 and the failure of the competent domestic authorities to provide them with effective remedies in respect of those breaches. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. (a)  seizure of the applicant’s vehicle 7. the applicant lived at 109 sovetskaya street, urus-martan. on 15 march 2001 the applicant informed the military prosecutor of chechnya of the unlawful seizure of his lorry and asked him to intervene. in july and august 2001 the ministry of justice replied to the investigator that no ministry serviceman by the name of iv. at some point the applicant was granted victim status and information about the vehicle was entered in the national register of missing and stolen vehicles. on the strength of the above, on 27 february 2006 the town court confirmed the applicant’s ownership of the vehicle in question. the applicant appealed, and on 4 july 2006 the supreme court of chechnya quashed the decision of 21 september 2006 and remitted the case to the urus-martan town court for fresh consideration. the application was lodged on 6 october 2008 by mr ismail amalayev, who was born in 1960 and currently lives in kiel, germany. in the evening of 14 october 2000 the applicant, his wife and aunt travelled in the applicant’s kamaz 53-20 lorry from the village of starye atagi to the chiri-yurt district of grozny, chechnya. on 25 march 2001 the grozny district prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation into the applicant’s allegations that his kamaz lorry had been shot at and been destroyed by fire by unidentified servicemen driving apc no. it does not appear that the investigation progressed beyond the facts communicated by the applicant. on 2 march 2007 the presnensky district court dismissed the claim. 205” did not exist, according to the general staff of the ministry of defence.
at the relevant time they were employed by one of the two national television stations in denmark, danmarks radio, hereafter “dr”. they are divided into different stages, called phases. generally, it can be said that the earliest phase trials may look at whether a drug is safe or at its side-effects. her questions had been answered during her conversations with professor m on 19 october 2007 and s on 22 october 2007. patients had been given the impression in the media that alimta was a miracle cure. if some patients were offered alimta everybody had to be offered alimta ... after the programme had been broadcast ... patients started mistrusting the vinorelbine therapy. the allegations were declared null and void. the [applicants] are therefore considered to have violated article 267 of the penal code. for years he has gone his own way, he has treated dying patients with chemotherapy that is not approved.’ however, s chose not to use that medication on his patients.’ they suspect that he has other interests than those of the patients. the money has been paid into s’s personal research account. with these statements, [the applicants] not only passed on assertions by patients, relatives and experts, but also took a stand, so that the programme undisputedly gave the viewers the impression that malpractice has occurred at copenhagen university hospital, in that s has deliberately used medication (vinorelbine), which is not approved for treatment of pleural mesothelioma cancer, and whose effect has not been substantiated, that the medication in question was part of a test, and that the test medication has resulted in patients dying or having their lives shortened. against this background, in the programme, the applicants, as producer of the programme and as chief sub-editor, have made an allegation against copenhagen university hospital and s of malpractice and of nourishing irrelevant considerations to the detriment of the lives and health of patients. against this background, including the fact that the word ‘approved’ was not explained during the programme, namely the difference between medication approved for treatment and [medication] approved for marketing, and by consistently using the word “test medication”, even though only one patient in the programme participated in tests, [the applicants] made allegations which were based on an incorrect factual basis, of which they must have been aware via the research material.
they now live in switzerland, where they were granted asylum in july 2017 (see paragraph 31 below). born respectively in 1999, 2004 and 2014, are their sons. shortly before the border, the applicants switched cars, getting into a toyota sports utility vehicle, which was supposed to take them through a wooded area to the border itself. the first officer could not catch up with the driver and came back. the government also pointed out that in a video submitted by the applicants (see paragraph 15 below), travel bags and personal effects were visible inside their cell. after the search, the arrestees were split into two groups. according to the applicants, the cell was hot and its window could not be opened. a single crumpled‑up bed sheet lies on one of the mattresses on the floor. personal effects, such as a small shoulder bag, training shoes and some litter, are strewn about. the footage in both files is identical, except that: (a) the faces of the applicants in the first one have been pixelated (whereas in the second they have not); (b) the running time of the first video is one minute and twenty-one seconds (whereas that of the second is one minute and thirty-two seconds, as it continues for another ten seconds); and (c) in the first file the footage is horizontal whereas in the second it is rotated to the right at a ninety-degree angle. in a letter to the government agent, an official from the migration directorate of the ministry of internal affairs in sofia, having compared the video footage with the photographs in the applicants’ migration files, stated that he could confirm that the applicants were indeed the people featured in the video. they did not provide further details in that respect. the government did not comment on that point. according to the government, the applicants were provided with food and water, in accordance with the relevant regulations. according to the applicants, at about midday on 19 august 2015 they were given back their belongings and driven to an immigration detention facility in sofia.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in riga. on 23 april 2003 criminal proceedings were instituted. on 29 april 2003 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of attempted bribery. on 25 july 2003 he was released and police supervision was imposed instead, under which he was obliged not to leave his home district without the authorisation of the investigation authorities, and to report to the local police department twice a week. the first hearing was scheduled to take place from 1 to 4 august 2005. on 1 october 2005 the new criminal procedure law entered into force; it introduced new rules concerning, inter alia, conflicts of interest faced by judges. in the light of the new rules, on 22 february 2006 the hearing was adjourned because one of the judges of the riga regional court had had to recuse herself from the trial. on 13 november 2006 the hearing was adjourned once again owing to d.e. was being treated to provide information about her state of health. on the same day the riga regional court ordered that d.e. was able to participate in the proceedings. on 27 september 2007 the riga regional court scheduled the next hearing for 27 december 2007. ’s lawyer requested that that hearing be rescheduled in order to accommodate his taking planned holidays. on 11 january 2008 the riga regional court started to hear the parties’ arguments regarding the merits of the case. on 15 january 2008 it convicted the applicant of attempted bribery and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment.
in 1957 several plots of land (agricultural land at the time) were expropriated from the applicants’ legal predecessors. on 15 september 2003 the ministry of finance’s restitution commission (“the restitution commission”) granted the applicants’ claims and awarded them compensation, the form of which was to be determined by a separate decision. on 4 december 2003 the applicants appealed, arguing that, inter alia, the land was undeveloped and could be restored to their possession. were the urban plan to be implemented in the future, the land could be expropriated anew. on 31 may 2005 the the second-instance administrative-procedure commission in the area of denationalisation (комисија за решавање во управна постапка во втор степен од областа на денационализацијата – “the second-instance commission”) dismissed the applicants’ appeal finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasons given by the restitution commission. on 21 september 2005 the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim with the supreme court reiterating that the land within the campsite was undeveloped and could therefore be restored to their possession. in submissions lodged subsequently, they further referred to decision no. 44-530/1 of 7 march 2006 in which the second-instance commission had accepted a similar claim and ordered that a neighbouring plot of land located within the same campsite had been restored to possession of the claimants. on 7 february 2008 the administrative court, which had in the meantime become competent to decide administrative-dispute claims, dismissed the applicants’ claim and upheld the findings of the administrative authorities. relying on an on-site inspection of 13 may 2002 and a certificate of 15 september 2002 issued by the competent ministry, it established that the plot in question was located within the boundaries of the campsite; that it had been designated as a public green zone and that pedestrian paths and other similar infrastructure were planned for construction. it concluded accordingly that the plot could not be restored to the applicants’ possession. an appeal by the applicants of 7 april 2004 was dismissed by the second-instance commission on 15 november 2005. the applicants lodged an administrative-dispute claim in which, alike the applicants in application no. 44-530/1 and asked the administrative court to ensure consistent application of the law. on 21 april 2008 the administrative court dismissed the applicants’ claim, finding no grounds to depart from the established facts and the reasoning given by the administrative authorities.
the applicant was born in 1973, lives in austria since 2001 and is currently in detention pending extradition at vienna-josefstadt prison. the applicant testified as a witness during that trial. he claimed that the accusations had been invented by s.lu. as revenge for the applicant’s having testified against him during the criminal proceedings in austria. they could easily get to him in prison by using their connections. it held that during the extradition proceedings, the court was not called on to examine whether the applicant was guilty or innocent, but merely to assess whether there was enough evidence to raise suspicions against him, which according to the documents submitted by the kosovo authorities was the case. none of the evidence offered by the applicant had been capable of dispelling these suspicions immediately and without doubt, as would have been required by section 33(2) of the extradition and legal aid act (auslieferungs- und rechtshilfegesetz – hereinafter “the extradition act”). it could equally be argued that the applicant had wanted to take revenge on s.lu. a very influential member of that clan, was detained at mitrovica prison and following extradition to kosovo, he would be detained at that prison as well. was convicted in kosovo for issuing a dangerous threat against the applicant, which demonstrated that the kosovo authorities were indeed capable of taking adequate measures to protect the applicant. concerning the conditions of detention, the court held that the report on kosovo by the committee for the prevention of torture (hereinafter “the cpt”) of 2011 (see paragraph 30 below) did not state that ill-treatment was the rule in kosovo prisons, but that there were merely sporadic incidents of violence. on 20 june 2016 the applicant requested that the court indicate to the austrian government to stay his extradition to kosovo under rule 39 of the rules of court. on 22 june 2016 the court granted the applicant’s request. he produced a certified declaration by l.q., more pertinent had been the fact that, during the criminal proceedings against l.q.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sofia. the applicant was employed as a police officer in 1977. after having participated in several international missions, in 2001 he applied for a position as police observer in a new mission. the result of the assessment was negative and the applicant was not included in the contingent to be sent to the international mission. the applicant complained of the negative result of his psychological assessment to the head of the institute, but was informed, in a letter dated 1 february 2002, that a check-up had shown that the assessment had been objective and correct. thus, the applicant’s application to join the new mission was rejected. the applicant complained of this outcome to the minister of the interior and other bodies, such as the parliamentary commission on internal security and public order and the president of the republic. this conclusion was upheld on 30 july 2004 by the supreme administrative court. on 31 january 2005 the minister of the interior issued a decision refusing the applicant access to his personnel file. he relied in general terms on the provisions of section 34(3) of the protection of personal data act and section 182(7) of the ministry of the interior act, as in force at the time (see paragraphs 22 and 25 below). he explained that personnel files of officers contained information on “the enquiries in respect of a person applying to be employed” at the ministry and information revealing the ministry’s “structures, positions and functions”. it was explained further that even though personnel files also comprised documents which contained no sensitive information, owing to the presence of some classified documents the files had to be classified in their entirety. the applicant applied for judicial review. in a judgment of 25 march 2008 a three-member panel of the supreme administrative court dismissed the application for judicial review. in the proceedings before the court the government submitted copies of the applicant’s psychological assessments of september 2001 and october 2002.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in enfield (united kingdom). 46113/99 and 7 others, §§ 4-16, echr 2010). the total area of the land is some 18 dönüm.[1] 10. in 2007 the applicant instructed a law firm in nicosia, which duly obtained a valuation report on the land from a turkish cypriot chartered surveyor. in february 2017 the applicant obtained a new valuation report from the land registration office of the republic of cyprus which assessed the value of the property in question, including economic loss and interest accrued since 1997 (when the applicant became owner of the property) to december 2016, at eur 2,088,366 in total. in her affidavit the applicant attested that the property in question had been transferred to her after 1974 by her aunt, who had owned it since before 1974. it relied on an affidavit by the “trnc” director of the land registry and surveys department, who explained that their records showed that one of the registered owners of the property in question was chrystollou nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s aunt), that maria nicola stavrinou (the applicant’s mother) was the owner of part of one of the plots of land, and that the applicant had failed to demonstrate that she was the legal heir of the two registered owners. he also considered that the applicant’s compensation claim was excessive and unfounded. a directions hearing before the ipc took place on 25 may 2010. on 3 june 2010 the attorney general submitted the search document of the “trnc” land registry and surveys department relating to the plots included in the applicant’s claim. the hearing was adjourned to enable the applicant to obtain the documents in question. a further examination of the case before the ipc took place on 1 march 2016. they also stated that they would not represent the applicant in further proceedings. the applicant contended that these arguments were being raised for the first time now and she therefore asked for a formal hearing to be opened in her case. the proceedings before the ipc are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in pskov. the applicant described events at the police station as follows. f. and k. had demanded that he stand facing a wall, hands raised, and had searched him. on the same day officer k. lodged a criminal complaint that at 2.10 a.m. on 17 august 2005 the applicant had sworn at him through an open car window when passing by. it noted that f. and k. had “categorically” denied that they had beaten up the applicant. on 8 may 2007 the novyy toryal police brought administrative proceedings against the applicant, issuing administrative-offence records and a decision which stated that at 1 a.m. on 31 march 2007 the applicant had driven a car without a licence plate and without a driving licence and had not stopped the car on a police officer’s repeated order. on 9 may 2007 a deputy prosecutor of the novyy toryal district prosecutor’s office decided that material concerning the applicant’s unlawful driving on 31 march 2007 should be examined separately from the material concerning the applicant’s alleged ill-treatment. the applicant had bought it from a third person. at about 11 p.m. on 24 march 2007 the applicant was attending a discotheque at the diveyevo cultural centre when he was approached by police officer k., who led him to the police car and took him to the diveyevo district police station. relying on statements by k. and other police officers, who had denied any violence against the applicant, the investigator held that the applicant could have received the injuries when getting into the police car before being taken to the police station on 24 march 2007. he was diagnosed with sleep disorder related to the legs injuries sustained on that day and recommended a consultation and treatment by a neurologist and a trauma specialist. the applicant was born in 1969 and lived in cheboksary. in a report to his superior, officer m. stated that the applicant had behaved aggressively at the police station and that he himself had hit his head against a wall and had broken his tooth. in a record of the applicant’s administrative detention at 5.30 a.m. on 28 may 2008, drawn up at 5.32 a.m. that day, an officer on duty at the police station noted the applicant’s complaint that the police officers had inflicted injuries on him. the expert concluded that the bruising and fracture of the nose (which had resulted in short-term health problems lasting up to three weeks, that is to say minor harm to the applicant’s health), the bruising in the area of both eyes and the cheek bones and the bleeding to the sclera of both eyes could have been sustained on 28 may 2008 as a result of impacts from hard blunt objects.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lived in moscow. in june 1998 he deposited 5,187.40 united states dollars in a three‑month account with russian credit, a private bank. in august 1998 the country suffered a financial crisis, the rouble fell, and the bank defaulted. in december 1998 the applicant accepted the bank’s offer to settle and close his account in return for the balance in depreciated roubles. by the time the money reached the applicant in march 1999, the rouble had depreciated further. in october 1999 the bank went into external administration and its debt repayments were frozen pending a restructuring. in may 2000 the bank and its creditors negotiated a group settlement of the pre-october 1999 debt and had it approved by the courts. the settlement discharged the bank from fines, penalties, default interest, and damages arising under legislation, contracts with clients, and court decisions. in december 2001 the applicant sued the bank for the loss caused by the exchange-rate fluctuations between the day he had accepted the bank’s offer and the day the money had arrived. the bank objected to that claim on the ground that it had extinguished its obligations by repaying the deposit to the applicant. on 17 april 2002 the golovinskiy district court of moscow awarded the applicant 77,603.50 russian roubles (rub)[1]. in may 2003 the applicant filed a writ of execution with a bailiff. on 17 june 2003, on the application of the bank, the district court terminated the enforcement of its judgment in view of the group settlement. on 14 august 2003 the moscow city court upheld the district court’s decision, finding that the applicant’s individual claim was to be settled with the group claim. the city court said:when terminating the [enforcement] proceedings the [district court] has referred to the provisions of section 439 of the code of civil procedure and reached the conclusion that the terms of the said friendly settlement regarding the restructuring of the credit obligations of [russian credit] extended also to [the applicant].
their initials, dates of birth, application numbers and the other details of their cases are set out in the appendix. at the time of lodging their applications the applicants were detained at detention centres for foreign nationals run by the federal migration service (hereinafter “the fms”) in different towns in russia. on various dates between 2012 and 2016 the applicants came to russia on various visas and did not leave when the period of their stay had expired. one of the applicants did not appeal against his expulsion order (see the appendix for the details of individual cases) 10. were detained in a detention centre for foreign nationals run by the fms in krasnoye selo, in the leningrad region. each storey comprised around ten to eleven cells. in particular, according to a report of the human rights ombudsman in saint petersburg, on 26 february 2014 the centre accommodated 400 foreign nationals. all places in the cell were occupied during the whole period of their detention. the cell was furnished with three bunk beds and two bedside tables. the food was of poor quality, with no fruit or vegetables, and included pork, which the applicants could not eat for religious reasons. detainees were not allowed to receive fermented milk products, home‑cooked food, fruit or vegetables. detainees had no free access to drinking water or devices to boil tap water. outdoor exercise was sporadic and lasted around 15-20 minutes. in the period april-may 2014 they were able to enjoy outdoor exercise only four times. the facility did not offer any activities, and no library was available.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. on 11 july 2000 the adana magistrate’s court ordered the detention of the applicant in absentia. on 20 july 2000 the applicant was questioned by the gendarmerie in the absence of his lawyer. in his statement, the applicant gave a detailed description about his involvement in an illegal organisation and the activities in which he had taken part. subsequently, he was brought before the public prosecutor at the adana state security court. during the interview, the applicant stated, again in the absence of a lawyer, that his statements made to the gendarmerie had been correct. on 15 september 2000 the investigating judge at the mardin magistrate’s court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention, again in the absence of a lawyer. on 24 october 2000 the public prosecutor lodged an indictment before the adana state security court, charging the applicant under section 125 of the former criminal code with carrying out activities with the aim of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory. on 25 october 2005 the adana assize court convicted the applicant as charged. on 26 april 2006 the court of cassation quashed the conviction. on 6 november 2007 the adana assize court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the gendarmerie and the public prosecutor, the applicant had committed the offence under section 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 12 november 2008 the court of cassation upheld the conviction.
the applicants were born in 1982 and 1981 respectively. on 22 april 2006 upon receipt of intelligence reports that the youth branch of the pkk would be holding a meeting in the premises of a cooperative, the police officers, under the orders of the magistrates’ court, conducted a search in the premises of the co-operative of which the applicants were members. the police seized several documents and cds that contained propaganda materials related to the youth branch of the pkk. on the same day the applicants were taken into custody on suspicion of being members of a terrorist organisation. on 24 april 2006 the urfa magistrates’ court ordered the applicants’ detention on remand. on 27 april 2006 and 28 april 2006, respectively, the applicants filed objections against their pre-trial detention. during the pre-trial stage, the magistrates’ court continued to examine, by virtue of article 108 of law no. 5271, the necessity of applicants’ continued detention every thirty days on the basis of the case file, without holding an oral hearing. the applicants also filed objections against their continued pre-trial detention, namely on 15 june, 12 july, 17 july, 1 august and 17 october 2006. all these objections were examined on the basis of the case file and were rejected by the domestic courts. on 10 october 2006 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court charging the applicants, along with twenty three other persons, with aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation under article 314 of the criminal code (law no. on 30 november 2006 the diyarbakır assize court held its first hearing and the applicants appeared before the court. on the same day, the applicants were released pending trial. on 4 november 2008 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicants of the charges against them. in the absence of an appeal, this judgment became final on 12 november 2008.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in ankara. the applicant is the owner of an apartment in ankara. on an unspecified date, the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court against the çankaya municipality and the ankara metropolitan municipality for the annulment of the construction permit pertaining to a neighboring building which was being built opposite his apartment. on 14 december 1999 the ankara administrative court accepted the applicant’s request and revoked the construction permit based on a breach of height restrictions. according to this judgment, the building in question was constructed 1.48 meters higher than the norm that was laid down in the zoning plan in force. on 17 february 2000 the çankaya municipal executive committee (belediye encümeni) ordered the demolition of the illegally constructed part of the building in order to comply with the administrative court’s judgment. however, it did not implement the said decision. on 19 november 2001 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s judgment. in the meantime, on 3 august 2001 the çankaya municipal council (belediye meclisi) amended the zoning plan and sent its decision to the ankara metropolitan municipality for approval. on 26 october 2001 the ankara metropolitan municipality withheld its approval, holding that the zoning plan had been amended with the aim of legalizing the previously revoked building permit and thereby avoiding the demolition of the illegal construction. on 5 december 2001 the çankaya municipal council insisted in its previous decision and the amended zoning plan thus came into force. subsequently on 31 december 2001 the applicant brought a case before the ankara administrative court for the annulment of the çankaya municipal council’s decision of 5 december 2001. on 31 march 2003 the ankara administrative court annulled the said decision for, inter alia, encouraging unlicensed construction practices. on 21 february 2005 the supreme administrative court upheld the administrative court’s decision and on 18 october 2005 it rejected the çankaya municipality’s rectification request. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 december 2005.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in babushkin, republic of buryatiya, russia. allegedly, police officers threatened him with murder and ill-treatment if he refused to make a confession. in the presence of counsel, he made a written statement confessing to a murder. on 6 june 2007 the sverdlovsk regional court (“the regional court”) upheld the judgment. in the meantime, on 4 april 2005 the applicant had tested positive for hiv. between september 2006 and 2010 the applicant unsuccessfully sought the institution of criminal proceedings against g. for the disclosure of private information, which was an offence under article 137 § 1 of the criminal code (see paragraph 38 below). in the resumed proceedings, on 13 february 2009 the district court noted that the applicant no longer wished to pursue the judicial complaint, and discontinued it. on 28 september 2009 the district court confirmed the refusal to prosecute dated 23 january 2009. apparently, the applicant did not appeal. 301, which measured 20 square metres and accommodated five people. on 18 january 2005 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 205, which measured 20 square metres and accommodated up to twenty-five people, despite having only sixteen beds. furthermore, the applicant provided a detailed account of the conditions of his detention between july 2005 and july 2007, conditions which were also cramped or unacceptable and where, at times, he was not able to have an individual bed. by a letter of 2 october 2008 the sverdlovsk prosecutor’s office supervising prisons confirmed that the applicant had been afforded between 0.9 and 3.8 square metres of cell space. by a letter of 2 december 2008 the prosecutor’s office of the sverdlovsk region informed the applicant that, following an inspection, it could be not confirmed that the cell toilets were not separated from the main area.
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in bezhetsk, tver region. according to the indictment, on 15 october 2010 ms k., who had not been previously known to the applicant, invited him and mr a. to the apartment of mr x. in the apartment they found mr x. lying on the floor in a state of heavy alcoholic intoxication. the criminal case against the applicant and mr a. was examined by the tsentralniy district court of tver (центральный районный суд г. твери) (hereinafter “the district court”). when discharged from hospital in november 2010, the symptoms of withdrawal syndrome had receded and there were no signs of acute psychiatric disorders. on 27 january 2011 the district court received a certificate from a regional psychoneurology clinic. according to the certificate, in 2008 ms k. had been diagnosed with an organic mental disorder of complex origin (perinatal and alcohol induced), hallucino-paranoid syndrome with mild personality changes, and alcohol-withdrawal symptoms. on 2 and 8 february 2011 the district court heard several prosecution witnesses, mostly relatives, neighbours and acquaintances of the persons involved. ms k. was duly summoned to both hearings, but did not appear and provided no reasons for her absence. on 10 february 2011 at the request of the defence the district court issued a subpoena ordering the bailiffs to ensure ms k.’s presence at the next hearing. the prosecutor’s request that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court was denied and the hearing was adjourned until further information on the witness’s health had been received from the doctors. on the same day during the hearing, the prosecutor, referring to the above-mentioned letter, repeatedly requested that ms k.’s pre-trial statements be read out in court on account of her in-patient treatment, the fact that her presence at trial could not be ensured, and because the date of her discharge from the clinic was unclear. accordingly, her testimony could not be used as evidence in the case against the applicant. on 12 april 2011 the district court convicted the applicant and mr a. of manslaughter and sentenced them to ten and eight years’ imprisonment respectively in a high-security correctional facility. this fact is further confirmed by the testimony of ms d., the investigator, given at trial.]
the applicant was born in 1982 in venezuela and is currently detained in valdemoro prison. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. on 23 january 2015 the public prosecutor submitted a report stating that the guarantees provided by the united states were adequate and that consequently extradition should be granted. this chamber, given that the president of this court has duly empowered it to decide about this matter, considers that the referral is not necessary as the assurances given are correct and sufficient, and furthermore show compliance with the ecthr case-law in the trabelsi vs belgium case referred to by the appellant ....therefore, if the assurances given by the u.s. on 25 may 2015 the audiencia nacional ordered the applicant’s provisional detention (auto). on 3 june 2015 the audiencia nacional issued a new decision dismissing the súplica appeals lodged by the applicant and confirming the decision on the applicant’s imprisonment pending extradition to the united states. ...the guarantees provided have been considered sufficient for the court. 57592/08, 3 february 2015)], as well as the judgment of 13 november 2014 [bodein v. france, no. on 19 june 2015 the applicant was detained for the purposes of being extradited to the united states. on 1 july 2015 the constitutional court issued a decision declaring the amparo appeal and the request for interim measures inadmissible. 2/1919 had already passed when he had lodged his amparo appeal. in essence, lopez elorza, a veterinarian, is charged with having been a member of a conspiracy between september 2004 and january 2005, the goal of which was to import heroin into the united states for subsequent distribution, in which lopez elorza’s role was to surgically implant packages of liquid heroin into the bodies of dogs that later were transported to the united states. in assisting the court in considering the above seven factors, defense counsel will be able to present to the court in detail any mitigating factors relating to these criteria. the report specifically stressed that the bureau of prisons could reduce the applicant’s sentence if it found that there was “an extraordinary and compelling reason to do so; for example, if a medical condition arose with lópez elorza that would warrant such a modification”. finally, the applicant could also seek executive clemency in the form of commutation (reduction) of his sentence.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in nizhniy novgorod region. they found that the applicant was self-confident, domineering and inclined to lie. the applicant strived to spend a lot of time with the children and was against punishing them. i. took good care of the children and did not prevent them from seeing their father. according to witness statements, i. had always taken good care of the children. it was i. who had always accompanied them to school and extracurricular activities. on 22 march 2013 the childcare authority issued its opinion on the case. the court took note of the expert report of 19 january 2012 (see paragraph 11 above), observing that the experts had found that the parent-child relationships were complicated in the applicant’s family. both v. and n. had stated many times that they wanted to live with him. the applicant and i. were attending mediation sessions. she did not prevent the applicant from seeing the children as much as he liked. the childcare authorities had found that the children had been equally attached to both parents. on 3 march 2016 the vladimir regional court upheld that decision on appeal. on 8 february 2016 the oktyabrskiy district court rejected the bailiffs’ request, finding that the children’s residence abroad was not a sufficient reason to suspend the enforcement proceedings. on 24 may 2016 the leninskiy district court refused the applicant’s application for an interim order, finding that he had not proved that the failure to take interim measures might complicate or make impossible the execution of the forthcoming judgment.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in čačak. on 7 september 2005 the applicant instituted civil proceedings before the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in kotor seeking redress regarding various contractual issues. on 4 december 2008 the court of first instance in kotor ruled in favour of the applicant. on 17 november 2009 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica upheld this judgment on appeal. on 20 may 2010 the supreme court quashed the previous judgments and ordered a re-trial. on 12 august 2011 the court of first instance in kotor ruled against the applicant. this judgment was upheld by the high court in podgorica and the supreme court on 6 april 2012 and 12 september 2012 respectively. the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicant on 20 october 2012. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 28 november 2012. on 30 june 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 25 september 2015.
they were born in 1971, 1968, 1992, 1995, and live in samara. on 11 may 2004 the judgment came into force. on 28 may 2004 the department of the bailiffs’ service for oktyabrskiy district of samara opened the enforcement proceedings. on 22 december 2004 the enforcement proceedings were terminated as the company had no available residential accommodation. on 1 october 2007, due to the reorganisation of the company (see paragraph 16 below), the enforcement file was sent to the department of the bailiffs’ service for the engelsskiy district of saratov region. on 21 april 2008 the bailiffs ruled that it was impossible to enforce the judgment in the part relating to the housing, as the new debtor, fgup 9 tsarz (see paragraph 16 below), had no available accommodation. the enforcement proceedings were terminated. on 14 october 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court clarified the judgment of 26 april 2004 stating that the applicants should be provided with an apartment in samara. each time the courts rejected the applications finding that a payment of the amount representing the cost of an apartment would be equal to modifying the original judgment. the judgment of 26 april 2004 remained unenforced. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. according to its articles of association, the company’s aim was to produce goods and render services for the ministry of defense of russia, as well as for meeting other public needs and making a profit. under the order of the federal agency for state property management dated 22 september 2005 the company was joined to fgup 9 tsarz (fgup 9 tsentralnyy avtomobilnyy remontnyy zavod – фгуп 9 царз or фгуп 9 центральный автомобильный ремонтный завод). the reorganisation was completed on 13 february 2007, and the latter company became the universal successor of the company. in accordance with the decree of the president of russia of 15 september 2008 and the decree of the russian government of 22 november 2008, fgup 9 tsarz was further reorganized into oao 9 tsarz, a publicly-traded private open joint-stock company incorporated under the laws of russia.
the applicants were born in 1977, 1978, 1977, 1981, 1981, 1980, 1982 and 1980 respectively. upon receipt of these petitions a disciplinary investigation was initiated by the university into the applicants’ actions. on 14 february 2002, relying either on regulation 9(d) or on regulation 10(e) of the disciplinary regulations of higher education institutions, the administrative board of istanbul university, after having heard defence submissions from some of the applicants, either suspended them from the university for a period of two semesters (mr çölgeçen and mr salim) or expelled them from the university (mr bek, mr çalışkan, ms işık, mr ay, mr uçak and mr turğay). some of the applicants also alleged that they were subject to criminal investigations. on 9 may 2002 and on 27 june 2002 (in respect of the fifth applicant) the istanbul administrative court suspended the execution of the applicants’ disciplinary sanctions on the grounds that, inter alia, the sanctions in question were unlawful and that, therefore, their application would cause irreparable damage to the applicants. on 25 june 2002, following the notification of the aforementioned decisions to the university, the applicants, save for mr çalışkan, were all re-enrolled in their respective faculties. between march 2007 and march 2008 the istanbul district administrative court quashed the judgments of the first-instance court and dismissed the actions. foreign languages to be taught in institutions of training and education and the rules to be followed by schools conducting training and education in a foreign language shall be determined by law. the provisions of international treaties are reserved”. under section 13 of the administrative procedure act (law no. the proceedings before the administrative courts are in writing. on 2 august 2002 the law on foreign language education and teaching (law no. 2923 of 14 october 1983) was amended by law no. on 30 july 2003 an amendment was made to the second sentence of section 2 (a) of law no. 2923 with a view to enabling the opening of private courses for the teaching of the different languages and dialects used by citizens of turkey.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in kalush. and joined him, his parents and brother to live in flat a. 8. company transferred ownership of flat a to the municipality. according to the applicant, she and her son remained residents in flat a, as her marriage with v.d. was falling apart and living together had become intolerable. she and her son had never promised to relocate and had remained residents of flat a at the material time. they could therefore not be evicted without being provided with alternative accommodation. company appealed, referring to article 55 of the housing code. notably, according to articles 55 and 99 of the housing code, the applicant (together with her son) – having settled in flat a as a member of the original tenants’ family – was bound by the duty of the original tenants to vacate the flat. it had therefore had legitimate standing to seek the vacation of the flat by its previous tenants. the applicant lodged a request for leave to appeal in cassation. during this period, she had dutifully engaged in the payment of all expenses relating to her occupancy of the flat. on 15 december 2006 the applicant requested the kalush court to postpone her eviction, in particular, because she had no other accommodation and her salary was too small for her to rent private-sector housing. on 21 december 2006, while the applicant’s request was pending consideration, the state bailiffs arrived at flat a and had the applicant vacate it and surrender the keys. she submitted testimony given by various acquaintances and copies of some fixed-term lease agreements.
the applicants’ details can be found in the annex. 2 of 26 march 2001 of the ministry of internal affairs, a marriage contracted abroad between persons of the same sex, one of whom was italian, could not be registered in so far as it was contrary to the norms of public order. on 16 august 2011 the two applicants got married in toronto, ontario, canada. on 20 january 2012, the commune of peschiera borromeo informed the two applicants that it was not possible to register their marriage. according to the applicants’ submissions of 30 january 2017 their request was still pending and no reply had yet been received. the two applicants met in italy in 2002 and entered into a stable and committed relationship with each other. following guidance from the mayor of naples, directing the civil status office of the commune to register such marriages (see below), mr mario isita and mr grant bray re-submitted an application to have their marriage registered. there they established their common residence. the court of cassation went on to note that the social reality had changed, yet the italian order had not granted same-sex couples the right to marry as concluded in the court of cassation judgment no. however, the italian legal order was also made up of article 12 of the convention as interpreted by the european court of human rights in schalk and kopf (cited above); in that case the court considered that the difference of sex of spouses was irrelevant, legally, for the purposes of marriage. its articles 115 and 130, in so far as relevant, read as follows:article 115“a citizen is subject to the provisions of section one [conditions to contract marriage] of this chapter even when contracting marriage in a foreign state according to the form applicable in such foreign state ...”article 130“nobody is entitled to claim the title of spouse and the legal consequences of marriage unless a certified copy of the celebration as recorded in the family registers is presented.” other pertinent provisions of the civil code read, in so far as relevant, as follows:article 167“each or both spouses may by public deed, or a natural third person may by means of a will, create a patrimonial fund for the needs of the family, assigning selected property, real estates or other goods which are recorded in the official italian registers, or bonds.” article 17 relates to the transmission of the deed, and according to article 18 deeds contracted abroad may not be registered if they are contrary to public order. 1156, filed in the relevant registry on 8 july 2015, the milan court of appeal found in favour of the claimants. 76/2016, cohabitation agreements were not specifically provided for in italian law.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in korostyshiv. in april 2007 the applicant, having sentenced i. to fifteen days’ imprisonment for disorderly conduct, had the site manager for the house renovation, mr sh., the same scheme was used to exploit i. on the construction site. on the first and second pages, where his rights as a witness were explained. to the effect that he had watched the video recording of his interview and had no comment to make. he had then stopped working for the applicant. as he had refused to work for free, the applicant had responded that then he would rot in a cell, and had given him a fifteen-day sentence. while he had been serving his sentence, sh. i. had worked voluntarily and for remuneration. b., the head of the detention facility, testified that in late october or early november 2007 the applicant had told him that i. had stolen some things from his construction site and had asked b. to bring i. to him. on 21 november 2007 the applicant had called personally and asked that i. be handed over for such work. on 8 july 2009 the police reported that i. could not be found at his last known address in radomyshl and that his whereabouts were unknown. they stated that they did not know i., had not observed him committing the offence, and had not made any statements about it to the police. the applicant questioned the trial court’s decision to trust the statements given by i., a drunk who had a prior conviction for murder and who had failed to remember the content of the notarised statement he had signed just weeks before, which showed that he was susceptible to signing anything presented to him by the investigator. a prosecutor was present and made oral submissions in opposition to the appeal.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is currently detained in lannemezan prison. on 25 july, 17 and 26 august, 3, 4 and 7 september and 6 and 17 october 1995 eight terrorist attacks were carried out in france. led to a number of persons being arrested and to the search being focused on the united kingdom and an individual named elyes (also known as elyesse or eliass). the applicant lodged habeas corpus applications which were dismissed in june 1997 and in 2001. in a judgment of 29 march 2006 accompanied by over thirty pages of reasoning, the criminal court first of all set out the facts with regard to the “political/religious background”, the emergence of the fis and then the gia, the “background to the attacks” in 1995 – which it listed and described as attributable in all likelihood to the gia – and the “context surrounding rachid ramda”. with regard to the gia’s funding the court, having noted the prosecution’s claims that the applicant had funded the gia groups which carried out the attacks in france during the second half of 1995, examined the factual evidence in the case file at length and in detail. this was established by the statements of the british police officers tasked with keeping the applicant under surveillance and of the staff of the western union branch where the transfer had been made, and also by the discovery of the applicant’s fingerprints on the transfer slip kept by the western union branch. in a final judgment of 18 december 2006 the paris court of appeal upheld that judgment. in these judgments the judges noted in particular the following facts in relation to the applicant. in a document logging the details of the 17 october attack; the applicant had possessed the details of the western union branch in rue du cloître in the notre-dame district of paris; an exchange receipt dated 21 july 1995, for an amount of gbp 5,000 exchanged at a rate of 7.5%, had been found at the applicant’s home, with the number of a public payphone in corbeil-essonnes used by a.t. lastly, in its judgment of 27 november 2001 the investigation division also noted that it was clear from these different elements that the applicant had sent funds to the perpetrators of the attacks, not just in relation to the campaign of attacks as a whole but also for use directly in carrying out the attack of 6 october 1995. it sentenced him to life imprisonment with a minimum term of twenty-two years. the applicant appealed on 29 october 2007. besides details regarding the places and dates concerned in each instance, as well as the indication of the victims according to the damage suffered (death, mutilation or permanent disability, temporary total unfitness for work of over eight days and of a maximum of eight days, destruction of or damage to property), the questions related in particular to whether or not the applicant’s actions had been premeditated (questions nos. the parties did not comment on these questions.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in vila nova de gaia. on 26 november 1997 mr fernandes was admitted to the ear, nose and throat (ent) department of vila nova de gaia hospital (“the chvng”) for a nasal polypectomy. he underwent the operation on 27 november 1997 and was discharged from hospital on 28 november 1997 at 10 a.m. 12. he was prescribed a special diet and medication. a medical appointment was fixed for 9 february 1998. on 5 march 1998 mr fernandes was examined by a doctor who judged the situation to be under control. on 30 october and 23 december 1998 the regional health authority for the north region sent the applicant copies of the reports drawn up by the chvng and santo antónio hospital on the basis of her husband’s medical records. according to the reports, in view of the deterioration in his state of health after the nasal polypectomy, it would not have been possible to save the applicant’s husband’s life. the inspector general for health wrote to the applicant on 2 march 2006 informing her that he had set aside his previous order and ordered fresh expert assessments to be carried out by different experts in the fields of internal medicine and gastroenterology. the applicant gave evidence again on 27 april 2006. in his view, the meningitis had developed unexpectedly. in the meantime, on 31 august 1998, the medical association acknowledged receipt of the applicant’s letter of 13 august 1998, informing her that steps would be taken in response to it. taking into account the medical records of the applicant’s husband and the various statements made by the witnesses who had given evidence, the court considered it established, inter alia,(i)  that a polypectomy was a straightforward surgical operation which posed minimal risk and that the patient had been informed accordingly;(ii)  that the operating theatre had been aseptic and sterilised at the time of the polypectomy;(iii)  that the origin of the bacterium linked to the patient’s meningitis had not been proven. ...on 25 january 1998 the patient again attended vila nova de gaia hospital, where he was diagnosed with pseudomembranous colitis caused by clostridium difficile ... the colitis was successfully treated in that hospital ...;throughout his stay in vila nova de gaia hospital he was given treatment to protect his stomach. on 26 february 2013 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s claims, upholding the judgment of the oporto administrative and fiscal court.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. on 25 october 2002 the military court of the vladikavkaz garrison (“the military court”) ordered, inter alia, the head of the respondent military institute to re-calculate the period of the applicant’s service, applying the favourable terms of such calculation for a specified period of service. the applicant was also awarded some additional allowances and payments for certain periods. the judgment came into force on 5 november 2002. on 3 march 2003 the military court issued a writ of execution. on 4 august 2003 the bailiffs’ service instituted the enforcement proceedings. on 13 november 2003 the head of the respondent military institute issued order no. 463 requiring to make payments in accordance with the judgment of 25 october 2002. however, no calculations or payments were made at that time. on 4 february 2005 the applicant submitted the writ of execution to the federal treasury. on 18 may 2005 the writ was returned to the applicant on the ground that the judgment obliged an official of an organisation to take certain actions rather than ordered to recover payments from a budgetary organisation. thus, the writ of execution was to be submitted to the bailiffs’ service. on 14 april 2006 the writ of execution was returned to the applicant from the bailiffs’ service without enforcement. the bailiffs explained that for the applicant to be able to receive the payments under the judgment, he should obtain a writ of execution stating the sum of the debt to be recovered. after that, the writ could be submitted to the federal treasury for enforcement.
the applicants were born in 1963, 1976 and 1961 respectively and at the time the applications were lodged were detained in the corradino correctional facility, paola. the criminal court also ordered the applicant to pay a fine of 30,000 euros (eur) as well as eur 1,898.21 in fees payable to the court experts, which were to be converted into a further eighteen months’ imprisonment if not paid. the water supply was inadequate and he had to use a bucket to flush the toilet. according to the government, the first applicant had a secondary light that he used and he had stated that it provided plenty of light for him. relying on an indistinct photo submitted to the court, the government submitted that the applicant had covered the ventilation grilles on the wall with masking tape, thereby restricting the ventilation. the government submitted that the prison psychologist was not in a position to prescribe medicine or to refer inmates to the psychiatric hospital. the cell walls contained asbestos and the old paint was peeling off the walls and the ceiling. no heating was provided in the cells and the blankets were not adequate. the government submitted that the walls did not contain asbestos but were built from maltese limestone. the government claimed that the applicant had stated that he would never paint his cell himself because he felt that this was the responsibility of the prison officials. by a judgment of 28 june 2016 the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence dismissed the second applicant’s complaint. no appeal appears to have been lodged against this judgment. according to the third applicant, the temperature in his cell may be as low as 10 oc during winter, and yet he is not allowed to have a heater in his cell. furthermore, his cell became very hot and there was inadequate ventilation. they noted that the third applicant had been referred to the state hospital in december 2011 for a common migraine and medication was prescribed as stated above.
the applicant was born in 1977 and at the time that he lodged the application with the court was serving a sentence of eight years’ imprisonment in the corradino correctional facility, malta. according to the government, disciplinary measures were taken against another inmate involved in the incident but not against the applicant, who had been transferred (from division 2) to division 6, a more secure division, immediately after the incident. thereafter he had been kept in solitary confinement without assistance from the prison medical staff. later, he had refused to consult the prison psychiatrist because he no longer trusted the prison staff and did not want to be sent to a psychiatric hospital since the facilities there were allegedly worse than those in the prison. according to the government the applicant was admitted to the medical infirmary of the prison at 4.15 p.m. on 12 july 2013 and a referral to the emergency department of the state hospital was made at 5 p.m. the referral note issued by the doctor indicated that the applicant had swelling in the face, a bruise on one loin, and severe swelling with limited movement in his right ankle. at an unspecified time on the same day he was provided with a pair of crutches by the prison medical infirmary. on the same day he was also admitted to hospital and returned to cell 8 in division 6 on 14 july 2013. records also showed that a nurse had visited division 6 to attend to the applicant on 15 july – the note in the register reads as follows: “nurse c. and s. came to division 6 at about 11.35 am to visit fernando soto in his cell”. the government submitted that the applicant had been held in division 6 for his own safety. the government submitted that, by order of a manager, on 21 july 2013 the applicant had been allowed to mingle with all other inmates without restriction. moreover, in april 2015 the applicant had been referred for psychiatric services by the psychologist. the applicant was also referred to the ophthalmology department on 5 august 2013. it was also small and had three different bands of metal shutters, which hampered the entry of natural light. he claimed that his cell had lacked good ventilation – although there were two vents, one of them had been blocked. in a letter dated 5 august 2015, the applicant alleged that the prison authorities had refused to forward his letters to the court in order to dissuade him from pursuing his case before it.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in switzerland. he had also contradicted himself regarding his transportation from the prison to court and his escape. the documents submitted by the applicant could not lead to a different result as they could easily be bought in iran and falsified. moreover, the alleged conduct of the iranian authorities in sending a court summons to the applicant’s home after his escape, rather than going there to arrest him on the spot, was not credible, nor was his submission that the judgment of 21 july 2009 had been sent to his home and given to a neighbour prior to his departure. he submitted a copy of his baptism certificate, issued by a pentecostal church, a protestant house church, to support his account. on 17 january 2014 the asylum authorities, who treated the applicant’s request as a second asylum application, questioned the applicant in person. a member of a non-governmental organisation was present as a neutral witness in order to guarantee the fairness of the hearing. during the hearing, the applicant stated that he had first had contact with a catholic church in switzerland in 2011 and then with the pentecostal church from early 2013. he had regularly attended church services and after about six or seven months had been baptised in that church. the applicant did not make any submissions regarding the risk allegedly caused by the broken relationship with his father and the latter’s ties to the secret service. based on his statement, they considered that he did not intend to practise his faith in such a manner. there were no indications that the iranian authorities were even aware of his conversion. a christian convert faced a much greater risk of ill-treatment than those born into the christian religion. in addition, conversion to christianity might be seen as treason. on 14 june 2016 the asylum authorities rejected his application, which they had treated as a further asylum application.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in novyy, tatarstan republic, russia. on 13 september 2002 the applicant’s husband was taken to tukayevskiy police station. according to the applicant, during this inquiry investigative measures were carried out by unspecified officers from tukayevskiy police station. having summarised the above testimonies and referring to the conclusions of the internal inquiry, the assistant to the prosecutor concluded that no criminal offence had been committed. this decision was annulled by the higher prosecutor and the inquiry was reassigned to another investigator. a similar statement was made by paramedics zh. on 3 may 2003 investigator r. issued a decision discontinuing the criminal investigation for absence of any criminal event, while noting that “unidentified officers from the police station had manifestly exceeded their powers when placing [the victim] in an investigation room”. on 23 august 2003 investigator r. issued a decision discontinuing the criminal investigation in terms that were similar to the decision of 3 may 2003. this decision was subsequently quashed and other similar decisions were issued and quashed on several occasions. on an unspecified date, the investigating officer asked expert va., a new refusal was issued on 25 september 2010. 514 ...it is apparent from the report of the medical expert that khayrullin’s death was caused by a post-strangulation condition which had been caused by the squeezing of the neck by some kind of noose; this condition had been aggravated by an impact adversely affecting brain function. the medical documents show no indication of any bodily injuries when he was admitted to the hospital. none of them indicated any other bodily injuries. neither of the above decisions contains any explanation about the change in the circumstances in which the victim had been discovered ... at the same time, the refusal to prosecute dated 10 december 2003 clearly indicates as an established fact that mr khayrullin had attempted suicide at the balcony of the fifth floor ...it is apparent from the available material that a criminal investigation was opened under article 286 of the criminal code in respect of unidentified officials; this legal classification has not been changed since 2002; the investigation is ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in zemun. the applicant’s arrest took place at around 4 p.m. on 1 april 2003, when five members of the special anti-terrorist unit broke into the apartment in which he was hiding with five friends. according to the applicant, the maltreatment continued there. he was beaten with baseball bats and police truncheons. in the cell his handcuffs were taken off and a detention order was put before him for signature. they handcuffed him, put a bag over his head and took him for questioning. throughout this time, he was not allowed to drink any water. afterwards, he was given one sandwich per day. these included large haematomas on the soles of his feet, palms of his hands, face, shoulders and buttocks, as well as conjunctival hyperaemia (redness) on the external parts of his eyes. after two months he had fully recovered from the ill-treatment he had suffered. on 18 may 2004 the applicant’s mother lodged a complaint with the inspector general’s service of the ministry of the interior (generalni inspektorat ministarstva unutrašnjih poslova), alleging that her son had been tortured by members of the special anti-terrorist unit and police officers working for the narcotics department of the criminal police directorate (odeljenje za suzbijanje narkomanije uprave kriminalističke policije, also known as the fourth department) in belgrade. gave the names of several of the police officers involved and stated that he had not seen any injuries on the applicant. it would appear that the case is still open. on 21 april and 18 november 2008 the investigating judge to whom the case was assigned interviewed three doctors who worked at the prison hospital. on 23 september 2009 the pre-trial chamber of the first belgrade municipal court upheld the decision of the investigating judge.
the applicant, mr grigoriy nikolayevich pleshchinskiy, is a russian national who was born in 1954 and lives in solnechnogorsk, moscow region. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was kept in solnechnogorsk police’s temporary detention centre in overcrowded cells from 2 to 10 october 2003; 20 to 24 october 2003; 17 to 21 november 2003; 21 to 28 november 2003; 22 to 29 december 2003; 26 to 30 january 2004; 2 and 3 february 2004; 31 march to 2 april 2004 and then on several occasions between april and 22 july 2004. he had to relieve himself in a bucket in the presence of other detainees and it was very difficult to breathe in the cells. there was no tap or other access to water, no proper light, no table on which to eat food and no area for outdoor activities. in the winter the walls and ceiling were covered with ice or damp. on 11 july 2005 the applicant sued the state for compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage caused by the allegedly appalling conditions of his detention in the temporary detention centre. on 14 november 2005 the solnechnogorsk town court rejected the applicant’s claims. on 22 november and 6 december 2005 the applicant lodged appeals against the decision of 14 november 2005. on an unspecified date the court sent a summons to an appeal hearing which had been scheduled for 30 january 2006. the applicant obtained a title certificate, which, however, named him as the sole owner. all the documents showed that the plaintiff had been permanently residing in solnechnogorsk. the applicant sought to prove that at the material time the plaintiff had lived in a flat in another town, taganrog, and tried to obtain certificates of his moving in and out of the privatised flat. however, the competent authority would not issue them unless they were requested by a judge. accordingly, where flats were privatised without payment, they could become owners of the flat together with the adults.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in čurug. on 2 august 2002 the applicant and one of his colleagues (hereinafter “the plaintiffs”) instituted civil proceedings against their employer seeking payment of salary arrears and other employment-related benefits. on 8 february 2013, after two remittals the first instance court in novi sad, specifically its detached section in bečej, ruled partly in favour of the plaintiffs, ordering their employer to pay each of them specified sums in respect of salary arrears. the remainder of their claims was rejected. on 15 april 2013 the court of appeal in novi sad reversed a part of the above judgment, while upholding the remainder. this judgment was served on the plaintiffs on 6 june 2013. on 29 january 2014 the supreme court dismissed the plaintiffs’ appeal on points of law as the value of their respective claims was below the statutory threshold allowing for this remedy. on 9 april 2013 the plaintiffs lodged the constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time in the impugned proceedings. by its decision of 9 december 2015, the constitutional court found a violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded each of them eur 800 in respect of the non‑pecuniary damage suffered.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently serving a prison sentence in edirne. filed a complaint with the bursa public prosecutor’s office, claiming that they had been threatened by members of a criminal organisation, including the applicant, who had acted under his boss, o.k., and that they had had to give them a substantial amount of money and property as a result. he was placed in police custody on the same day. at their homes several times in order to obtain money by threatening them. on 28 march 2001 the applicant went through a final medical examination before he was detained on remand. this time, a report specific to him was drawn up, stating that he had not put forward any physical or psychological complaints during the examination and that there was no indication of ill-treatment on his body. on the same day the applicant gave his statements before the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court. on 21 june 2001 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, accusing the applicant of armed robbery, membership of a criminal organisation and illegally carrying weapons. who he claimed to have been involved in the money transactions at issue and to have been threatened by that second criminal organisation. on 13 september 2001, at the first hearing before the istanbul state security court, i̇.y. at the second hearing, held on 6 december 2001, the applicant stated before the court that the indictment had not been served on him and that he had not fully understood the charges against him. he further retracted the previous statements he had made before the police and the public prosecutor. he further indicated that the unfolding of the events had been corroborated by the statements of all of the accused, but that they had all denied having threatened i̇.y. at the hearing on 3 september 2002 the istanbul state security court rejected the request, finding that the examination of the witnesses called by the applicant would have no effect on the outcome of the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1960 and was serving a prison sentence at the time in question. his conviction was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of the autonomous republic of adjara on 19 july 2004. 1, despite the seriousness of his state of health, and that the treatment in that hospital had not produced any results. he also prescribed alprostapint infusions. on the basis of the 5 may 2008 medical report (see paragraph 11 above), and in view of the fact that his treatment at the prison hospital was producing no results, on 14 may 2008 the applicant applied to the tbilisi city court for his sentence to be suspended on health grounds (under article 607 § 1 (a) of the code of criminal procedure – “the ccp”). one of the experts who had produced the above-mentioned report confirmed to the court judge that the applicant was seriously ill. on 11 june 2008 the tbilisi city court dismissed the applicant’s request, on the grounds that the prison hospital had a medical service capable of providing the necessary treatment and that the applicant, who was being looked after by specialist doctors, would be transferred to a specialist clinic if necessary. in their view, a representative of the prisons department was not in a position to assess the danger that detention might pose to the life of the applicant. the applicant’s doctor – a surgeon who was a member of the prison hospital’s permanent staff – also gave evidence before the court of appeal, explaining the diagnosis and confirming that his patient was seriously ill, with the arterial disease having reached the fourth and final stage. the applicant was being given palliative treatment with medicines (antioxidants, protective drugs, sedatives). if the situation continued, the applicant might have to have his entire right leg amputated. in his view, the applicant’s lower left limb was also damaged, but not yet affected by gangrene. from a cardiological point of view, his heart condition remained serious. the gangrene was still described as progressive. over may and june 2011 the applicant underwent another forensic examination.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in dnipro, ukraine. its banking licence was revoked on 11 january 2001 (see paragraph 12 below). in march 2000 the first applicant was arrested as part of the criminal proceedings (for more details see feldman v. ukraine, nos. in april 2000 the ukrainian news agency unian reported on a session of the coordination committee on combating corruption and organised crime. the relevant extract reads:“‘it is a matter of honour for the general prosecutor’s office and the state tax administration to bring the story of slovyanskyy bank to its logical conclusion,’ said the president of ukraine during his speech at the session ... he stated that the chairs of the bank had turned it into a source of uncontrolled personal income. ‘ in july 2000 an investigator from the tax police of the state tax administration, acting in the course of the criminal proceedings, ordered an attachment of the applicant bank’s securities. by the same resolution the nbu approved the composition of a liquidation commission for the bank, consisting of eleven officials from the regional departments of the nbu and two members of staff from the local tax office. the first applicant emphasised that after the resolution had been adopted, the applicant bank had not been able to protect its rights and interests on its own. on 26 june 2001 the court found that the first applicant could bring a claim, however, it had to be dismissed. the court held that the nbu had been competent to adopt the impugned resolution, that the measures taken had been lawful and that they had been made necessary by gross violations of banking legislation by the applicant bank and its difficult financial position. the first applicant appealed against that decision. for those reasons the court of appeal dismissed the claim. the first applicant appealed on points of law. the liquidation process of the applicant bank was completed on 30 november 2012. the bank was removed from the legal entities official database on 4 august 2014.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in melitopol. between 2004 and 2006 the applicant was head of melitopol city council’s disadvantaged persons’ welfare centre (центр по обслуговуванню одиноких, непрацездатних та малозабезпечених громадян управління праці, соціального захисту та житлових субсидій мелітопольської міської ради – “the centre”). on 21 april 2006 she was dismissed as part of a reorganisation of the centre. another person was subsequently appointed to a position similar to the one previously occupied by the applicant. in may 2006 the applicant instituted civil proceedings in the melitopolskyy local court (“the melitopolskyy court”) seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 24 october 2006 the court rejected the applicant’s claim. it found that the centre had offered the applicant another position but that she had rejected this proposal, and that a more experienced person had been appointed as the head of the centre. following an appeal by the applicant, on 7 december 2006 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of 24 october 2006. the applicant lodged a further appeal, and on 22 august 2007 the supreme court of ukraine quashed these decisions and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. it held that the case was to be considered under the administrative justice procedure since it concerned a public-service dispute. accordingly, the applicant instituted administrative proceedings before the melitopolskyy court, which, on 21 february 2008, again found against her for reasons similar to those listed in its decision of 24 october 2006. on 2 march 2011 the higher administrative court of ukraine upheld this decision. on 28 march 2011 the applicant again lodged a civil claim seeking reinstatement, salary arrears and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 4 august 2011 the melitopolskyy court refused to examine the merits of the applicant’s civil claim as the applicant had sought to have adjourned previous court hearings in respect of her case on numerous occasions without good reason. on 5 october 2011 the zaporizhzhya regional court of appeal upheld the decision of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in voluntari. in march 2014 a large-scale criminal investigation was initiated against several persons for money laundering and fiscal fraud. on 3 december 2014 the investigation was extended in respect of thirty-two other persons, including the applicant. according to the search report, signed by the applicant and by her appointed lawyer without any objections, the search started at 6.15 a.m. and lasted until 2 p.m. 8. according to the record drawn up at the time, the enforcement of the order to appear was executed between 2.10 p.m. and 2.40 p.m., when the applicant arrived at the police station. the documents on file show that between 8.40 a.m. on 4 december 2014 and 3 a.m. the next day, the investigating authorities, namely five prosecutors and six judicial police officers, conducted interviews in respect of fourteen witnesses and twenty-five suspects and/or defendants in connection with the criminal investigation involving the applicant. when invited to give a statement, she refused, claiming that she was unwell and needed medical assistance. her lawyer does not appear to have been present. in the second complaint it is claimed that on 4 december 2014, as of 12.00 p.m. when the search of her home ended, the applicant’s liberty to move around was restricted, as proved by the fact that she had been accompanied by police officers not only to the police station but also to the hospital, where she had been taken under escort to obtain medical assistance. on 5 december 2014, relying on testimonial, documentary and audio surveillance evidence, the prosecutor asked the bucharest county court to place the applicant in pre-trial detention (arest preventiv) for thirty days as her release posed a threat to public order. an appeal lodged against this was dismissed by the bucharest court of appeal on 15 december 2014. the applicant was released on 11 february 2015 after two months of pre-trial detention. they submitted that the applicant had been detained in a cell measuring 9.32 sq m, which she had occupied with two or three other detainees from 5 to 8 december 2014. they stated that each cell had sanitary facilities such as a toilet and a shower, which were separated from the rest of the cell by a curtain. both cells had access to natural and artificial light, as well as ventilation provided by a double-glazed window measuring 115cm x 77cm.
the applicants were born in 1968 and 1972 respectively and live in vilnius. sold a plot of forest land measuring 0.4807 hectares to the applicants. in february 2005 a registration certificate was issued for the plot of land. in november 2005 the first applicant asked the authorities to issue him with the relevant documents necessary for construction. the utena environmental protection department stated that the construction of a building had to comply with the law on construction; the existing flora had to be preserved and the method of waste collection had to be decided on. the permanent committee on construction of the molėtai municipality verified the documents submitted by the first applicant and recommended that he be issued with a building permit. on 5 august 2011 the prosecutor’s office started court proceedings and asked the domestic courts to revoke the recommendation to grant the first applicant building permission; to annul the building permit and oblige the applicants to demolish the building at the expense of the established guilty parties, that is the applicants, the molėtai municipality, and the utena environmental protection department. it had not been until 2006 that the supreme court had held that the sole fact that the storehouses had been sited on a specific plot of land, without any proof that a residential building had been sited there, did not mean that there had previously been a residential property there (see paragraph 56 below). moreover, the court was not convinced that the environment would be restored to its previous state if the buildings were demolished because the demolition would also cause some environmental damage. the court held that the molėtai district court had established as a legal fact that there used to be a cattle shed and a storehouse on the applicants’ plot of land (see paragraph 8 above). a summer house could not be constructed as it did not fall within the category of buildings that could be constructed in the forest. even if the applicants had misinterpreted the provisions of the regulation, the constitutional court had found the regulation to be inconsistent with the law, and, by extension, with the constitution on 14 march 2006, only three months after the building permit had been issued to the first applicant. the applicants should therefore have been able to understand the consequences of constructing illegally and to avoid them. on 12 february 2014 the molėtai district court dismissed the bailiff’s request because she had failed to provide specific details as to what required clarification. on 23 december 2015 the utena district court held that domestic law did not oblige the bailiff to suspend the execution of judgments if the applicants had lodged an application with the european court of human rights.
the applicants are sisters, who were born in 1949 and 1950 respectively and live in vilnius and varėna. in april 2008 the prosecutor lodged a claim with the varėna district court and asked it to annul part of the decision of 23 may 1996 (see paragraph 6 above) restoring the property rights of the applicants’ father in respect of 0.4863 hectares of land, and the relevant part of the succession document issued to the applicants. and that the applicants had signed the documents and agreed with the borders of the plot under the buildings. on 2 february 2011 the vilnius regional court sent the case back to the court of first instance for fresh examination, stating that the substance of the case had not been examined thoroughly. moreover, although the applicants and j.p. ’s buildings were on the plot of land measuring 0.51 hectares. and the plan of the land had been signed by the applicants (see paragraph 14 above). the court considered that the person who had measured the land for the applicants had not marked the house in that area, and had not taken any actions to find out who the owner of the house was; therefore, he was the person who had made a mistake. in march 2014 the national land service informed the applicant that she could start court proceedings for damages. ’s buildings was valid, and that, in accordance with the decisions of the domestic courts, j.p. the national land service stated that the applicants were aware of the court proceedings regarding the decision of 23 may 1996 to restore their father’s property rights. was entitled to buy the plot of land for residential purposes located under the buildings from the state. was using land to which he had no rights. that decision was upheld by a higher prosecutor in december 2010 and by the varėna district court and the vilnius regional court in january 2011. on 6 may 2014 the kaunas regional administrative court held that the applicant’s allegations had already been rejected by the decision of the varėna district court of 20 february 2012 (see paragraph 17 above).
the first applicant was born in 1976 and lives in žagarė and the second applicant was born in 1957 and lives in šiauliai. in december 2010 the first applicant bought a house at an auction organised by the state and registered his property rights in the state property register. lodged a complaint against the bailiff but on 6 june 2012 the šiauliai district court dismissed it. on 22 november 2012 the šiauliai district court decided to apply interim measures and to suspend the eviction proceedings until the complaint against the bailiff was examined. the complaint against the bailiff was examined on 19 december 2012 by the šiauliai district court, which decided to dismiss z.b. submitted a separate complaint against the decision of the šiauliai district court (see paragraph 15 above), complaining that the court had made a purely formalistic assessment of his minor granddaughter’s living arrangements in the house and that it had not commented on the fact that the bailiff had ignored his wife’s illness. on 25 january 2013 the šiauliai regional court dismissed the bailiff’s complaint holding that g.b. on 3 april 2013 the bailiff informed z.b. that the eviction would take place on 16 april 2013. stated that his mother was living in the house and, because she was not on the list of persons who could be evicted, the eviction could not take place. the next day, the bailiff drew up a document by which the second applicant was assigned as the property manager of the goods that had been left in the house and that had been seized. as this order had not been executed, on 26 march 2014 the bailiff issued a property-seizure order with the aim of selling the goods off. on 30 and 31 october 2014 the bailiff announced a public auction concerning the movable property of z.b. against the bailiff, the second applicant and third parties regarding the annulment of the negative consequences caused by the unlawful actions of the bailiff and compensation for non-pecuniary damage. had asked it to rule that some personal belongings could not be sold at auction.
at the time of the events the applicants were all working as cashiers for m.s.a., a spanish family-owned supermarket chain. at the beginning of february 2009 the applicants’ employer noticed some irregularities between the supermarket stock levels and what was actually sold on a daily basis. hereafter and for the sake of clarity, the applicants will be referred to as the first, second, third, fourth and fifth applicants (see the attached annex). security cameras had also caught them allowing customers and co-workers to leave the store with merchandise that had not been paid for. on 20 january 2010 the employment tribunal issued two judgments ruling against the applicants, declaring both dismissals fair. the main evidence supporting the fairness of their dismissals was the recordings resulting from the covert surveillance, as well as the witness statements of co-workers dismissed for their involvement in the thefts, the shop manager, the union representative and the company’s legal representative. this had been confirmed by the constitutional court in several judgments (see, among other authorities, judgment no. the applicants appealed before the high court of justice of catalonia on 16 and 22 march 2010 respectively. on 28 january and 24 february 2011 the court upheld both first-instance judgments, referring to the constitutional court’s case-law and endorsing the employment tribunal’s finding that the defendant party had been authorised to carry out the covert video surveillance of the cash desks. the applicants brought cassation appeals, which were declared inadmissible on 5 october 2011 and 7 february 2012 respectively. on 25 and 29 june 2006 the applicants were dismissed on disciplinary grounds: they had been caught on video helping co-workers and customers steal items and stealing them themselves. as regards the fourth and fifth applicants, security cameras had caught them stealing goods with the help of their co-workers, such as the second applicant. accordingly, the settlement agreements were declared valid under article 1.809 of the civil code and, consequently, the employment tribunal ruled against the third, fourth and fifth applicants. the applicants appealed before the high court of justice of catalonia on 16 march 2010.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently detained in bostadel prison, in menzingen. on 19 july 2005 the applicant was transferred to bostadel prison. the intercantonal commission submitted its report on 29 october 2007. found that these disorders had already been present at the time when the offences had been committed. in a report dated 10 november 2008 the intercantonal commission found that the applicant represented a danger to the public, and recommended that no adjustments to the conditions of his sentence be ordered and that the appropriate court be asked to review whether the conditions for an (outpatient) therapeutic measure in conjunction with the sentence (vollzugsbegleitende therapeutische massnahme) were satisfied (article 63 of the criminal code). on 30 december 2008 the department of justice of the canton of basle urban asked the court of appeal to ascertain whether, following its judgment of 12 january 2007, the conditions for ordering a therapeutic measure were satisfied. to clarify this possibility, it proposed that an additional expert report be drawn up. however, she did not rule out all possibility of treatment, referring to some more promising therapeutic approaches. on 7 july 2010, referring to the above-mentioned additional psychiatric report, the post-sentencing authority of the canton of basle urban (“the post-sentencing authority”) asked the court of appeal to review whether, following its judgment of 12 january 2007, the conditions for ordering subsequent indefinite detention, or possibly an institutional therapeutic measure, were satisfied (articles 64 and 59 of the criminal code respectively, taken together with article 65; see paragraph 24 below). in a judgment of 6 may 2011, after hearing evidence from professor a.e. it noted that indefinite detention was an exceptional measure and could only be ordered with caution. in her reply dated 25 june 2012 she had affirmed, with reference to article 59 § 3 of the criminal code, that in view of the type, severity and complexity of the applicant’s mental disorder, only an institutional measure was likely to meet his therapeutic needs to an adequate extent. such a link had been present in his case. in a letter dated 26 may 2016 the applicant informed the court that he was still in bostadel prison, and had been there since 19 july 2005 (see paragraph 6 above). he maintained that he was not receiving any treatment or therapy.
the applicant was born in 1930 and lives in vilnius. on 10 april 2003 the vilnius county administration informed the vilnius municipality that the property rights of the applicant’s husband would be restored to 0.1638 hectares of land for residential purposes. on 11 june 2003 the vilnius municipality informed the vilnius county administration that a plot of land of 0.1007 hectares had been formed near the buildings owned by the applicant’s husband. in november 2003 the vilnius city first district court established as a legal fact that the grandmother of the applicant’s husband had owned a plot of land in vilnius measuring 362 square “fathoms” (sieksnis – 1 fathom equals 1.82 m). on 16 may 2007 the applicant’s husband died and the applicant became his heir. the court stated that in comparison with these numbers, the value of the plot of land provided by the vilnius county administration (see paragraph 14 above) was 327.5 times lower, and it could not conform to the principle of equal value. it appears that the applicant did not reply to this letter. after the matter had been resolved by the constitutional court (see paragraph 35 below), the vilnius regional administrative court rejected the applicant’s claim on 4 november 2013. if no other means were chosen, the property rights had to be restored by paying monetary compensation. the court further observed that the authorities had suggested the applicant choose other means to have her property rights restored (see paragraph 17 above), and that in september 2013 it had been decided to include the applicant on the list of persons to receive a plot of land for construction of an individual house. the supreme administrative court also held that the applicant had complained about the length of the court proceedings. the court held that the applicant had lodged the complaint on 4 november 2009; it had been accepted by the vilnius regional administrative court on 17 november 2009. the proceedings in the administrative case had recommenced on 16 september 2013 and the decision had been adopted on 4 november 2013. given the complexity of the case and referral of the matter to the constitutional court, the length of proceedings had not breached the reasonable time requirement. the applicant was asked to express her wish before 1 march 2015.
in 2005 he was granted a temporary residence permit in sweden which was made permanent in 2007. he further contested the security service’s request alleging that, since the security service had branded him a terrorist, he would risk torture and at least ten years’ imprisonment in morocco. he submitted that he would be forced to confess to an act of terrorism that he had not committed. the applicant stated that his parents lived in morocco and he had visited them a few years earlier. he was not aware if his situation had been noted in morocco. such persons had been tortured into confession and sentenced to lengthy terms of imprisonment. it noted that the human rights situation in morocco had improved significantly. moreover, the agency considered that he had not made out that the moroccan authorities had previously showed an interest in him. his parents in morocco had not reported any visits from the authorities enquiring about him and the moroccan authorities had never contacted him in sweden. the agency observed that the applicant had submitted that he was not sought in morocco, that he had not been involved in any legal proceedings there and that the moroccan authorities had never subjected him to any acts of persecution in the past. the migration agency concluded that, even taking into account the applicant’s submissions, it shared the security service’s assessment and considered that there were grounds to expel the applicant with reference to section 1, paragraph 2, of the special controls of aliens act (lagen [1991:572] om särskild utlänningskontroll). it thus rejected his request for asylum and international protection, revoked his permanent residence permit and ordered his expulsion to either morocco or another specified country. it also decided on a lifelong ban on returning to sweden. the security service stated that it was as transparent as possible but, for reasons of confidentiality, could not reveal its working methods and sources. on 22 june 2016, after having held an oral hearing, the appellate court shared the reasoning of the migration agency and decided to recommend that the government uphold the agency’s decision.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in larnaca. following his dismissal from cyprus airways ltd as a trainee pilot, the applicant on 26 june 1998 brought a civil action before the district court of nicosia for wrongful dismissal and defamation (civil action no. the defendant company was represented by a law firm. on 29 december 2006 the court dismissed the action. on 9 february 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal with the supreme court (appeal no. the appeal was tried by a bench of three judges. the hearing of the appeal was held on 11 march 2007. on that date the managing partner of the above-mentioned law firm, mr p.g.p., appeared for the defendant company and addressed the supreme court. up until that date, other lawyers from the firm had appeared before the appeal bench on behalf of the defendant company. on 21 april 2010 the supreme court dismissed the appeal unanimously. the applicant submitted that after the judgment of the supreme court was given, he discovered that the son of one of the judges sitting on the bench, judge a.k., were married and that both worked at the latter’s law firm. the lawyer representing him in the domestic proceedings had not requested the exemption of the judge in question because he had not had sufficient knowledge of the relevant facts at the time. the applicant had also not instructed his lawyer to do so as he had found out about this fact only after the appeal proceedings had ended.
the applicant was born in 1974 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 25 january 2008 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching a prison order by the bolu f-type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 1 february 2008 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above-mentioned letter. on 26 february 2008 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 11 march 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 26 february 2008.
on 27 december 2010 the applicant was arrested on drug-related charges and placed in custody. on 14 december 2012 the case was submitted for trial to the voronezh regional court. on 11 july 2013 the court returned the case to the deputy prosecutor general for remedying certain procedural defects. on 20 september 2013 the investigations department of the federal drug control service received the case file and forwarded it to its regional branch in st petersburg. on 1 november 2013 an investigator asked the st petersburg city court to extend the applicant’s detention for a further four months, until 31 march 2014. on 8 november 2013 the city court granted the application. he pointed out that the maximum statutory time period for keeping him in pre-trial detention had expired a long time ago and that any further extensions had been unlawful. on 27 november 2013 the st petersburg city court rejected his appeal in a summary fashion, without examining his arguments in detail.
the applicant is a non-governmental organisation which promotes tolerance and condemns all types of racially motivated discrimination. it was established under swiss law and registered in zürich. the president of the local branch of the young swiss people’s party, emphasised that it was time to stop the expansion of islam. on 15 march 2011 the kreuzlingen district court dismissed b.k. on appeal, on 17 november 2011 the thurgau cantonal high court (obergericht des kantons thurgau) reversed the first-instance judgment. the appellant referred to the respondent’s speech at the public demonstration of 5 november 2009 on its website ... freely accessible on the internet, commenting on the term ‘verbal racism’. the case-law on press statements, on which the appellant relies, distinguishes between statements of facts on the one hand and value judgments on the other, and can be summarised as follows: ... 4.2. it contains a substantive core and, at the same time, a value judgment. duden, the great dictionary of the german language in six volumes, vol. verbal racism is, therefore, no longer merely a certain attitude, but an attitude in the instant case which was expressed publicly through language (as opposed to, for example, through deeds). ‘ verbal racism’ could therefore mean racial discrimination in the criminal sense, as the respondent claims. the statements that led the appellant to conclude that there had been ‘verbal racism’ are the core phrases ‘it is time to stop the spread of islam ... the swiss guiding culture (“schweizerische leitkultur”), based on christianity, cannot let itself be repressed by other cultures ... a symbolic sign, such as the prohibition of minarets, is therefore an expression of the preservation of one’s own identity’. for the average listener, that does not result in the blanket denigration of the followers of islam or show fundamental contempt for muslims. therefore, the substantive core does not apply and the assessment is not acceptable. therefore, the mixed value judgment, which infringed personality rights, cannot be justified by any overriding interest within the meaning of article 28 § 2 of the civil code.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in sochi. on 27 november 2010 the applicant, a police captain, was arrested for soliciting a bribe. he was taken into custody and his detention was extended on several occasions. on 4 july 2011 the case was submitted for trial in the tsentralnyy district court of sochi. on 8 july 2011 the district court determined that the case was not ready for trial and returned the file to the prosecutor. by the same decision, it extended the applicant’s detention until 10 august 2011. on 9 august 2011 the director of the iz-23/2 remand prison where the applicant was held reported to the sochi prosecutor and to the president of the tsentralnyy district court that, in the absence of an order extending the applicant’s detention beyond 10 august, he would need to be released on that date. on the same date the sochi prosecutor replied to him that there were no grounds for releasing the applicant because the date for hearing the prosecutor’s appeal against the district court’s order of 8 july had been fixed for 17 august. the applicant was not released on 10 august. he complained about his unlawful detention to the head of the investigations committee and the regional head of the ministry of the interior but did not receive any reply. on 17 august 2011 the krasnodar regional court quashed the district court’s order on appeal. as regards the custodial measure, it held that no extension had been necessary because by virtue of article 255 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure the applicant could be held in custody for an initial six-month period starting from the date on which the case had been submitted for trial.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in toksovo. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 30 november 2009 a deputy president of the city court referred an application by an investigator for an extension order to the oktyabrskiy district court for consideration. the district court granted the application on the following day. on 11 december 2009 the city court upheld that decision on appeal. however, on 31 march 2010 the supreme court of russia determined that the decision to refer the application to another district court had been invalid, because the city court’s deputy president had decided on the change of venue of his own initiative without hearing what the defendant’s opinion on that issue was. on 30 december 2009 a further extension was granted by the president of the vasileostrovskiy district court, judge sh., who again rejected a challenge for bias by the applicant. those orders were upheld on appeal on 25 march and 8 april 2010. allowed the applicant’s challenge for bias in respect of the entire composition of that court, holding as follows:“it has been established that the injured party in the criminal proceedings [k.] works as an assistant to the vasileostrovskiy district court’s judge [n.], and that her father [judge k.] is a judge of the vasileostrovskiy district court. it follows that circumstances exist leading the defendant and his counsel to believe that [judge sh.] and all the judges of the vasileostrovskiy district court are, either directly or indirectly, interested in the outcome of the criminal case. extended the applicant’s detention until 12 may 2010. the presidium extended the applicant’s detention until 12 august 2010. on 31 march 2011 the petrogradskiy district court found the applicant guilty of rape and sentenced him to five years and six months’ imprisonment.
the applicants are owners of residential buildings or apartments which were subject to the rent-control scheme. under the relevant legislation they were obliged to let their flats to tenants while charging no more than the maximum amount of rent fixed by the state. the particulars of the flats affected by the rent control are set out in appendices 10 ‑ 17 (columns a ‑ f). 19294/07; bukovčanová and others v. slovakia, no. 38082/07, 5 july 2016; riedel and others v. slovakia, nos. 44218/07, 54831/07, 33176/08, 47150/08; and mečiar and others v. slovakia, no. 33076/10, 14383/11, balan and others v. slovakia [committee], nos. two residential building at 27 panenská st. 11 situated in the residential building at 27 panenská st. by law, these tenants had under certain circumstances the right to claim that the municipality provide them with a substitute flat on the termination of their lease. they did not avail themselves of that right. on 6 august 2013 the old town evangelical church applied to the bratislava i district court for an eviction order against the occupants of this flat who had failed to vacate it by the expiry of the twelve‑month notice period. the tenants continued to pay the regulated rent. 5 was rebuilt and its area was changed from 110.27 sq. in bratislava where in 2014 the tenant residing in flat no.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in bucharest. on 11 december 2011 one of the applicant’s neighbours called the police to complain about the fact that the applicant had stored personal items in the common space of their apartment building. noting the escalation of events, the applicant’s partner, g.c., at the police station the applicant was struck with fists, feet and truncheons. the pain was so intense that the applicant soiled himself. when they returned they informed him that they were leaving on a mission. the applicant went home and then returned to the police section to recover his identity papers. the doctor drafted a medical report dated 16 december 2011; a copy of the report was given to the applicant on 4 january 2012. two weeks after the incident, the applicant received by mail an offence report (proces verbal de contravenţie) drafted by the police officers on 23 december 2011 in his absence, whereby he was fined 100 romanian lei (ron) for “refusal to present data necessary for his identification”. upon arrival, the police officers asked the applicant to present his identity papers, but he became violent and refused to comply. after his identity had been established, the applicant left the police station. the applicant lodged a complaint with the bucharest county court against the two decisions. on 11 june 2013 the county court dismissed the complaint and consequently upheld the prosecutors’ decisions. the court considered that the applicant had not been kept unlawfully in the police station but had been released as soon as his identity had been established, and that the consequences of the police intervention had not been serious enough to constitute the crime of torture, as alleged by the applicant. the decision was final, no further appeal being possible.
the first applicant, habibe i̇ncin, is the wife of kerim i̇ncin; the second to seventh applicants are his children; the eighth applicant is his mother and the remaining seven applicants are the siblings of kerim i̇ncin. in june 1995 kerim i̇ncin had gone back to their village in turkey to collect a sum of money he was owed. while at the military station kerim i̇ncin had been questioned and subjected to ill-treatment. after having detained him at the station for a week, the soldiers had taken him back to the village, where they had shot him and buried him. the prosecutor started an investigation into the applicants’ allegations immediately. in the course of the investigation, between 2005 and 2006 the prosecutor questioned the applicants and other members of their family. during the same period the prosecutor also identified, summoned and questioned a large number of witnesses and members of the military who had lived or worked in the region at the time of the events but who, in the years that had elapsed since the killing, had moved to different parts of the country. on 26 may 2006 the prosecutor asked the hakkari gendarmerie command whether there would be any security concerns if he were to visit that cemetery with a view to exhuming a body. in respect of the requests made during winter months the military informed the prosecutor that it would not be safe to go to the area because of adverse weather conditions. on 18 june 2009 the prosecutor went to the cemetery in question and a body was exhumed from a grave in his presence. it was subsequently established by dna analysis that it was the body of kerim i̇ncin. the following day the prosecutor prepared an indictment and charged y.k. the two applicants who had introduced the complaint with the prosecutor on 22 march 2005 (see paragraph 6 above), namely halima i̇ncin and hazım i̇ncin, joined the criminal proceedings as interveners. in the course of the trial a total of twenty hearings were held. and the proceedings before the court of cassation are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in voluntari. the applicant gave statements on 27 february and 11 august 2004. to falsify the date of registration of the applications. he decided not to institute a criminal investigation against m.c.i. had asked some civil servants at voluntari city hall to antedate the registration of the applications. in respect of the charges brought against them. changed the statements she had made initially before the prosecutor and stated that the applicant had only called her and asked her to help m.c.i. with the registration of the applications as the latter had arrived after closing time. two other witnesses made statements at the same hearing. by a judgment of 9 may 2005 the buftea district court convicted n.g. no new pieces of evidence were adduced before the bucharest court of appeal. it convicted the applicant of inciting intellectual forgery and imposed a suspended sentence of six months’ imprisonment, placing him on probation. the appellate court based its reasoning on the evidence existent in the file. however, it did not question the applicant, the co-defendant n.g., having reassessed the facts without rehearing any evidence, it arrived at the conclusion that the applicant had incited n.g.
the first and second applicants are ilinden’s chairman and deputy chairman. 44079/98, 20 october 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria, no. 46336/99, 24 november 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria, no. бос), the blagoevgrad regional court refused to register ilinden. also, ilinden’s aims, as defined in its articles of association, contravened article 44 of the constitution (see paragraph 22 below). it was true that ilinden intended to use peaceful means to attain those aims. the real reason for the refusal to register it had been that it had advocated opinions which were at odds with official opinion. the registration papers met all the required formalities. it held that its aims, as set out in its articles of association, were political, which was not permissible for an association seeking registration under the non-profit legal persons act 2000 (see paragraphs 19-21 and 23 below). for instance, in clause 2 of its articles of association, ilinden proclaimed itself as successor to “the national liberation struggle of the macedonian nation”, and in clause 3 stated that it would “express and protect the civic, political, national, social and economic rights of macedonians living in bulgaria”. at the end of its decision, the sofia court of appeal said that it was amenable to appeal on points of law before the supreme court of cassation. in a decision of 30 april 2013 (опр № 133 от 30.04.2013 г. it held that under the applicable provisions of the 1952 code of civil procedure, as construed in a binding interpretative decision in 2001 (see paragraph 24 below), appellate decisions upholding refusals to register a non-governmental organisation had been amenable to appeal on points of law. however, that was not the case under the 2007 code of civil procedure, which had come into effect on 1 march 2008. analysing in detail the applicable provisions of the new code, it confirmed the manner in which the first three-member panel had interpreted them.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in yerevan. he is a former minister of foreign affairs and at the material time he headed a political movement called “civil disobedience”. on 5 may 2007 criminal proceedings were instituted under article 190 § 3 (1) of the criminal code (money laundering) in respect of the applicant. on 7 may 2007 the applicant was arrested and on 10 may 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months, upon an application by the investigator, taking into account the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that the applicant, if remaining at large, could abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings. the applicant objected to that application, arguing that the investigator had failed to submit any well‑founded arguments in support of the allegation that he would abscond or obstruct justice, whereas he had no previous convictions, was known to be of good character, had a permanent place of residence and stable social life, and was a well-known public figure. the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal within fifteen days. on 11 may 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising similar arguments. on 24 may 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to uphold the decision of the district court, finding that the nature and the dangerousness of the imputed offence, the particular circumstances of the case and the possible investigative measures to be carried out gave sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant could obstruct the investigation. on 2 july 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application by the investigator, finding that the applicant, if remaining at large, could obstruct the investigation, abscond, exert unlawful influence on the persons involved in the proceedings and commit another offence. the district court’s decision stated that it could be contested before the criminal court of appeal. on 3 july and 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised. on 31 august 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan extended the applicant’s detention by two months, upon an application of the investigator, on the same grounds as before. on 3 september 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal, raising arguments similar to those previously raised 15. on 6 september 2007 the investigator decided to replace the applicant’s detention with a written undertaking not to leave his residence and to release him in view of the fact that the investigative measures would take some time and it was no longer necessary to keep the applicant in detention. on 17 september 2007 the criminal court of appeal decided to leave the applicant’s appeal of 3 september 2007 unexamined in view of the fact that he had been released.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in blagoevgrad. 46336/99, 24 november 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria, no. 34960/04, 18 october 2011; singartiyski and others v. bulgaria, no. the rally would consist of the laying of wreaths and flowers and the reading of a short address. that parallel event made the staging of the rally impossible. on 18 september 2006, again acting on behalf of the macedonian initiative committee, the applicant sought judicial review of the mayor’s decision. he argued that under the applicable international-law agreements, that organisation was entitled to stage peaceful rallies without being registered. in a final decision of 19 september 2006, the blagoevgrad district court held that the application was admissible and that the mayor’s decision was amenable to judicial review. it was not appropriate to hold the rally, which, in view of its intended theme, was political in character, alongside the municipality’s event. the performance of musical works could not at all be reconciled with political addresses. the event, which was to mark the anniversary of ‘the genocide against the macedonians’, would consist of the laying of a wreath and flowers on the monument and a short speech. it therefore sent the file to the blagoevgrad district court. it held that, while the lack of registration did not amount to sufficient grounds to prohibit the rally, the fact that another event, likely to draw a number of people, many of whom were children, was due to take place on the same date in macedonia square was enough to justify the ban. they were taken to a police station, held for about three hours and charged with committing administrative offences for having tried to take part in a banned rally. on 22 october 2007 the deputy mayor of blagoevgrad imposed administrative punishments (fines of 200 bulgarian levs (102.26 euros) each) on [mr yordan kostadinov ivanov] and on a number of members of ilinden for having taken part in a banned rally, in breach of a public-order regulation issued by the blagoevgrad municipal council.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in yerevan. on 1 august 2002 the government adopted decree no. it appears that the applicant ran a small kiosk on a plot of land situated within the area to be expropriated. 1785-a, granting her the right to lease a plot of public land of 5 sq. m. at a specified address in the kentron district of yerevan for seven years and to construct and run her kiosk on this land. by the same decision, the mayor authorised the local authority of kentron district to conclude the lease agreement with the applicant. on 26 february 2008 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the mayor and kentron district, seeking to implement decision no. on 30 july 2008 the administrative court granted the applicant’s claim and obliged the mayor of yerevan to conclude the agreement specified in decision no. however, by her letter of 30 june 2009 the applicant refused to negotiate with the mayor’s office. on 16 june 2010 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the deja, requesting that the court oblige it to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008. the administrative court noted that the deja had taken certain actions in order to enforce the judgment of 30 july 2008 and that the enforcement procedure was still pending. the decision of the administrative court of 22 june 2010 was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation on 25 august 2010. on 21 october and 4 november 2010, following an enquiry by the applicant, the bailiff responded that the enforcement was in progress and that the applicant would be informed of the results. it refused to examine the applicant’s second claim. this decision was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation on 18 december 2013.
the background to the refusal to register ilinden at issue in this case has been set out in detail in the judgments in the following cases: stankov and the united macedonian organisation ilinden v. bulgaria, nos. 44079/98, 20 october 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin and others v. bulgaria, no. 46336/99, 24 november 2005; united macedonian organisation ilinden and others v. bulgaria, no. on 27 september 2010 ilinden’s board of management applied to the blagoevgrad regional court for it to be registered as an association. a detailed account of those proceedings may be found in yordan ivanov and others v. bulgaria (no. on 23 march 2014 the second and third applicants and seven other people held a meeting at which they resolved to set up ilinden as an association. бос) the blagoevgrad regional court refused the application. the court went on to note that ilinden’s articles of association stated that it would strive for, inter alia, the introduction of the macedonian language in schools, the protection of the right of macedonians to refute propaganda about their history and culture, and the protection of macedonian cultural heritage, which was being “subjected to ethnocide by bulgarian cultural institutions”. moreover, the statements, combined with the existence, albeit brief, of a political party called the united macedonian organisation ilinden-pirin, whose re-registration had recently been refused, and with the existence of organisations bearing the same or similar names, led to the conclusion that the intention was to mislead society and to obtain the registration of an organisation pursuing political aims (see paragraphs 18-20 below), or an organisation directed against the unity of the nation. the court began by saying that when assessing the aims of an association seeking registration, it had to base itself chiefly on the articles of association. in those circumstances, the application to register ilinden had to be turned down for two reasons. the refusal was a justified preventive measure. the dissenting judge noted that ilinden’s founders had complied with all formal requirements of the law. the refusal to register it was thus disproportionate and unjustified. ilinden’s founders sought to appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. the applicant was employed by the state revenue service (“the service”), division no. on 23 february 2009 the head of the service decided to terminate the applicant’s employment. on 2 april 2009 the applicant initiated proceedings in the administrative court against the service seeking to 1) have the decision of 23 february 2009 annulled; 2) be reinstated in her previous position; and 3) recover her average salary starting from the moment of her dismissal until her reinstatement to the previous position. on 17 september 2009 the administrative court granted the applicant’s three claims. this judgment was upheld in the final instance by the court of cassation and it became final on 4 november 2009. on 29 november 2009 the service paid the applicant 1,197,748 armenian drams (amd) (approximately 2,131 euros (eur) at the material time) as compensation for her unemployment during the period from 23 february to 29 november 2009. on 11 december 2009 the administrative court issued a writ of execution. on the same day the deja gave a decision obliging the service to comply with the writ of execution of 11 december 2009 within two weeks. it appears that no further actions were taken by the deja and the service in relation to the enforcement of the judgment of 17 september 2009 between the period of 25 february 2010 and 18 july 2011. on 29 may 2012 the applicant asked the deja to resume the enforcement proceedings. on the same day the bailiff gave a decision on obliging the service to take certain actions. in particular, the bailiff obliged the service to 1) annul the decision of the head of the service of 23 february 2009; 2) reinstate the applicant to her previous position; and 3) pay her her average monthly salary for the period between her dismissal and her reinstatement to the previous position. on 2 july 2012 the bailiff decided once again to terminate the enforcement proceedings on the basis of section 41(1)(8) of the enforcement of judicial acts act. 2, where the applicant had previously worked, no longer existed.
the applicant is a professor of law at a private university in skopje. she holds a doctoral degree in the field of criminal law. as she did not obtain a decision, she lodged two further requests, on 24 november 2011 and 6 february 2012. on 11 april 2012 the ministry rejected her request, holding that she did not meet the relevant criteria to obtain such recognition. the ministry further found that the bachelor’s degree which she had obtained had been awarded by the faculty of security and social defence (факултет за безбедност и општествена самозаштита), and not by a faculty of law, as required. on 10 may 2012 the applicant brought an action with the administrative court (управен суд), challenging the refusal. she argued that as a university professor at a faculty of law she met the relevant criteria. on 30 may 2013 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action. on 23 september 2013 the applicant lodged an appeal with the higher administrative court (виш управен суд). she argued that she met the relevant criteria and that the lower court had failed to properly interpret the procedural and substantive law in the case. on an unspecified date, the ministry submitted observations to the higher administrative court concerning the applicant’s case. those observations were not communicated to the applicant. on 30 january 2014 the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, reiterating in full the reasons provided by the administrative court. it restated that the recognition sought by the applicant was dependent on her having a bachelor’s degree issued by a faculty of law, a condition which she had failed to meet. the decision was served on the applicant on 19 may 2014.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in kocaeli. following a dispute with a private third party, the applicant initiated compensation proceedings. on 12 march 2009 the tuzla civil court of general jurisdiction granted the applicant compensation, amounting to 386,464.75 turkish liras (try) (approximately 174,000 euros (eur)). in the operative part of the judgment, the court indicated that the defendant party had to pay try 16,000 (approximately eur 7,400) for court fees pursuant to the law on charges. the court registry accordingly sent a payment order to the defendant party. on 18 may 2009 the applicant submitted a petition to the registry of the first instance court, requesting that the judgment be served on her in order to commence enforcement proceedings. on the same day, the court rejected the request on the ground that it was impossible under section 28(1) (a) of the law on charges (law no. 492) to serve a copy of the judgment unless the court costs that should have been born by the defendant party had been discharged. at the time when the application was introduced, the applicant had therefore been unable to bring enforcement proceedings in order to have the above-mentioned judgment executed unless she herself was willing to pay the court fees that the defendant party had failed to pay. following the introduction of the present application with the court, the domestic legislation was amended (see paragraphs 11-13 below), and subsequently the judgment in question was served on the applicant. in the absence of an appeal, the judgment became final on 17 october 2012. on 5 march 2013 the applicant initiated enforcement proceedings against her debtor. on 10 april 2013 the applicant further requested the enforcement office to place a lien on the debtor’s property. according to the documents in the file, as of 14 april 2017 the debt, which is still not enforced, amounts to try 812,648.94 (approximately eur 193,500) including the initial amount of compensation awarded by the domestic court plus interest running at statutory rate.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in timişoara. in a final judgment of 29 september 2004 (“the judgment”), the timișoara court of appeal allowed the applicant’s appeal. however, the company refused to fulfil its obligations. the first-instance judgment thus became final. on 21 april 2005 the timișoara district court allowed the request, in so far as the restriction order had been issued subsequent to the suspension of the enforcement proceedings ordered by the court (see paragraph 13 above). on 2 november 2005 the bailiff received a letter from the applicant, in which she enquired whether the company had complied with the outstanding judgment. in so far as this was the last exchange of information between the applicant and the bailiff concerning the impugned enforcement procedure, and in view of the obligations imposed by law on the creditor, who was required to play a constantly active role throughout the enforcement procedure, on 28 may 2007 the bailiff issued an official report, noting that, under article 389 of the rccp as in force at the time, the procedure had become time-barred (“perimarea executării”; see paragraph 38 below). in a decision of 18 august 2005 the timișoara district court allowed the applicant’s complaint and ordered the company to pay a coercive fine of rol 500,000 per day until it fulfilled its obligations. the complaint was lodged under the provisions of law no. in 2005 the applicant complained to different state authorities that the company’s representatives had failed to execute the judgment. on 5 december 2006 a criminal investigation was initiated against m.d., and fined him ron 1,000, namely approximately eur 250. appealed against the prosecutors’ decisions before the timişoara district court. on 5 august 2014 the company’s two shareholders decided that the company should be liquidated (dizolvare), in accordance with the provisions of law no. no appeal was lodged against the decisions taken by the companies registration office in respect of the company.
the applicants, whose names are listed in the appendix, are turkish nationals. on 17 and 18 july 2008, each of the applicants sent a letter to the halfeti (şanlıurfa) public prosecutor`s office which contained the following passage: "if using the word of “sayın” (esteemed) is an offense, then i also say “sayın abdullah öcalan”, i commit this offense and denounce myself." on 19 september 2008, the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters against the applicants. they were charged with praising an offence and offender, prescribed by article 215 of the criminal code (law no. 5237), on account of their statements in the above mentioned letters. on 9 march 2009 the halfeti magistrates’ court in criminal matters found the applicants guilty of praising the imprisoned leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation, on account of their statements in the aforementioned letters and accordingly, sentenced them each to two months and fifteen days’ imprisonment. in accordance with article 50 of the criminal code, this prison sentence was commuted to a fine of 1,500 turkish liras (try). the applicants appealed against this judgment. on 20 june 2012 the court of cassation, holding that the amount of the fine that had been imposed on the applicants did not attain the minimum requisite level, dismissed the appeal request.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in chisinau. at the material time, the applicant was a student and was undertaking an unpaid internship at a law firm. on 23 october 2008 criminal proceedings were initiated against t., a lawyer with whom the applicant worked, on charges of trading in influence. in particular, t. was accused of receiving 10,500 euros (eur) from d. to pass on to the judges examining a criminal case against a relative of d.’s in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence. the applicant had no procedural standing in those proceedings. on 30 october 2008 the police lodged with an investigating judge a request for a warrant to search the applicant’s apartment. the request was granted; the decision to issue the warrant read as follows:“the criminal investigation against t. was initiated on 23 october 2008 ... in the course of the investigation it has been established that from march until september 2008, t. extorted and received from d. in several instalments the amount of eur 10,500, [to be given to] the judges who examined d.’s relative’s case, in order to obtain his acquittal or a more lenient sentence. on the same day, a prosecutor lodged a request with the buiucani district court for a warrant to be issued for the search of the applicant’s apartment. his request took the form of a verbatim copy of the police decision. also on the same day the buiucani district investigating judge issued a decision authorising the search. on the basis of articles 41, 125, 301, 305 and 306 of the code of criminal procedure, the court:... 9. on 10 december 2008 the police searched the applicant’s apartment in the presence of her elderly mother [but not the applicant]. on 21 august 2009 the applicant lodged a request for access to the evidence which had been presented to the judge to justify the search. on 3 september 2009 the buiucani district investigating judge replied that the case file was held at the [premises of] the investigating authority and that access could only be granted pursuant to the law. it appears from the material in the case file that the criminal proceedings against t. ended with the latter’s acquittal.
the applicant was born in 1960 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant`s objection. on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
the applicant, a practising defence lawyer, represented ‒ initially before the ljubljana district court and subsequently before the appellate courts ‒ a defendant, i.p., were asked to assess the accountability of the defendant and the probability that he had committed the criminal offences of which he had been accused. replied to questions put by the applicant and the public prosecutor. under the rules of the criminal procedure act, a new expert witness should not be appointed unless there are contradictions or deficiencies in the available expert opinion or if reasonable doubt arises with regard to its correctness – the applicant therefore pointed out what he considered to be such deficiencies with respect to v.r. the applicant concluded by saying that the proposed new expert opinions would have proven that his client could not have committed the crimes with which he had been charged. furthermore, alternative less severe measures were available, such as a private prosecution for slander. the constitutional court has already [emphasised] in decision no. the expressions entailed criticism of the expert witnesses who provided expert opinions in the criminal proceedings as permanently sworn-in experts. the reasons why also the good reputation and authority of expert witnesses as impartial assistants to courts is a part of the protected value has been outlined in paragraph 13 of the reasoning of this decision. who voted against, wrote an extensive dissenting opinion. in providing its reasoning for the decision, the ljubljana higher court found that the applicant had expressed insulting value judgments which had shown contempt for the participants in the proceedings and the court and had had nothing to do with freedom of expression. as regards the level of the fine imposed on the applicant, the court noted that it reflected the nature and seriousness of the offensive statements, the fact that he was a lawyer with many years’ experience of representation in court proceedings and the fact that he had previously made similar offensive statements during the first-instance proceedings. the applicant stressed that his comments had related to j.b. he also argued that he had expressed acceptable criticism which, though presented in a slightly illustrative manner, had not been insulting to the experts but instead had challenged the credibility of their opinions. on 31 march 2008, at an administrative session, the constitutional court decided that judge j.z. (
the applicants were born in 1967, 1965 and 1972 respectively and at the time of lodging their applications they were serving their prison sentences in the muş e-type prison. on 6 and 7 march 2006 each applicant sent a letter to the ministry of justice, referring to the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan, by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicants were found guilty of breaching prison order by the erzurum h- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 5 april 2006 the applicants were each sentenced to 12 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of the statements in the above mentioned letters. on 17 april 2006 the erzurum enforcement judge rejected the applicants’ objections. on 30 june 2006 the erzurum assize court upheld the judgment of 17 april 2006. furthermore, on 4 july 2005 a disciplinary sanction was imposed on the first applicant, as he avoided visits and telephone calls to protest against the detention conditions of öcalan. he was accordingly banned from receiving visitors for 2 months. on 21 october 2005 and 14 november 2005, respectively, the erzurum enforcement court and the erzurum assize court rejected the first applicant’s appeal requests.
the applicant was born in 1930 and lives in valencia. he has lived in san josé, a residential district of valencia since 1962. in view of the problems caused by the noise, the city council resolved on 22 december 1983 not to permit any more licensed premises to open in the area. in 1993, the polytechnic university of valencia carried out a study of the levels of night-time noise during the weekend on behalf of the city council. in 1994, the applicant became president of the neighbourhood association of his district. he also asked for the withdrawal of the business licences of several establishments. on 28 june 1996 the city council adopted the municipal ordinance on noise and vibrations (ordenanza municipal de ruidos y vibraciones ‑ hereinafter “the ordinance”). in view of the fact that the levels of noise pollution did not decrease, the applicant decided to replace his windows with double glazing and to install air conditioning in order to alleviate the high temperatures caused by having the windows permanently closed in summer. on 5 january 2001 the city council issued a resolution denying his preliminary state liability claim. the report noted as follows:“the measured noise on the street and the noise perceived by neighbours in their homes, in the xuquer area of valencia – which is where the applicant lives – rise high total levels of ... 70 decibels ... those levels are clearly related to the presence of a concentration of the entertainment industry in that area (pubs and discotheques). consequently, there was a difference of 20-30 dba. it found that there was no causal connection between the noise pollution and the alleged damage caused to the applicant, since there was no evidence proving that in his particular flat the level of noise pollution exceeded the established limits. this appeal was initially dismissed on 18 october 2004. the judgment was not adopted by unanimity. they reiterated that according to the judgment delivered in the moreno gómez case (cited above), the assessment of a violation no longer depended on the evidence provided by the applicant about the seriousness of the noise pollution inside his home.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1976 respectively. it concerned a case that had caused a public outcry in turkey, namely that of metin göktepe, a journalist who was beaten to death by the police whilst under arrest in 1996[1]. the difference between doing this job [journalism] reluctantly and doing it wholeheartedly and flawlessly was apparent in his effort to report events fully, notwithstanding the hindrances created by the police at alibeyköy, where he went on the day of the events. unlike his colleagues, he perceived pushing against the police barricade as the means to reach the news behind that barricade. indeed, they thought that it was already too late. all those following the case of metin göktepe will not stop coming after t. and b., who were already guilty in people’s minds (metin göktepe davasının takipçisi olanlar, halkın vicdanında çoktan mahkum olan t. ve b. absolute protection from this fate requires constant and persistent monitoring. in addition, he called for the application of additional section 2 of the press act (law no. 5680) and article 36 of the former criminal code. he further contended that the applicants’ trial before the state security court was in contravention of articles 6 and 10 of the convention. 5680, the first-instance court also ordered the temporary closure of the newspaper for a period of seven days. had been rendered targets for terrorist organisations:“... it is not possible to reach the light from the darkness without eliminating the eliminators ... and above all, supposing that the protective ring around the former director of i̇stanbul security directorate, o.t., who executed this order, would remain in place forever would represent nothing but a lack of faith in all these struggles. were the ones who had given and executed the detention order which had resulted in metin göktepe’s death. according to the applicants, the writer had wished the cases against the two officials to be followed up by the people of turkey with a view to bringing these officials to justice.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in erzincan. the applicant was a civil servant in the erzincan provincial directorate of environment and forestry, and at the time of the events he was a member of the local branch of a trade union affiliated to kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions). on 27 november 2004 and 12 december 2004 respectively, the applicant participated in a press statement and a demonstration organised by his trade union. subsequently, a disciplinary investigation was initiated against the applicant for his participation in the above mentioned trade union activities. on 31 august 2005 a disciplinary sanction in the form of a reduction in salary was imposed on the applicant for having participated in trade union activities. on 27 october 2005 the applicant filed a petition with the sivas administrative court and requested the annulment of the disciplinary sanction that had been imposed on him. on 18 may 2006 the sivas administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request, considering that the administrative decision was in accordance with law and there were no grounds for its annulment. on 20 october 2008 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgment of the sivas administrative court.
the first applicant, mrs daniela nedescu, is married to the second applicant, mr călin nedescu. they were born in 1976 and live in bucharest. the applicants’ embryos and those of other couples were kept in containers. each container had different vials for each set of embryos. they had to be accompanied by an embryologist and provide a special container with liquid nitrogen. on 21 july 2010 the applicants went to the ifm accompanied by an embryologist, however, they were not allowed to retrieve the embryos. they were asked instead to show that the transplant agency had approved the transfer. the applicants were directed to bring a claim for damages before a civil court. the applicants appealed against the judgment to the high court of cassation and justice. hospital who took delivery of the embryos, drew up a disclaimer to the effect that the genetic material listed in the inventory accompanying the embryos had been received without any prior checks of the vials, that it had not been possible for her to check each individual item owing to the absence of the embryologist who had participated in the initial freezing and that the procedures in use at that time were different from those used by the first custodian. hospital informed the applicants that in order to retrieve their embryos they had to agree on a date, obtain an authorisation document from the transplant agency, make sure a certified specialist embryologist was present and provide a special container with liquid nitrogen from an accredited transportation company. it also had to comply with the relevant legislation on the removal and transfer of genetic material and with the conditions set down by the transplant agency in a decision of 3 june 2011, decision no. the representative also stated that the existing embryos could be transferred to the mother at the hospital but that the hospital’s own doctors would not carry out the procedure as they could not assume any responsibility owing to the quality of the embryos. however, the hospital preferred that such a transfer be performed elsewhere. they indicated that they were able to bear the costs of becoming custodians.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in galway, ireland. was closer to a and more attentive to her particular needs than the applicant. on 18 may 2010 the gdańsk regional court dismissed an appeal by the applicant. on 22 june 2010 the gdańsk court of appeal quashed the decision of the gdańsk regional court of 4 december 2009. the court decided that the irish court had ruled on parental responsibility and that judgment could not be reconciled with the subsequent judgment of the polish court of 18 december 2009 dismissing the applicant’s claim for the child’s return under the hague convention. the irish decision was therefore no longer enforceable in poland. the reasons for a decision not to return a child under article 13 (b) were factual in nature and could not create a new custodial right. on 28 august 2011 a court-commissioned clinical psychological report was published. in october 2011 the applicant lodged an application with the polish ministry of justice to enforce the judgment of the high court of ireland of 9 september 2011 and for the return of the child to her. it stated that a had wished to stay in poland where she had had home, school, and friends. brought proceedings in the polish courts for an order that a be returned to him. on 4 july 2011 the gdańsk regional court granted m.k. a was found by the court to have settled well in malbork since she was doing well at school and had good relations with her fellow students. in may 2010 the applicant saw a in poland over several consecutive days. she also saw her in february 2011 and attended her birthday party in march 2011.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in smolyan. in two final judgments of 28 february 2005 and 8 may 2006 the supreme court of cassation awarded the applicant pecuniary damages in respect of breach of contract for construction works which she had carried out. the awarded damages comprised bgn 52,784 for the principal amount, plus bgn 17,685 in default interest and bgn 5,433 in costs and expenses, or a total amount of bgn 75,902.93, the equivalent to 38,000 euros (eur). the damages were awarded to the applicant against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport – ministry of education and science (“the centre”, a state body subsidised by the ministry of education and science and exercising certain functions delegated by the ministry). by an order of 25 may 2005 the minister of education closed down the centre and ordered that its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education. the ministry then established a state-owned joint‑stock company with part of the centre’s property, including the real estate in which the applicant had carried out the construction works. on 13 may 2005 and 15 march 2007 the applicant was issued with two writs of enforcement for the amounts awarded in the final judgments of 2005 and 2006 (see paragraph 5 above) and on 6 february 2008 she presented the writs to the ministry of education asking it to pay. the ministry replied in writing that it was not the successor to the centre and did not owe payment to the applicant. in october 2009 the applicant reiterated her request but received a similar reply by the ministry. the ministry also pointed out that payment could not be sought from the state-owned joint-stock company either as it had a legal personality separate from that of the ministry. by a letter of 23 september 2010, the minister provided a similar explanation to the applicant. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the minister’s refusal. in a final decision of 8 april 2011 the supreme administrative court rejected the appeal as inadmissible. as of 19 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been reported.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in saatli. according to the applicant, during these meetings r.a. firstly demanded that he stop writing articles about the ministry. a journalist who had been heavily beaten in may 2006. on 24 july 2007 they met again at a restaurant in baku. during the meeting when the applicant received 3,500 united states dollars from r.a., on 26 july 2007 the applicant was charged under article 311.1. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“the first-instance court, when deciding to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of mushfig huseynov, has correctly taken into account the character and degree of public dangerousness of the committed crime, the possibility of his absconding from the investigation, and the fact that the sanction provided for the commission of this act is over two years’ imprisonment. on 19 october 2007 the nasimi district court granted the prosecutor’s request by extending the applicant’s detention pending trial by three months, until 24 january 2008. the applicant did not make any mention of his and his lawyer’s absence from the hearing of 19 october 2007 in his appeal. on 31 october 2007 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the nasimi district court’s decision of 19 october 2007 was justified. it appears from the appellate court’s decision and the transcript of the court hearing of 31 october 2007 that the hearing was held in the absence of the applicant, but in the presence of his lawyer. on 25 december 2009 the applicant was released from serving the remainder of his sentence after being pardoned by a presidential decree. on 1 august 2007 a television programme concerning the applicant’s arrest on 24 july 2007 was broadcast on a private television channel. at the end of the programme the narrator stated that the criminal investigation was ongoing and that the public would be informed of further developments.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in sofia. the sofia municipal council approved the exchange of a municipal flat for a smaller flat owned and occupied by the applicant in december 2005. however, the mayor of sofia did not issue the necessary order and did not sign a contract for the exchange, as provided in the applicable rules. the applicant brought judicial review proceedings challenging the mayor’s tacit refusal to act. the sofia administrative court quashed the mayor’s tacit refusal in a judgment of 1 april 2010 and instructed the mayor to issue an order for the exchange of the flats. that part of the judgment became final and enforceable on 19 may 2010. by a decision of 25 march 2010 the sofia municipal council revoked its december 2005 decision approving the exchange of the two properties. the applicant lodged a challenge against that 25 march 2010 decision. in a final judgment of 7 march 2011 the supreme administrative court declared the council’s decision of 25 march 2010 null and void. on 18 april 2011 the mayor issued a decision explicitly refusing to issue an order for the exchange of the two flats. following an application by the applicant for judicial review, on 30 march 2012 the supreme administrative court declared that decision null and void as having been issued in breach of the judgment of the sofia administrative court of 1 april 2010. the court also instructed the mayor to issue an order for the conclusion of the exchange agreement. the mayor ordered the flat exchange on 6 march 2013 and the applicant signed a contract for the exchange on 25 june 2013.
fnass, which was established in 1992, is a federation of trade unions representing professional athletes, which today comprises the unions representing track and field athletes (saf), basketball players (snb), cyclists (uncp), footballers (unfp), handball players (ajph) and rugby players (provale). of the sports code, which has undergone several amendments since. article 6 of the order (article l. 232-13-1 of the sports code, see paragraph 63 below) provided, in particular, that individualised anti-doping testing of athletes included in the testing pool could be carried out at training and sporting venues, but also “at any location chosen with the athlete’s agreement at which the test can be carried out in compliance with the athlete’s right to respect for his or her privacy, including, at his or her request, at home.” in an application registered on 1 june 2010 some of the applicants (unions and twenty-four individual applicants), together with other athletes, requested the conseil d’état to set aside the order, and in particular articles 3 and 7 thereof (see paragraphs 8 and 10 above). in their view, the unconditional implementation of article 3(i)(3)(d) of the order, allowing tests to be carried out independently of sporting events and outside training periods, meant that between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. (the testing period laid down by article l. 232-14 of the sports code, see paragraph 64 below) the athletes in the testing pool faced the permanent prospect of physically intrusive tests. they had all undergone testing, some of them between two and eight times. (b)  information provided by the applicants 15. in their observations in reply of 3 december 2013 the eight applicants who were not in the afld testing pool (see paragraph 13 (a) above) stated that they were in the testing pool of the international rugby board (irb). they stated that they were required to declare their whereabouts in france on the same basis as the applicants included in the afld testing pool and that the afld, which had subsidiary powers in that regard, was empowered to impose sanctions on them. they produced a letter from the afld to the president of the national basketball league dated 11 june 2010, asking the latter to send a list of players by 30 august 2010 who should be included or retained in the testing pool. the applicant, who was born in 1958, is a french national. in an email of 16 march 2012 the uci informed the afld that the applicant was no longer in the uci testing pool. this convention, which is the european reference instrument, has been ratified by all the council of europe member states and by five non-member states (australia, belarus, canada, morocco and tunisia). the provisions of the wadc operate in conjunction with five international standards. as the wadc is not binding on states because the instruments adopted by wada are governed by private law, it was decided to draw up an international convention in order to provide an internationally recognised legal framework allowing states to incorporate the code into their domestic legislation.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in cork. in 1995 she became the patient of dr b, a consultant endocrinologist. he spoke by phone with the applicant, telling her that the tumour was very unsatisfactory. as the drug led to severe gastrointestinal side effects within a short time, dr b reduced the dosage by half. it appears there were no side effects following the injections of october and november 2000. at the end of the year the applicant was unwell, and was hospitalised in early january 2001 suffering from vomiting, diarrhoea, severe exhaustion, headaches, cramps and muscular spasms in her arms and legs. in may 2004 the applicant commenced civil proceedings in the high court against dr b and the hospital. the hospital entered its defence in june 2005, and also sought further and better particulars. the hearing commenced on 13 april 2010 and took place over twelve days. the judge did not accept that dr b had failed to monitor adequately the effects of the drug on the applicant during the months that she received it. it considered that dr b’s actions had been in keeping with the relevant domestic legal principles. as surgery was not possible, the only alternative was medication. it was, the court of appeal held, reasonably open to him to hold that view. as for the argument that the doctor should have also presented a “do nothing” option, the court of appeal described this as “somewhat unreal”. on 8 march 2016 the supreme court refused.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kyustendil. in a judgment of 15 august 2004 the sofia district court awarded the applicant bgn 2,120.28 (about 1,100 euros (eur)) in damages, plus the legal interest for the period starting on 11 february 2003 until full payment, and bgn 200 in costs and expenses, against the national centre for recreation, rehabilitation and sport (“the centre”). the centre was a state body subsidised by the ministry of education. it exercised certain functions entrusted by the ministry. the damages were awarded for loss of salary following the applicant’s unlawful dismissal from work. the judgment became final on 11 february 2008. in the meantime, on 25 may 2005 the minister of education ordered that the centre be closed down and its remaining property be managed by the ministry of education. the ministry then established a state-owned joint-stock company with part of the centre’s property. on 26 november 2008 the applicant was issued with a writ of enforcement for the amount awarded against the centre in the final judgment of 11 february 2008 (see paragraph 5 above). on 18 march 2009 he filed a request with the minister for education for payment of that amount. the ministry of education replied in may 2009 that neither the ministry, nor the state-owned joint-stock company, was the successor of the centre and that the amount claimed was not due by them. as of 23 march 2015, the date of the applicant’s last communication to the court, no change in the above circumstances had been recorded.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in giresun. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties and as they appear from the documents submitted by them, may be summarised as follows. who was the sole eyewitness to the incident. who worked in the same primary school and was also the uncle of x.’s mother, asserted before the court that although he had never witnessed any suspicious behaviour on the part of the applicant, he had heard a colleague, i̇.k., say that the applicant had engaged in indecent behaviour towards some pupils at the school where he had worked previously. confirmed that the applicant had apologised to him following the incident. a teacher at the primary school, from a.t., the medical diagnosis was stated as autism. entered the room, he was trying to get the minor off him. [ moreover, the consistent statements of e.u., [...]the event has shocked and distressed the town community as well as the school... the severity of this event is further exacerbated by the fact that the student in question is a mentally disabled child, ... unable to express or defend herself...this is a disgraceful thing for a civil servant. [ he added that it was not logical that he would have committed the alleged act in the presence of another pupil in the classroom right before the start of the classes. on 5 july 2006 the supreme disciplinary council issued the following decision in relation to the applicant, in so far as relevant:“upon examination of the file ... and of the defence statement duly taken [from the applicant], the following has been decided:on the basis of the information and documents in the file, the veracity of the act [harassment of x.] attributed to the applicant has been conclusively established... for this reason, it has been decided unanimously to accept the proposal to dismiss the applicant from the civil service in accordance with section 125 § e (g) of the law no. 657 provides that shameful and disgraceful conduct that is incompatible with the civil service requires dismissal from the civil service. on 7 july 2010 the supreme administrative court rejected the applicant’s rectification request.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kırıkkale. on 25 september 1998 the applicant was arrested by police officers and taken into custody on suspicion of being a member of an illegal organisation. he confessed that he was a member of the organisation in question and gave information about certain activities in which he had participated. on 2 october 1998 a statement was taken from the applicant by the istanbul public prosecutor. he confirmed the statement he had made to the public prosecutor, but withdrew the one he had made to the police. the applicant alleged that he had given the statements under duress. on 16 december 1998 the other co-accused, namely g.t., on 8 march 1999 the trial court, noting the absence of the accused, decided to adjourn the hearing. at the hearing held on 2 june 1999, the applicant gave evidence in person and stated that he had been forced to sign his previous statements. at the same hearing, the other co-accused, namely a.b. they did not make any statements in respect of the applicant. while the criminal proceedings against the applicant were pending, on 18 june 1999 the constitution was amended and the military judge sitting on the bench of the istanbul state security court was replaced by a civilian judge. when asked his comments concerning those statements, the applicant rejected them, maintaining that he had had no connection with the accusations. on 25 april 2001 the public prosecutor read out his observations on the merits (esas hakkında mütalaa) and requested that the applicant be convicted and sentenced under article 125 of the former criminal code. on 27 march 2002 the applicant’s lawyer reiterated his previous defence submissions.
the applicant political party has its registered seat in budapest. in the course of the campaign several opposition parties called on voters to boycott the referendum or to cast invalid ballots that would not count in the final tally but could still be interpreted as rejecting the idea of the referendum. the posting and sharing of photographs were anonymous. the application was reported in major online journals. in a decision of 30 september 2016 the national election commission found that the application infringed the principles of fairness of elections, voting secrecy, and the proper exercise of rights (rendeltetésszerű joggyakorlás), and ordered the applicant organisation to refrain from further breaches of section 2(1)(a) and (e) of act no. xxxvi of 2013 on electoral procedure and article 2(1) of the fundamental law. it held that taking photographs of ballot papers could lead to electoral fraud. by a judgment of 10 october 2016 the kúria upheld the commission’s decision as to its finding regarding the infringement of the principle of the proper exercise of rights. the complainant maintained that by operating the mobile telephone application and by encouraging voters to make use of it, the applicant political party had infringed the principles governing the bona fide and proper exercise of rights, and also the principles of fairness and secrecy of elections. the applicant political party sought judicial review of this decision as well. it reduced the fine to huf 100,000 (approximately eur 330). citizens regularly share events, thoughts and opinions on internet websites through photos taken with their mobile phones. in the context of elections, this led to the fact that all over the world, voters take photos of their ballot papers and share it through social media. thus, it argued that these aims could not serve as a legitimate basis for restricting the right to freedom of expression. it reiterated the kúria’s finding that although the case related to the freedom of expression of voters, this had not been infringed by the decision of the election commission, which had only found that the method used – that is to say uploading photographs to a mobile application – had not been in compliance with the obligation to exercise voting rights in accordance with their purpose.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in ankara. around 2 a.m. while he was patrolling with his colleague, s.a., according to the applicant they had also offered to take her to the police station, which she had also declined. had started behaving strangely, taking off her clothes and acting in a sexually inviting manner. and told him that they had to leave immediately. told the police that she could not remember whether the police officers had taken her to an apartment or some other place as she had been very intoxicated. was carried out on the same day, showing that she had no bruises on her body. he therefore argued that the case should be referred to the ankara assize court, which has jurisdiction to hear such charges. who, contrary to her previous statements, submitted that the officers had not raped her and had not taken her anywhere without her consent. on 13 september 2005 the ankara assize court acquitted the applicant and s.a. could not be deemed to have committed the separate offence of the unlawful use of a public vehicle. he repeated his earlier statements that s.k. he has therefore committed the offence of ‘sexual assault’ and he furthermore used his position as a police officer by calling the victim a ‘suspect’ in order to lure her into the police car ... criminal proceedings are pending against the applicant on charges of abuse of authority under article 240 of the turkish criminal code. after examination of the file, it appears that the case concerns the applicant’s dismissal from the police force on the basis of a disciplinary investigation which established that he had intercourse with a woman without her consent on the pretext of calling her a suspect .., by asking her to get into a police car so that he could verify her identity at the police station, although in the end he took her to a piece of empty land and had intercourse with her without her consent. one judge out of the five expressed a dissenting opinion, reasoning that the applicant had been acquitted of the charges in the parallel criminal proceedings, including of rape, and that therefore the disciplinary decision to dismiss him from the police force on those grounds could no longer be upheld.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in budapest. they married in 2002, and their relationship, partly due to a significant difference in age, as well as their life and work, were constantly the subject of widespread media coverage. on an unspecified date in 2008 an article was published in a daily newspaper, blikk, based on an interview with the applicant, revealing that she wanted to have a child who would be a blood relative of both her and her late husband and have the same intellect and attitude as him. the front page of the newspaper contained a photograph of the applicant with her late husband and the headline “trampling on the memory of faludy. the applicant asked for a further article to be published but the newspaper declined. she maintained that the headline published on 26 march 2008 had negatively affected her public image. she had also received a lot of criticism from her acquaintances. the remainder of the applicant’s claim for compensation was dismissed. the kossuth prize winner and internationally recognised poet had a tendency to push the boundaries, openly admitted his homosexual adventures and love affairs, and held that taboos were to be dismantled. therefore, when the country just began to digest and accept his relationship with fanny, the poet accepted an offer from penthouse magazine, which has since closed down, agreeing to be presented in the magazine in high-quality erotic pictures with his lover ... [the plaintiff] had even been subject of numerous hurtful and degrading remarks and attacks during györgy faludy’s life. based on the witness statements and the role the plaintiff’s late husband played in public life, the court concluded that the applicant’s idea about childbearing was not contrary to the thinking of györgy faludy...” 13. on 8 december 2011 the budapest court of appeal reversed the previous judgment finding an infringement of the applicant’s reputation and dismissed her action in its entirety. it also stressed that statements should be assessed in context and with regard to their background. the applicant lodged a petition for review with the kúria. since it was not devoid of factual basis, it could not be considered humiliating, hurtful or offensive and as such had not infringed the applicant’s dignity.
the applicants’ particulars appear in the appendix to this judgment. most of them went to bosnia and herzegovina but some also went to serbia. on 5 november 1997 croatia ratified the convention. during the night of 4 to 5 august 1995 all the family, save for p.m., fled croatia. p.m. was killed during operation storm on 5 august 1995. the villages of razbojište, krupa and žegar and the settlement of milići are located near each other. on 11 august 2015 the zadar police received an anonymous letter stating that on 10 august 1995 two men, v.g. on 26 august 2015 the zadar police informed the zadar county state attorney’s office that five persons had been killed in the settlement of milići during operation storm, one of whom was p.m., who had died on 5 august 1995. he had been in benkovac (a town situated some forty kilometres from žegar) throughout operation storm. a croatian soldier and member of the 72nd battalion during operation storm. he also said that he had never been to žegar and had never heard of anyone being killed there. on 22 january 2016 the zadar county state attorney’s office informed its counterpart in split county that it had not been able to confirm the allegations made in the anonymous letter of 11 august 2015 as there was no indication that twelve elderly people had been killed in the “milića” cave. in addition, the claim had become statute‑barred. during the proceedings information was obtained from the archives of the ministry of defence showing that the croatian army had entered the area in question on 6 august 1995, whereas p.m. had been killed on 5 august 1995. the first-instance judgment was upheld by the zagreb county court on 21 september 2010.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. according to the terms of the contract the applicant undertook to act as a legal representative for the ministry in a case before the international court of arbitration in paris, for which the ministry was to pay him 58,100 bulgarian levs (bgn, about eur 29,600). this sum comprised a legal fee and all related costs and expenses incurred by him in connection with the representation. the ministry paid the applicant half of the amount due on the day the contract was signed. the proceedings before the international court of arbitration in paris ended on 28 november 2005. the sofia bar association terminated those proceedings the same year after establishing that the applicant had not acted contrary to the interests of the ministry. the ministry did not pay the balance due to the applicant. instead, on 26 july 2006 the ministry brought a civil claim against him in court, seeking damages for his failure to carry out the duties ensuing from the contract of 15 july 2004. the court held, however, that the applicant owed the ministry the amount of bgn 4,648 (about eur 2,300) by way of penalty because during the arbitration proceedings he had omitted to transmit to the ministry a request by the arbitrator that the original of a document be submitted to the latter. the penalty agreed in the contract between the ministry and the applicant was payable in the event of the failure of the applicant to comply with his obligations and the ministry did not need to prove that it had incurred any loss as a result of the applicant’s conduct. the judgment of the sofia court of appeal thus became final on that date. on 15 july 2011 the ministry replied that its debts were to be paid from its annual budget and, in the event of the non-availability of funds, money for outstanding debts was to be included at the latest in the following year’s budget. the ministry also asked the applicant to submit the original writ of execution. on 2 august 2013 the applicant again asked the ministry in writing to pay him the outstanding amount. they replied in writing the same month stating that they had received the original writ of enforcement on 24 february 2006 but could not trace what had happened to it thereafter.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in leipzig. on 20 july 2012 the munich ii regional court, after taking evidence at seventeen days of hearing, issued a decision limiting the prosecution to charges concerning four incidents which had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. in its findings of fact, the regional court stated that between january 2001 and october 2007 the applicant had forced p., aged between 29 and 35 at the relevant time and suffering from a moderate mental disorder and an autistic and speech disorder, to satisfy him manually or orally on at least fifty further occasions (out of the at least 300 offences the applicant had initially been charged with, see paragraph 7 above). the applicant had systematically threatened p. that she would have to return to a home for the disabled if she did not comply with his requests. ´s consistent statements was confirmed by further witnesses and three psychological expert opinions on p. the regional court explained that it had restricted the conviction to the four events that had taken place between 19 and 25 august 2007. it had simply been impossible to determine their exact time and place due to the victim’s speech disorder. in the impugned passages of the judgment, the regional court found as follows:“the chamber is convinced on the basis of the credible statement by the injured party that in addition to the four cases between january 2001 and october 2007 on which judgment was passed, at least 50 other comparable cases occurred. die geschädigte selbst gab an, der angeklagte habe sie bereits ab dem jahr 2001 zu sexuellen handlungen genötigt. ab dem jahr 2003 sei die frequenz dieser vorfälle gestiegen und der angeklagte habe ungefähr alle 1 ½ wochen sexuelle befriedigung von ihr verlangt. selbst wenn man zugunsten des angeklagten die jahr 2001 und 2002 sowie den august und oktober 2007 unberücksichtigt lässt und zudem davon ausgeht, dass es ab dem jahr 2003 lediglich einmal im monat zu derartigen vorfällen kam, so ergeben sich 56 fälle. nach abzug eines weiteren sicherheitsabschlags geht die kammer von mindestens 50 weiteren, vergleichbaren fällen im gesamten zeitraum von januar 2001 bis oktober 2007 aus. da sich nicht mehr mit sicherheit aufklären ließ, in welchen fällen der angeklagte die geschädigte durch seine drohung zu einer oralen und in welchen zu einer manuellen befriedigung brachte, geht die kammer insoweit von 50 weiteren fällen der manuellen befriedigung aus.”) the federal public prosecutor general argued that the regional court had been entitled to take account of the sexual offences committed previously by the applicant as an aggravating element as part of his previous history (vorleben) and thus as one of the elements in setting his sentence under article 46 § 2 of the criminal code (see paragraph 18 below). on 6 february 2013 the federal court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal as ill-founded, without giving specific reasons.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kyiv. between november 2005 and june 2006 and then between june and march 2008 the applicant was one of the equity partners of the law firm magisters & partners ltd (subsequently renamed magisters ltd). accordingly, changing the legal services’ provider would be costly and unjustified. in describing the applicant’s actus reus, the prosecutor found that he had bypassed the registry of the ministry of justice when accepting the request from naftogaz and issuing his letter in reply; that his conclusion about the existence of exceptional conditions for naftogaz not to pursue a bidding procedure had been in contradiction with the applicable legal provisions; and that he had had no right to put that conclusion on official ministry of justice paper. the subsequent extension by naftogaz of its contract with magisters ltd had caused considerable losses to the state budget. later that day the investigator called the applicant by telephone to summon him for questioning. at the time, he was in hospital with his wife, who was giving birth to their third child. in the afternoon of 22 december 2010, the applicant appeared before the investigator and after being questioned was arrested at 4.50 p.m. under articles 106 and 115 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”; see paragraph 41 below). the procedural rights of arrestees were also listed. the applicant signed it with a remark that he considered his arrest as unlawful given that he had complied with the investigator’s summons in accordance with the ccp and that there was no risk of him hindering the establishment of the truth as he was no longer a civil servant. on 24 december 2010 the applicant challenged his arrest before a court. that indicated, in his opinion, that he had had no intention of absconding or hindering the investigation. also on 24 december 2010 the investigator applied to the court for the applicant to be held in pre-trial detention. the court therefore extended the applicant’s preliminary detention to ten days as a temporary preventive measure. it rejected the applicant’s complaint about his arrest as unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in csobánka, hungary. also a hungarian citizen, married in the united states of america, where they had lived since 1996. on 26 december 2004, after a quarrel, h.b. the interim decision became final on 14 january 2006. meanwhile, on 29 november 2005 the applicant had lodged a criminal complaint with the szentendre police department alleging child abduction. on 2 april 2008 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint with the sopron police department alleging h.b. the complaint submitted by the applicant on 27 june 2008 was rejected by the sopron police department on 16 july 2008. as a consequence, they became aware that the child was registered as attending school in sopron. on the basis of this information, on 28 june 2013 the applicant’s father lodged a criminal complaint with the szentendre police department alleging unlawful change of a minor’s residence. and the child might be residing in the united states. had not been on the flight indicated by the canadian police. the proceedings of the latter were also fruitless. was apprehended in budapest and the child could at last be located. the judicial or administrative authority may also refuse to order the return of the child if it finds that the child objects to being returned and has attained an age and degree of maturity at which it is appropriate to take account of its views. article 14in ascertaining whether there has been a wrongful removal or retention within the meaning of article 3, the judicial or administrative authorities of the requested state may take notice directly of the law of, and of judicial or administrative decisions, formally recognised or not in the state of the habitual residence of the child, without recourse to the specific procedures for the proof of that law or for the recognition of foreign decisions which would otherwise be applicable.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in town uzlovaya, tula region. it took them about two hours to clear the square. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. on 6 may 2012 he took part in the demonstration at bolotnaya square. after the events the applicant continued to live at his usual address and pursue his studies. it referred to the gravity of the charges and stated that if at liberty the applicant could co-ordinate his position with accomplices, who had yet to be discovered and whose identities were still being established by the investigation. on 16 july 2012 the moscow city court upheld the detention order of 9 june 2012. it considered that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed. on 30 october 2012 the basmannyy district court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2013, essentially on the same grounds as earlier, noting that the circumstances justifying the detention order had not changed. the decision concerned eleven defendants. the moscow city court upheld that extension order on 2 july 2013. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). in addition, he had been required to strip naked and to perform sit-ups during the body search conducted in the convoy room. on 6 june 2013 court proceedings began in hearing room no. also questioned as a witness, testified that the applicant had thrown stones at the police officers.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in tekirdağ. on 9 september 1995 the applicant was arrested and taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on the same day the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court prolonged the applicant’s detention in police custody for a period of up to 15 days. on 13 september 1995 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. the applicant confessed to being a member of an illegal organisation and having been involved in a murder. organised by the police in the absence of a lawyer. both of the accused gave the details of the murder which they had committed. on 22 september 1995 the applicant was examined by a doctor from the istanbul forensic institute. a collective medical report was drawn up in respect of the applicant and five other suspects. on 22 september 1995 the applicant was heard by a public prosecutor and an investigating judge respectively. in his statements to the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied his police statements alleging that they had been taken under duress. following his questioning, the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. on 9 october 1995 a public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant with attempting to undermine the constitutional order, an offence prescribed by article 146 § 1 of the former criminal code. in the meantime, state security courts were abolished by law no. on an unknown date the applicant’s lawyer appealed against the judgment of 13 september 2007.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in kyiv. it culminated in russia cutting off supplies in early january 2009, affecting not only ukraine but also european states dependent on russian gas. 1, a claim of 11 billion cubic metres of natural gas imported by way of transit to ukraine by rosukrenergo ag was ceded to naftogaz ukrayiny. also on 26 february 2009 mr oleksandr turchynov, the first deputy prime minister of ukraine, instructed the applicant in writing to ensure prompt customs clearance of the gas in question. on 23 june 2010 the applicant appeared for questioning as a witness in the proceedings against d. he was accompanied by his lawyer. after the end of the applicant’s questioning at 3.43 p.m., the investigator informed him about the imminent institution of criminal proceedings against him. the applicant remained at the security service, without any immediate procedural steps being taken against him. by way of reasoning, the court noted that the applicant was suspected of a serious offence potentially entailing imprisonment; that he could interfere with investigative activities, either by absconding or tampering with evidence; and that he was capable of influencing witnesses, regard being had, in particular, to his connections with former colleagues, his prominent social status and his wealth. he had been a civil servant with an impeccable reputation, no prior criminal record, strong family ties and a permanent residence in kyiv. lastly, he referred to the surety offered by the members of parliament to ensure his proper conduct in the proceedings. there was no follow up to that complaint. on 14 april 2011 the pecherskyy court held a preparatory hearing for the applicant’s trial. it decided to keep him in pre-trial detention as it found no grounds to change the measure. on 26 april 2011 the pecherskyy court remitted the case to the prosecutor general’s office for further investigation given that meanwhile, on 11 april 2011, the latter had instituted criminal proceedings against former prime minister tymoshenko on suspicion of abuse of authority for signing the gas contracts in january 2009 (see paragraph 7 above). on 5 july 2011 the court of appeal released the applicant under an undertaking not to abscond.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in kharkiv. on 6 february 2004 a certain m. went to the passport registration office where the applicant worked to apply for a passport for her son, who had reached the age of sixteen. the applicant allegedly told m. that it might be time-consuming to settle the matter, in particular because of the fact that m.’s son had been born in russia and his original birth certificate was not available. it is not known why it was decided to mark the additional banknotes, not only the usd 100 note. at about 1 p.m. on the same day m. entered the applicant’s office and emerged a few minutes later, indicating to the investigator and the attesting witnesses that she had given the usd 100 banknote to the applicant. the applicant also stated that she had voluntarily complied with the police’s request to give them the banknote in question. on 16 february 2004 the applicant expressed a wish to be represented by the lawyer zh. and the latter was admitted to the proceedings. she also undertook to keep the banknote until the end of the proceedings. eventually, the police located him and on 14 october 2005 he made a written statement that he would appear at a hearing scheduled for 17 october 2005 (with no further details available). it is an established fact, however, that t. did not attend any of the hearings. on 26 january 2006 the kyivskyy court once again ordered the police to ensure the presence of m. and the two attesting witnesses at the trial. she complained, in particular, that her conviction had been based mainly on the statements of m., who had never appeared before the court and whom the applicant had never been able to cross-examine. in the absence of any formal charges against her, the preventive measure ceased to apply ten days later, on 20 november 2009 (see paragraph 62 below), a fact of which the applicant was not aware. she further argued, in general terms, that the court had incorrectly interpreted article 1176 of the civil code (see paragraph 63 below) and that it had not calculated, as prescribed under the compensation act (see paragraph 64 below), an amount of compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage to which she was entitled.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in istanbul. on 20 january 2009 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody. on 22 january 2009 the edirne magistrates’ court placed the applicant in detention on remand on suspicion of forming an organised criminal organisation to commit offences and illegal possession of firearms contrary to article 13 § 1 of law no. on 8 july 2009 the edirne assize court held that it had no jurisdiction and referred the case file to the istanbul assize court. the court also ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 12 august 2009 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 29 december 2009 the first hearing was held before the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court. on 4 may 2010 the istanbul assize court held another hearing and decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on remand. the applicant was present at this hearing. the applicant filed an objection against this decision. on 25 may 2010 his objection was dismissed by the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court without holding an oral hearing. on 30 september 2010 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize court held the third hearing in the proceedings and again prolonged the applicant’s detention. on 11 october 2011 the 9th chamber of the istanbul assize held the seventh hearing in the proceedings and released the applicant from detention on remand. at the time when he present application was lodged with the court, the proceedings against the applicant were still pending before the first‑instance court. the parties did not submit any further information concerning the outcome of the proceedings.
the applicants were born in 1931, 1972, 1948, 1965, 1970, and 1964 respectively, and live in golubovci. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicants intervened, as injured party, in criminal proceedings against x, in the course of which they sought 2.705,70 euros (eur) as compensation for legal costs. on an unspecified date x and the high state prosecutor appealed. on 30 march 2009 the applicants appealed in respect of costs and expenses. on 22 september 2009 the court of appeal ruled on the appeals lodged by the high state prosecutor and x. the applicants learned of this judgment on 27 may 2010 when checking the case-file at the high court. on 28 may 2010 the applicants complained to the president of the supreme court that the court of appeal had failed to rule on their appeal. on 7 june 2010 the president of the supreme court notified them that she had been informed by the high court president that the case file had been “at the court of appeal in order for it to rule on [their] appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings given that it had not been ruled upon by [its] judgment of 22 september 2009”. on 11 january 2012 the applicants again complained to the president of the supreme court. it would appear that the court of appeal has not ruled on the applicants’ appeal. on 17 june 2011 the court of first instance (osnovni sud) in podgorica rejected the claim (odbacuje se) finding that the high court had awarded them the costs, which judgment had become final in the meantime, and that the issue was thus res iudicata. on 7 july 2011 the high court upheld this judgment. in any event, the civil proceedings could not serve to correct the final decisions issued in criminal proceedings. this decision became final on 5 january 2012, given that no appeal was lodged against it. on 10 january 2017 the high court informed the agent’s office that the court of appeal had not ruled on the applicants’ appeal in respect of costs of criminal proceedings, but that the high court, after its judgment of 14 october 2008 had become final, had issued a decision on 8 december 2011 ordering that the applicants’ representative be paid the sum awarded thereby.
at the time of the events the applicant was serving in the turkish army as a lieutenant-colonel. 19 june 2000 the applicant applied to the military prosecutor’s office. he was placed in detention on remand on the same day by the general staff military court. on the same day, the applicant gave a power of attorney to a lawyer. on 22 june 2000 the applicant’s brother şükrü aymelek, who was a lawyer, was also placed in detention on remand. on 10 april 2012 the applicant’s brother was released. 3628 (law on disclosure of assets and fight against bribery and corruption). the siblings of the applicant, şükrü aymelek and ulviye toprakkıran were also charged with the same bill of indictment with embezzlement and breaching article 13 of the law no. on 29 may 2001 the general staff military prosecutor filed an additional bill of indictment and charged the accused with additional acts related to the crimes already stated in the first bill of indictment. on 19 september 2001, the applicant submitted a petition with the prison authorities, complaining that he had not been able to see his brother şükrü aymelek, who was also detained in remand. the applicant stated that he regretted that his brother was also in prison because of him, and requested to see him. on 19 september 2002 the applicant was found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment for embezzlement and being involved in trade activities as a soldier by the general staff military court, composed of a military officer with no legal background and two military judges. on 2 april 2003 the military court of cassation quashed the judgment of 19 september 2002 on procedural grounds and on the merits. on 2 june 2004 the military court of cassation upheld the decision of 17 december 2003. the applicant submitted that witness’ written statements to the military court of cassation as well.
the applicant was born in 1963 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in the bolu f-type prison. on 3 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to the ministry of justice, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using the honorific “sayın”, meaning esteemed. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the bolu f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”). on 12 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 11 days’ solitary confinement on the orders of the board, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 25 december 2007 the bolu enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 15 january 2008 the bolu assize court upheld the judgment of 25 december 2007.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in adana. on 16 february 2006 a gathering was held in adana on the anniversary of the arrest of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation. being a member of the dtp, the applicant participated in the gathering. subsequently, clashes occurred between police officers and some demonstrators who were attempting to block the traffic. according to police reports, two police officers were injured as a result of objects thrown from the dtp building. the police then entered the dtp building and arrested 223 people, including the applicant. the next day, the applicant was detained on remand. on 10 march 2006 the adana public prosecutor charged the applicant and sixteen other people with membership of the pkk under articles 220 § 6 and 314 of the criminal code. the prosecutor alleged that the accused had participated in the public gathering in question in response to calls made by the pkk and had resisted the police officers, and that they had therefore acted on behalf of the pkk. on 5 may 2006 the applicant was released pending trial. on 10 september 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. it therefore concluded that the applicant could not be convicted of membership of the pkk or resistance to the police. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 20 november 2008 the court dismissed an objection lodged by the applicant against the above-mentioned decision. the final decision was served on the applicant on 9 january 2009.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lived in moscow until his arrest. it took them about two hours to clear the square. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. on 1 october 2012 police officer t. identified the applicant during an identification parade as a participant in mass disorder who had used violence against him. another police officer, l., also identified the applicant as a participant in acts of mass disorder who had tried to prevent the police arresting another protestor. on 17 april 2013 the moscow city court upheld the extension order. the decision concerned eleven defendants. it ordered their detention until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them. the applicant submitted that his conditions of detention had been similar. the applicant’s description of the conditions of detention during his transfer from the remand prison to court and back and the government’s submissions in that regard were identical to those in the case of yaroslav belousov (cited above, §§ 69-73). on 6 june 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow began a preliminary hearing in a criminal case against ten participants in the demonstration at bolotnaya square, who were charged with participation in acts of mass disorder and committing acts of violence against police officers. on 5 september 2013 police officer t., the alleged victim of the applicant’s assault, was examined as a witness. he did not see what was happening, but at one point ... he had been able to proceed with the flow of people towards the stage. the applicant] was standing close to the barriers, taking his hands off when the police officers used their truncheons to hit over the barriers. on 20 june 2014 the moscow city court upheld the first-instance judgment.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in moscow. it took them about two hours to clear the square. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. at some point the applicant realised that he was facing the police line and that the police were using excessive force to arrest protestors. on 30 may 2012 the basmannyy district court of moscow ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention until 6 july 2012. however, the court concluded that there were sufficient reasons to believe that he was likely to abscond, continue his criminal activity, threaten witnesses, destroy evidence or otherwise obstruct the course of the criminal proceedings. on 13 november 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the extension order, which was dismissed on 3 december 2012 by the moscow city court. on 23 april 2013 the moscow city court granted an extension of the applicant’s detention until 6 july 2013. on 6 june 2013 that court granted another extension of the applicant’s detention, until 24 november 2013. on 6 june 2013 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow began a preliminary hearing in a criminal case against ten participants in the demonstration at bolotnaya square, who were charged with participation in acts of mass disorder and committing acts of violence against police officers. a few minutes later he was taken out of the crowd and beaten, his t-shirt was torn, then ... four police officers seized him and dragged him along the tarmac to the police vehicle. [ the applicant] insists that he caused no injuries to the police officer and that his actions, provoked by panic, were taken in response to the events occurring around him. ... ... the court considers the [defendants’] arguments that they were protecting somebody from the police officers or happened to be victims of the police’s use of force as farfetched and aimed at the mitigation of their responsibility ...... no medical document which could prove the presence of injuries on the [applicant’s] body ... was provided to the court.” the applicant appealed against the judgment. on 20 june 2014 the moscow city court upheld the first-instance judgment.
the applicant company is a limited liability company established under lithuanian law with its registered office in vilnius. she had a halo around her head and was holding a string of beads. in this case the game has gone too far. ( religious people always react very sensitively to any use of religious symbols or religious personalities in advertising. the use of religious symbols for superficial purposes may offend religious people. advertisements must not include statements or visuals which are offensive to religious feelings or show disrespect for religious people.” the applicant company submitted written explanations to the inspectorate. dievuliau, viešpatie, gink dieve) and many others. a representative of the bishops conference repeated its previous position (see paragraph 16 above) and stated that it had received complaints from about a hundred religious individuals concerning the advertisements. they further submitted that the advertisements had relied on wordplay and they had been meant to be funny but not to offend anyone. the scrpa considered that “the elements of the advertisements taken together – the persons, symbols and their positioning – would create an impression for the average consumer that the depicted persons and objects were related to religious symbols”. the scrpa] considers that using the name of god for commercial purpose is not in line with public morals. the court considered that the scrpa had correctly assessed all the relevant circumstances (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above), and concluded that “the form of advertising used by [the applicant company was] prohibited because it distort[ed] the main purpose of a religious symbol (an object of religion) respected by a religious community – that purpose being to refer to a deity or to holiness”. on 20 november 2014 a different panel of the supreme administrative court refused to reopen the proceedings in the applicant company’s case. it stated that the decision of 25 april 2014 (see paragraph 25 above) had not denied the applicant company’s right to freedom of expression, but it had sought to balance that right against public morals, and the latter had been given priority.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in diyarbakır. he had to suspend his studies until he had recovered sufficiently to return to university. the faculty replied to that request by letter of 25 may 2007. on 16 august 2007 the applicant sent, through a notary, formal notice to the administration of fırat university and the faculty dean inviting them to carry out the redevelopment work requested. furthermore, any problems encountered by the applicant in attending the theoretical classes administered in a three-storey building could be resolved with the help of a companion. furthermore, all the parties involved were anxious to help students in difficulty, and there was no question of deterring the applicant from continuing his studies. on 15 november 2007 the applicant filed with the elazığ administrative court an action for annulment of the university’s replies of 25 may and 10 september 2007 and to provide compensation for the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage which he claimed he had sustained. it criticised the applicant for having opted for judicial channels, and alleged that he was acting in bad faith, adding, in that connection, that he had been informed that he would be provided with support should he decide to return to university. lastly, it pointed out that the applicant had never been barred from any course. the applicant replied, refuting the arguments put forward by the administration. he submitted that his right to education was guaranteed by domestic law and by article 2 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, and that it was incumbent on the domestic authorities to take steps to enable him to exercise that right, with respect for the principle of equal opportunities. 3194 on urban planning (see paragraph 23 above). on 13 october 2008 the faculty terminated its contracts with a number of students, including the applicant, on the grounds that they had not re-registered at the start of two successive academic years. in the reasoning of its judgment it stated, in particular, that the buildings in question had been erected in accordance with the regulations in force in 1988.
the applicants were born in 1945 and 1951 respectively and live in sliema. pursuant to the terms of a contract of 11 april 1962 a house (of fourteen rooms, including four double bedrooms) in sliema (hereinafter “the property”) owned by a third party was rented out under a contract of temporary sub-emphyteusis to j.g. for twenty-five years as from 15 june 1962 at 100 maltese liras (mtl – approximately 233 euros (eur)) per year. according to the contract the tenant was responsible for all maintenance work, both ordinary and extraordinary, internally and externally. had three children, one of whom was unmarried. at the time the applicants lived in the united kingdom. eventually the applicants agreed that j.g. subsequent to the change, the applicants found an apartment in malta which they rented at eur 2,795 annually. as a tenant and refused to accept rent from her. a seventy-year old pensioner, had a constant and considerable income (a monthly pension of 900 pounds sterling (gbp), and during her stay in malta she was letting her property in the uk at gbp 1,000 a month); she eventually sold her property in the uk for gbp 305,000. she went on to inherit various assets and sold them for a considerable sum. the applicants further relied on article 14 of the convention. it considered that the rent payable, namely eur 466 per year in accordance with the law was derisory, bearing in mind that such property had a rental market value of eur 3,000 per month – the court noted that while an architect’s valuation would have been preferable the latter sum appeared to be an appropriate rent. however, the applicants, fully aware of the factual and legal situation, opted of their own free will to purchase the property and to enter into the existing agreement with j.g., the government submitted that the applicants had failed to prove that they had been paying rent and, if so, what rent they had been paying for these premises.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1984. between 6 and 19 december 2006 the investigating judge heard oral evidence from the victims and other witnesses. during the investigation, there were several unsuccessful attempts by the investigating judge to summons b.h. having been alerted to the summons and the police inquiry, b.h. on 4 may 2007 two people who had been eye-witnesses to the incident gave oral evidence in the presence of the investigating judge and the public prosecutor. vodno” also identified the other applicant as having fired on the café. both witnesses submitted that, despite the impaired visibility, there had been sufficient light to see the applicants. denied that he had testified as an anonymous witness. ’s pre-trial statement (see paragraph 9 above). the applicants’ presence at the scene when the incident happened, as well as the development and dynamics of events, was established on the basis of the testimony of the anonymous witnesses “korab” and “vodno”, which the court regarded as credible and consistent despite “small differences which were due to the intensity of the shooting and fear for their lives”. it disregarded his statement of 1 april 2008 (see paragraph 17 above), finding that it had been given under duress and the threat that he or his family would be killed. had been visited several times by unknown people who had threatened him and his family about the testimony given in the pre-trial proceedings. they dismissed appeals lodged by the applicants in which they complained inter alia that the trial court had failed to admit evidence proposed by the defence, that their conviction could not be based solely on the statements of the anonymous witnesses, which had been unlawfully obtained, and that the trial court had not examined b.h. in this connection they found that the trial court had admitted other evidence, both documentary and verbal. as regards the evidence produced by b.h.,
the applicant was born in 1976 and is serving a sentence of life imprisonment. in december 2005 violent robberies were committed at two scrap metal collection points in odesa. in the course of the investigation, the police organised an ambush, which led to the applicant and his acquaintance, mr d., being arrested. as established by the domestic courts, before his arrest the applicant had pointed a gun at a police officer, who had knocked it out of his hands using a martial arts technique. the gun had been loaded and had had its safety catch released. on an unspecified date the applicant had free legal counsel appointed for him for the pre-trial investigation and the proceedings before the first‑instance court. on 4 september 2006 the odesa regional court of appeal, sitting as a court of first instance, found the applicant guilty of the illegal handling of arms, robbery with violence, intentional murder for profit and an attempt on the life of a law-enforcement officer. it relied, inter alia, on the statements of several eyewitnesses who had recognised the applicant. having regard to the fact that the applicant had previously been convicted of the intentional infliction of fatal injuries and that he had committed the crimes at issue while on probation following release in october 2005, the court sentenced him to life imprisonment. the applicant, who was no longer legally represented, appealed in cassation. he complained, in particular, about the absence of free legal assistance at that stage of the proceedings. the applicant contended that the first-instance court had erred in its assessment of the facts of the case and their legal classification. on 30 january 2007, following a hearing with the participation of mr d. (the other defendant) and his lawyer, as well as the prosecutor, but without the applicant or any representative from his side, the supreme court upheld the judgment of 4 september 2006. on 11 june 2007 the applicant, who was not aware of the above ruling, requested that the supreme court ensure his presence at its hearing. on 17 august 2007 a copy of the supreme court’s ruling of 30 january 2007 was sent to the applicant.
following the death of her grandmother in 2010 the applicant, who was a minor at the time, began to show signs of distress. the police arrived, seized the drugs and alcohol and checked the identity of the minors who were present. a criminal investigation was opened and the public prosecutor at the youth court was informed. they informed the social services that a criminal investigation was in progress. on 18 december 2013 the social services contacted the psychiatrist who was treating the applicant and later met the applicant. the public prosecutor stressed that the arrest of the two suspects was imminent, and requested the prosecutor at the youth court to inform him of the measures taken to implement the youth court’s decision of 9 december 2013 (see paragraph 17 above), given that the applicant was due to give evidence at the ad hoc hearing (incidente probatorio) (see paragraph 51 below). on 20 december 2013 the applicant reiterated that she did not wish to be placed in a specialist institution. on 6 february 2014 the social services told the youth court that they had had several meetings with v.c. on 13 march 2014 the youth mental health department informed the youth court that the applicant had been diagnosed as being anti-social and drug-dependent and that she had agreed to being placed in a treatment centre (comunità terapeutica). the measure took effect on 14 april 2014. left the karisma centre and returned to live with her parents. she stated that she had gone back to school and was continuing to be monitored by the social services. on 21 january 2014 the prosecuting authorities again heard evidence from the applicant. the case was set down for preliminary hearing on 6 november 2015 before the rome district court. it appears from the file that a further hearing was held on 16 february 2016 and that the proceedings are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in varna. as is apparent from the documents in the file, the applicant moved from turkmenistan to bulgaria in late 2001 together with her parents. her father opened his own construction business in bulgaria. the applicant’s parents were arrested as soon as they arrived home. he did not know where the police officers had taken the applicant’s parents but said that he thought that they had been taken to the regional investigation office. in their view, this was evidence of the mother’s reply. on an appeal by the applicant’s parents, the varna court of appeal lifted the detention orders in two separate decisions on 17 december 2002. both prospects caused the applicant anguish as she had heard that prisons were horrible both in turkmenistan and in bulgaria. she only found 15 levs (about 7 euros (eur)) in the apartment, which she used for bus tickets to go to school and for food. when questioned in the context of the domestic proceedings in the applicant’s case about the exchanges in court on 6 december 2002, the lawyer indicated that he had no recollection of them (see paragraph 35 below). the appellate court upheld the lower court’s decision on 4 october 2006. she submitted that during the hearing on 6 december 2002 on the extension of her parents’ detention, the judge had wrongly interpreted her mother’s response to the question posed regarding her care. she showed signs of accumulated tension, fear, worries, disappointment and anger towards the officials who had abandoned her to her own devices following her parents’ arrest. consequently, the court concluded that it had not been incumbent on the criminal justice system to act in any other way in order to protect the applicant. the applicant appealed to the varna court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in san jose, the united states of america. on 21 december 2005 the district court ordered the applicant to inform it by 31 january 2006 of the home addresses of the other six plaintiffs on whose behalf he had brought the proceedings. the applicant complied with the court’s order. on 29 november 2006 the applicant informed the district court on behalf of himself and the other six plaintiffs of the cancellation of the legal representation contract they had signed with their initial legal representative. on 26 january 2009 the district court amended of its own motion the decision of 16 june 2008. however, the proceedings had had to be suspended on the grounds that, according to the available evidence, four of the other six plaintiffs had died prior to 2005 and the applicant had taken no steps to identify the heirs of the deceased parties in order to enable the court to summon them as parties to the proceedings. on 14 october and 9 december 2010 and 3 march 2011 the district court adjourned the proceedings on procedural grounds to allow the plaintiffs’ legal representative to add documents to the file and to prepare his defence, and for the court to deliberate. the court further noted that the proceedings would be suspended according to the civil procedure rules if the applicant failed to comply with the court’s request. moreover, the summonses sent by the court to the known foreign addresses of the other six plaintiffs provided by the applicant had either not been received by the recipients or had been returned because the intended recipients had been unknown at those addresses. the applicant appealed on points of fact and points of law against the decision. on 28 march 2012 the county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of fact and points of law against the district court’s decision of 8 march 2011 (see paragraph 18 above). since he was the one who had brought the proceedings, he had a duty to produce evidence in respect of the persons he was representing and was solely responsible for the way he had chosen to formulate his action before the court. on 29 november 2012 the county court dismissed the extraordinary appeal for a review of proceedings instituted by the applicant against the final judgment of 28 march 2012 as having been lodged out of time. on 23 may 2013 the district court of its own motion declared the proceedings brought by the applicant on 6 september 2005 (see paragraph 6 above) to be barred by limitation on account of his inaction. it reiterated the reasons provided by the first-instance court.
the applicant company is a legal entity registered in vilnius. the main objectives of the development plan were published in the official gazette (valstybės žinios) (see paragraph 53 below). the applicant company’s claim was dismissed on 23 october 2003 by the klaipėda regional administrative court and on 27 january 2004 by the supreme administrative court. the authorities replied that the applicant company had to provide a plan of the land. in february 2006 the applicant company asked the authorities to include the land in question in the landscape management recreational zone. the working group was set on 20 july 2012 and had to provide its proposals before 19 november 2012. on 30 august 2010 the klaipėda regional administrative court allowed the claim, holding that the applicant company had been paying the land tax, which was evidence that it had been using the plot of land. on 9 may 2011 the supreme administrative court allowed an appeal lodged by the authorities. it held that the applicant company had not provided any information proving that it was the owner of the plot of land, so the authorities had not been obliged to issue planning permission for renovation of the canteen. the applicant company applied for the reopening of the proceedings. on 4 july 2012 the applicant company lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, urging it to revoke the part of the government resolution where it had been decided that the buildings at 21 miško street (the location of the applicant company’s buildings) would be demolished and to order the authorities to amend the management plan. as regards an amendment to the management plan, the court stated that that was linked to the first part of the claim and thus would not have any legal consequences on the applicant company. in november 2011 the authorities replied that it was not clear from the applicant company’s request which building (“specific, not complex or non‑specific” (ypatingas, nesudėtingas ar neypatingas), as defined in the domestic law) it was aiming to renovate. in december 2016 the applicant company appealed and asked the supreme administrative court to refer the matter to the constitutional court; to overrule the decision of the authority in charge of the curonian spit national park of 30 december 2013; to order the authority to issue the applicant company with the planning permission required to carry out major repair work and to award it eur 48,489 in respect of pecuniary damage. it also indicated that the reply could be appealed against to the supreme administrative disputes commission (“the commission”) or to the vilnius regional administrative court in one month from its reception.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in moscow. on the same day the district court granted an extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention until 6 november 2012. on 12 september 2012 the moscow city court upheld the extension order of 8 august 2012. the court referred to the gravity of the charges and the nature of the offence imputed to the applicant, along with information about his personality, namely that he had no permanent employment or regular source of income and had negative reports from his place of residence. on 11 september 2013 the ombudsman of the russian federation submitted a complaint to the presidium of the moscow city court about the extension of the applicant’s pre-trial detention and requested an alternative preventive measure for him. they provided measurement tables for the remand prison, which had been created in august 2013. on 23 november 2012 the applicant was taken for another outpatient consultation with an ophthalmologist, who concluded that there were no negative developments in his state of health. the doctor also recommended that he have eye tests once a year. on 29 march and 19 april 2013 the public commission for the monitoring of detention facilities visited iz-77/5, and the applicant complained to them about the poor quality of his mattress and the deterioration of his eyesight. on 16 october 2012 the applicant was examined by a commission of four doctors, including an ophthalmologist. a congenital coloboma of the iris [and] of the choroid. ... [the applicant’s] detention is detrimental to his health, his eyesight is deteriorating as each day goes by: the light is always on in the cell, day and night. it is evident that he has been placed in the worst cell, cold and damp, instead of being treated in the hospital. the cells had the following characteristics: 58. according to the government, the conditions in the cells at iz-77/2 were as follows: the toilet was separated by a solid partition from the rest of the cell, which provided the necessary privacy; the state of the sanitary facilities was satisfactory; the cells were disinfected and subjected to a pest control procedure once every three months or whenever necessary; the applicant had been entitled to one hour of outdoor exercise daily; the cell had been cleaned and the bedding changed weekly; the cells were equipped with forced ventilation and could be aired through a hinged window.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lived in sarajevo. by its decision of 3 august 2004, and at the recommendation of the sarajevo psychiatric clinic (the “psychiatric clinic”), the sarajevo municipal court instituted proceedings for the applicant’s placement in a psychiatric facility. on 18 august 2004, the sarajevo municipal court decided to keep the applicant in the psychiatric clinic for a maximum of 45 days (counting from the date of his placement, that is 1 august 2004). on 22 september 2004 the sarajevo canton social care centre (the “social care centre”) placed the applicant in the drin social care home (the “drin home”). on 7 january 2005, the sarajevo municipal court deprived the applicant of his legal capacity. on 10 march 2005 the social care centre placed the applicant under the guardianship of d.m., several other employees were subsequently appointed as the applicant’s successive guardians. by its decisions of 25 february 2010 and 25 december 2014, the social care centre decided that the applicant should remain in the drin home. it also found that article 5 § 4 of the convention had been breached because of the lack of judicial review of the lawfulness of the applicant’s detention. on 7 december 2015, the sarajevo municipal court restored the applicant’s legal capacity. the applicant was released from the drin home on 14 december 2015. at the applicant’s request, the social care centre again admitted him to the drin home, between 1 january 2016 and 31 march 2016. the applicant requested an extension of his stay in social care, which request was granted on 1 april 2016. the applicant was thus placed in the social and health care home for persons with disabilities and other persons (the “social and health care home”). the applicant died on 26 september 2016, while in the social and health care home.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in st petersburg. according to the applicant, in 1994 she moved in with her partner, n., who lived in a flat in st petersburg of which he was the sole owner. the applicant alleged that on 7 april 1998 her partner had borrowed 18,000 united states dollars from her for a period of two years. he had undertaken to give her his flat if he failed to repay her. on 4 march 2015 a judge of the city court refused to refer a cassation appeal lodged by the applicant to the court of cassation. in 2015 the administration of the primorskiy district of st petersburg (“the district administration”) brought court proceedings against the applicant, seeking her eviction from the flat. the administration claimed that the flat was an heirless estate and therefore the property rights to it had to be transferred to the administration. on 23 november 2015 the district court refused to evict the applicant from the flat. the court found, with reference to article 31 of the housing code, that n. had let the applicant live in the flat as a family member, and until his death had shared a common household with her. who had let the defendant live in [the flat], died on 9 may 2013. ...taking into account that none of the heirs of mr nikolayev a.a. the applicant] had been allowed to live in the flat by the former owner. she submitted, in particular, that the city court had not taken into account that she was in need of housing and had been put on a municipal housing list. on 22 august 2016 a judge of the supreme court of the russian federation refused to refer the applicant’s cassation appeal to the cassation court. on 15 may 2017 the bailiffs instituted enforcement proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in belebey, republic of bashkortostan. in october 2007 the applicant and his family moved from uzbekistan to russia, apparently for the purpose of obtaining russian nationality as well as seeking medical treatment for the applicant’s drug addiction. in december 2007 the uzbek authorities charged the applicant with large-scale drug-trafficking committed in october 2007 and issued a detention order and an international search warrant. on 12 july 2008 the applicant was arrested in moscow and on 14 july 2008 the dragomilovskiy district court of moscow ordered the applicant’s detention pending extradition, without setting any time-limit. on 9 december 2008 the russian prosecutor general’s office ordered the applicant’s extradition. on 28 january 2009 the moscow city court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s arrest and detention, and upheld the extradition. in the meantime, on 4 march 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 28 january 2009. on 10 august 2009 the applicant issued an authority form to lawyers to lodge an application with the court on his behalf. on 21 august 2009 the extradition order was enforced and the applicant was transferred to uzbekistan. on 28 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyers – who were apparently unaware of the extradition − requested an interim measure under rule 39 of the rules of court in order to stay the removal. on 1 september 2009 the court indicated the relevant measure to the russian government. however, after the russian government had informed the court about the extradition on 21 august 2009, the interim measure was lifted on 7 october 2009. the parties submitted no information on related events in uzbekistan. on an unspecified date the applicant joined his family in russia.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in khorly. on 8 may 2007 he signed a permit allowing a businessman, ya., went to the bus stop and gave money to v., who was standing there. on 17 may 2007 the komsomolskiy district court (“the district court”) authorised the applicant’s custody until 24 may 2007. the court noted that the case file contained material confirming the applicant’s wish “to go to russia to his brother”. it also noted that he might hinder the investigation by using his official position. on 16 january 2008 the district court again remanded the applicant in pre-trial detention at the prosecutor’s request. the prosecutor requested that the preventive measure against [the applicant] be changed in view of the fact that [the applicant], using publications in ... newspaper, is putting pressure on witnesses in the case (k. and a.) who have not yet been questioned by the trial court. [ however, the court believes that [the applicant], acting through unidentified individuals, has taken steps aimed at obstructing the truth from being established in the case in the course of the court’s consideration of his case. thus, according to statements of 28 december 2007 made by the victim, ya., on 23 january 2008 the kherson regional court of appeal refused the applicant leave to appeal against the decision of 16 january 2008 remanding him in pre-trial detention (see paragraph 17 above), since that decision was not open to appeal. on 29 february 2008 the district court released the applicant on bail. according to the applicant, there were up to ninety inmates in the living quarters. there were five basins and three taps for 300 detainees. there was no electricity or light at night.
is a romanian company whose registered office is in timişoara. on 12 december 2008 the timişoara finance inspectorate (hereinafter, “the t.f.i.”) the applicant company, represented by its appointed lawyer, mr. p. sălăjan, challenged before the timişoara district court the t.f.i. ’s decision to open enforcement proceedings. it claimed that it had no outstanding fiscal debts and submitted documentary evidence in this respect. at the first hearing in the proceedings the t.f.i. acknowledged that the applicant company had no outstanding tax liability and that the enforcement proceedings had been instituted in error. ’s decision to open enforcement proceedings and ordered the t.f.i. had started enforcement proceedings against the applicant company for a non-existent debt and that the latter had accordingly had to hire a lawyer and pay the trial fees in order to defend itself. lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of 16 february 2009. it claimed that the first-instance court had not observed the principle of adversarial proceedings and of equality of arms, as it had not had the opportunity to challenge the amount paid by the applicant company in lawyer’s fees, which in its opinion were too high. in a final judgment of 19 february 2010 the timiş county court, sitting in a different formation from that of 12 august 2009, allowed the request: it set aside the judgment of 12 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and allowed the appeal lodged by the t.f.i. the county court then re-examined the amount paid by the applicant company in lawyer’s fees and considered that in relation to the lawyer’s input in the case, it was justified to reduce that amount from ron 9700 to ron 700. 146/1997 on stamp duty, as a consequence of the fact that the challenge to the enforcement had been allowed.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is serving a prison sentence in mírov prison. 7332/10, 42666/10 and 61523/10, and the decision of the supreme court of 4 june 2013, no. of the supreme court’s opinion of 13 april 2011, no. in the meantime, the applicant initiated proceedings for compensation (no. on 27 november 2015 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which is apparently still under consideration. on 29 september 2014 the supreme court dismissed an appeal on points of law by the applicant. 23 c 163/2012) and one for compensation for the excessive length of that second set of compensation proceedings (no. on 5 march 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed a cassation complaint by the applicant. as the ministry did not deal with the applicant’s request within the statutory time-limit, he brought a civil action before the prague 2 district court on 10 april 2008, seeking eur 3,487.77 in compensation. however, it found that the finding of a violation would provide adequate redress, given the lack of importance of what was at stake for the applicant and the fact that he must have known the result of the proceedings as soon as the supreme administrative court had issued its first judgment. on 10 may 2007 the municipal court dismissed the latter part of the action, finding that the ministry had not been obliged to deal with the applicant’s complaint in administrative proceedings. on 30 october 2007 the applicant claimed compensation under the state liability act from the ministry of justice for non-pecuniary damage arising from the excessive length of the main proceedings (no. following an appeal by the applicant, on 5 august 2009 the prague municipal court quashed the judgment and remitted the case to the district court, finding an erroneous assessment of the statutory limitation period. on 10 may 2012 the ministry rejected the applicant’s claim, finding no delays in the main proceedings and considering their overall length as reasonable. apparently, those proceedings are still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in slavonski brod. presented a certificate confirming such citizenship. as an employee of a kindergarten in slavonski brod, was a subordinate of the applicant. on 23 october 2008 the applicant held a press conference entitled “all victims of the human resources policy of the mayor of slavonski brod, m.d.”, had denied a croatian war veteran’s daughter employment (see paragraph 11 below). during the proceedings the applicant contended that she had wanted to show all irregularities concerning the mayor’s employment of local civil servants, and that she had learnt that z.b. had requested croatian citizenship only after she had been employed as manager of the kindergarten. on 21 may 2010 the slavonski brod municipal court acquitted the applicant on the grounds that the material obtained during the proceedings showed that z.b. had been registered in 1985 in the register of births of bosnia and herzegovina, which at the time had been one of the former yugoslav republics. after a retrial, on 26 january 2012 the slavonski brod municipal court found the applicant guilty of defamation for having said “[the mayor] appointed people who are using invalid documents to crucial positions, for example z.b., the applicant was given a suspended sentence of sixty days’ imprisonment with a probation period of one year. had acquired croatian citizenship in 1992, but her citizenship certificate had later been annulled in 2008 due to some administrative irregularities, and later she had been issued with a new certificate. the slavonski brod municipal court therefore held that the applicant had uttered untrue information concerning z.b. the applicant appealed, and on 30 may 2012 the slavonski brod county court dismissed her appeal, upholding the first-instance judgment. on 26 september 2012 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicants were born in 1947 and 1971 and live in skopje. the first applicant is the father of the second applicant. on 24 december 2010 the applicants were brought before an investigating judge of the skopje court of first instance (основен суд скопје, “the trial court”). the fact that some of the suspects (but not the applicants) had decided to remain silent was considered by the panel as a factor that heightened the risk of interference with the investigation. the applicants also submitted that they did not have a previous criminal record; they had not resisted arrest and had behaved in an exemplary manner during their detention. both of them had families and possessions in the respondent state. the second applicant was a mother of three minor children. as representatives of certain companies – was yet to be secured. with regard to the risk of reoffending, the court of appeal took note of the fact that the defendants were accused of acting as an organised group over a prolonged period of time, with pre-defined roles, using the established business structure of companies in the respondent state and abroad. on 10 may 2011 the court of appeal dismissed the appeals of the applicants and the other accused, providing the same reasoning as before. it also removed the risk of reoffending from the list of grounds justifying the second applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 14 march 2012 the trial court convicted the applicants as charged. it included a link to the statement of facts and the court’s questions sent to the parties. however it was not acceptable to ramkovski. he has decided to wait for the court in strasbourg to find violations in his case with a judgment – confirmed for birn a member of ramkovski’s legal defence team who is representing him before the domestic courts.
he was subsequently convicted of criminal offences on several occasions. he was released on 3 december 2014 after serving his most recent prison sentence. on 2 december 2014 the russian ministry of justice issued an exclusion order, declaring the applicant’s presence in russia undesirable and prohibiting his return to russia until 2020. on 14 december 2015 the applicant was accused of an offence under article 18.8 § 3 of the code of administrative offences (cao) on account of his presence in russia without the necessary documents. the judgment was amenable to appeal within ten days of receipt by the defendant. on 22 july 2016 the district court dismissed an application from the applicant to terminate the proceedings to enforce the judgment of 15 december 2015. on 22 june 2017 the district court ordered his release. the cells were equipped with bedside boards and beds but there were no chairs, tables or other furniture. 304, measuring eight square metres, where he was kept alone. from late september 2016 to 17 january 2017 he shared cell no. the toilets in the cells were separated from the main area by a fixed partition. they noted that the toilets (consisting of a “hole”) in the cells on the fourth floor were separated from the main area by a low partition or curtain and that it was not possible to switch the lights on or off from inside the cells. they also noted that the detention centre had no courtyard for detainees. 403, which measured 27.4 square metres (not eighteen as submitted by the applicant). the main lights were switched off at night.
the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables. on the dates indicated in the appended tables the applicants obtained monetary court awards against the municipal unitary enterprise passenger transport company of kotlas (mup kotlas passazhirskoye avtotransportnoye predpriyatiye – муниципальное предприятие муниципального образования котлас «пассажирское автотранспортное предприятие»). some of the judgments in the applicants’ favour have been partly enforced during the insolvency proceedings in respect of the company (see paragraphs 7-10 below), while others remained unenforced to date. the company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise. it was set up by the municipality of kotlas. the company provided transport services in the town. it had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it. as submitted by the applicants, the prices for the transport services in the town of kotlas were regulated by the administration of arkhangelsk region. on 28 september 2007 insolvency proceedings started in respect of the company. on 18 september 2012 the company was declared insolvent and subsequently liquidated.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in pogradec. in his application form, the applicant submitted that he had sustained injuries as a result of the police intervention, and that on the way to the police station he had been insulted, threatened and ill-treated by rrf police officers. the report further stated that the applicant had sustained an injury to the back of his head. the escort record (formulari i raportit të shoqërimit) in respect of the applicant, which bore the date 6 august 2012 and the time 8.10 p.m., stated that “he was bleeding from the back of his head and physically and verbally resisted the police officers.” ’s view, the actions of the police officers had been lawful (see also paragraph 31 below). had been unable to question the rrf officers, as they had left for tirana on the morning of 7 august 2012. ... despite my statements, and without enquiring about the situation, they took me by force and used psychological pressure [by threatening me with] the rubber truncheon as i was taken to the local police station. the judicial police officer, in support of the criminal complaint. on 10 september 2012 the district prosecutor requested that video footage be provided by a nearby bank whose security cameras were believed to have registered images of the events of 6 august 2012. gave another statement and stated that he had been hit on his back by the applicant. who had made a telephone call to the applicant for help. the applicant had subsequently been released. he runs a private business close to the site. despite his own statements, the statements given by a.s., as regards the criminal complaint that physical violence was used by the rrf officers when petri was taken to the police station, i consider that doubts arise as to whether the offence of abuse of power as provided for by article 248 of the cc has been committed.
the applicants were born in 1954, 1952, 1964, 1926, 1952, 1960 and 1956 respectively and live in donetsk. from the beginning of april 2014 armed groups started to seize official buildings in the donetsk and luhansk regions and announced the creation of self-proclaimed entities known as the “donetsk people’s republic” and “luhansk people’s republic” (the “dpr” and “lpr”). in june 2014 the armed groups started to seize offices of the national bank of ukraine and other regional financial institutions in the donetsk and luhansk regions. on 6 august 2014 the national bank of ukraine suspended all financial transactions on the territories outside the control of the government (see paragraph 20 below). government forces recaptured some territories in the donetsk and luhansk regions, but certain parts of the regions have remained outside the government’s control since that time. on 2 september 2014, following changes in the law, jurisdiction of the courts in the non-controlled areas was transferred to the relevant courts in the neighbouring regions on the territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 34 to 36 below). on 11 november 2014 all social benefit payments in the settlements of the donetsk and luhansk regions that were outside the control of the government were suspended (see paragraph 26 below) 14. in december 2014 the donetsk regional administrative court and the donetsk regional administrative court of appeal were relocated to the cities of sloviansk and kramatorsk, territory controlled by the government (see paragraphs 37 and 38 below). the applicants were registered as recipients of social benefits with different departments of the pension fund of ukraine in donetsk. some applicants had been receiving their social benefits until 30 june 2014, others until 31 august 2014. on the same day their social benefits was reinstated, including social benefits due to them for the period 1 july 2014 to 16 june 2015. the sixth applicant was registered with the labour and social security department of the obolonskiy district in kyiv on 9 september 2015. however, she did not apply for reinstatement of her social benefits. the other applicants did not apply to the relevant social authorities on the territory controlled by the government for reinstatement of their social benefits. according to the government, the sixth and seventh applicants travelled from donetsk to the territory controlled by the government after their social benefits had been suspended.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in kiev, ukraine. in july 2006 he had volunteered to cover the g8 summit, which was being held in the st petersburg region, for libertarian information and news collective (linc), disseminating press-releases and information on the internet about protests, connecting journalists and protesters, and providing coverage about the issues raised by activists. he was not wearing any distinctive clothing or insignia to designate him as a journalist. one of the police officers spotted him taking pictures and ordered him to switch off the camera. according to the applicant, he complied and no further order was given to him; he did not show any resistance to the police. despite several warnings, he refused, grabbed their uniforms, behaved defiantly and shouted. he was then taken to the police vehicle by force. apparently, the applicant managed to contact a lawyer. at around that time, the applicant was allowed access to the administrative-offence record. despite repeated and lawful orders to cease unlawful actions, [the applicant] refused. several hours later, a new administrative-offence record was compiled by officer d. the applicant read and signed it at around 7 p.m. according to the record, the applicant was arrested because he had “disobeyed a lawful order from a police officer”. if i did so unknowingly, i am sorry about that. on the same day i was sentenced to three days’ detention. on 18 july 2006 the applicant was visited by an official from the ukrainian consulate and signed a document authorising the consul to represent him on appeal. referring to a logbook of detainees (a copy of the relevant extract from which has not been submitted to this court), the government submitted that the applicant had been released at 10 a.m. on 18 july 2006.
on 28 february 1996 the applicants and the debtor (jsp “tara” cetinje) reached a court approved settlement before the cetinje municipal court, whereby the debtor undertook to pay the applicants specified amounts in respect of pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage. the settlement became final on the same date. the debtor ultimately paid part of the amounts determined in the settlement. on 26 may 1997 the podgorica commercial court opened insolvency proceedings against the debtor. on 19 august 1997 the applicants submitted their respective claims based on the settlement. in the course of the insolvency proceedings the podgorica commercial court acknowledged the applicants’ claims. on 23 december 2009 the podgorica commercial court terminated (zaključio) the insolvency proceedings against the debtor, but continued the proceedings against the debtor’s estate. this decision was upheld by the appellate court on 9 april 2010. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court dismissed the applicants’ constitutional appeal on procedural grounds. the court settlement in question remains partly unenforced to the present day. it transpires from the case file that at the time the court settlement was concluded and became final (see paragraphs 4 and 5 above) the debtor was a company predominantly comprised of state‑controlled capital. the government neither contested this nor provided any evidence to the contrary.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in tver. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 7 may 2009 the applicant and his classmate a. were arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily injuries to a boy from their school. the applicant was initially released under parental supervision, whilst a. was remanded in custody. the following day they retracted their confessions. on 16 november 2009, after the investigator had reclassified their actions as a more serious offence, the zavolzhskiy district court in tver ordered the applicant’s placement in custody, citing the gravity of the charges and the fact that he had recanted. in the court’s opinion, that implied that the applicant might interfere with justice if released. on 3 february 2010 the regional court upheld the district court’s assessment on appeal, in particular its finding that a non-custodial measure would not be sufficient to secure the enforcement of the conviction. however, the investigation considers that mr v. smirnov is using all means to interfere with the criminal proceedings because of his vested interests; he has not responded when summonsed by the investigator or court, and is causing all kinds of delays in the proceedings. on 25 january 2010 the supervising prosecutor rejected a complaint from the applicant’s father about the investigator’s decision, recalling that the granting of leave to visit a detainee was at the investigator’s discretion rather than being a legal obligation and that the arguments for refusing leave were “persuasive and well-justified”. on 19 february 2010 the regional court upheld the order on appeal. the final extension order of 11 march 2010 referred to the gravity of the charges against both co-defendants, without distinguishing between their individual situations. on 9 june 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the conviction. between november 2009 and july 2010 the applicant’s parents visited him in prison a total of sixteen times. all visits were carried out under the supervision of a warden while the applicant was separated from his parents by a glass partition.
the applicants were born in 1987 and 1986 and live in gümüşhane and erzincan respectively. on 18 may 2007 the applicants participated in reading out a press statement in commemoration of i̇brahim kaypakkaya, the leader of the tkp/ml[1] (turkish communist party – marxist/leninist), who had died in 1973, allegedly under torture in police custody. on 7 january 2008 the erzurum public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against fifteen people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. according to the indictment, during the gathering, the second applicant had read out a press declaration containing statements praising the tkp/ml and i̇brahim kaypakkaya, and the following slogans had been chanted by the demonstrators: “i̇brahim is our leader”, “our struggle continues and shall continue”, “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal”, “down with the usa” and “we will drown fascism in the blood it has shed”. the group had also carried a banner which read “i̇brahim kaypakkaya is immortal – partizan”[2]. on 31 march 2009 the erzurum assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced each of them to ten months’ imprisonment pursuant to section 7(2) of law no. in its judgment, the assize court held that the applicants had disseminated propaganda in favour of the tkp/ml, given that the second applicant had read out the press statement and the first applicant had chanted slogans. the court based its judgment on a report prepared by an expert regarding a police video-recording of the public gathering in question. taking into account the applicants’ good behaviour during the trial and the fact that they had no previous criminal convictions, the court suspended pronouncement of the applicants’ conviction on the condition that they did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, under article 231 of the code of criminal procedure (hükmün açıklanmasının geri bırakılması). the applicants filed an objection against the decision of 31 march 2009. in their petition, they stated that the first-instance court had erred in interpreting the facts and the law, and they asked to be acquitted of the charges against them. they further stated that their prosecution had constituted a breach of article 10 of the convention. on 20 july 2009 the diyarbakır assize court held that the application of article 231 of the code of criminal procedure in the case was in line with the domestic law, and rejected the applicants’ objection without examining the merits of the case. that decision was served on the applicants on 5 august 2009.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in krasnodar. according to the applicant’s submissions, he also prepared various texts for publication in print and internet media outlets on an occasional basis. the laptop was his own property, however, he also used it for professional purposes. the applicant and d. were examined by officer k. in his report to his superior, drawn up at 10.40 a.m. on 27 august 2009, he stated that in view of the applicant’s answers to questions and because of his behaviour, neither of which have been specified to the court, there was a need to verify the information contained in the applicant’s customs declaration by way of an “inspection procedure” (see paragraph 31 below) in respect of the items in his bag and backpack and to “apply the measure for minimising risk as per profile no. according to the government, after finding in the directory of the laptop an electronic folder entitled “extremism (for rr[1])”, which contained a number of photographs, the customs officer decided to copy it and some other folders from the laptop for further examination by an expert, who could determine whether they contained any information of an extremist nature. the folder contained seven subfolders and 180 files. it can be seen from the record of the sampling that thirty-four folders (containing some 480 subfolders with over 16,300 electronic files) were copied. according to the government, the information was then deleted from the external hard drive. the original data in the laptop was not deleted and remained intact. apparently, it concluded that the data contained no extremist material. by a judgment of 25 january 2010 the prikubanskiy district court of krasnodar dismissed his claims. according to the applicant, the customs authority representative had refused at the hearing to explain the specific content of the risk profile concerning the applicant, referring to the fact that the information in question was classified and was for internal use only. this includes laptops, memory flash cards, photo-cameras, video-cameras, printed material and the like. article 14 of the code provides that all such goods should be subject to customs clearance and customs control. article 358 of the code provides that customs checks are based on the principle of selectiveness and, as a rule, should be limited to such forms of control as are sufficient for ensuring compliance with customs legislation ... when selecting the form of control, the risk management approach is applied, which is based on the effective use of resources for preventing violations of the legislation ... risk is defined as a probability of non-compliance with customs legislation.
since 2002, following their ancestors’ demise, the applicants have been the holders of the utile dominium (by way of sub-emphyteusis which expires in 2047) of a portion of land in zabbar, malta. the directum dominus (direct owner) is the state. on the said property there was a shop which was rented out to third parties as a snack bar. m. (including the shop of an area of approximately 50 sq. the government took possession of the entirety of the property mentioned in the declaration and demolished the shop in order to build a local civic centre and service roads (in connection with a development project for the locality). specifically it was decided to reposition the road which had to be built on the part of the land on which the shop had stood. pending the constitutional-redress proceedings (below), on 13 april 2010 the commissioner of land (hereinafter “the commissioner”) extended the lease in favour of the third party until 31 january 2020, at a rent of approximately 2,100 euros (eur) per year. in 2010 the bus terminus was moved as a result of changes in the transport system. on 2 march 2010 the applicants instituted constitutional redress proceedings. pursuant to the ordinance as amended, it was still for the commissioner to make an offer. the same applied concerning their complaint of a lack of public interest despite amendments to the law in 2009 (act xxv of 2009) ‑ which had introduced the possibility of challenging the public interest of an expropriation before the lab, within twenty-one days of the declaration – in the court’s view it was unlikely that an individual would be able to challenge a public interest which had not been mentioned in the declaration. the defendants appealed, arguing that there was a public interest and challenging the award of compensation and the return order. it considered that at the time of the declaration the taking (of the land on which the shop had stood) had been certainly in the public interest, specifically the building of roads giving access to the public. thus, without prejudice to any such claim for pecuniary compensation in respect of the property taken and the relative interest, the constitutional court awarded eur 10,000 in non‑pecuniary damages for the violation suffered, bearing in mind that the value of the property was eur 13,000, and it annulled the return order for the property. as the applicants refused to collect the award made by the constitutional court, in january 2014 the commissioner deposited the award in court by means of a schedule of deposit.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in gebze. following the search, he went through a medical examination. on 21 august 2002 at 1.30 p.m. another report was issued in respect of the applicant, indicating that there were no traces of ill-treatment on him. several members of the applicant’s family were also questioned the same day. on 26 august 2002 the applicant turned eighteen years of age. on 20 september 2002 the applicant was questioned by the police once again. subsequently, the applicant, other members of his family and his friend a.s. he went on to describe in detail how he had disposed of the body and showed the police the pushcart he had used to that effect. he was subsequently placed in detention on remand. he requested that the appointed lawyer who had been present during his questioning by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge be heard as a witness. during the course of the thirteen hearings before it, the assize court obtained a report from the istanbul forensics institute and heard all the police officers involved in the applicant’s questioning. in his statements before the court, that lawyer submitted that he had first seen the applicant during the interview at the public prosecutor’s office and had suspected that he might have been ill-treated as he had been nervous. the court also heard a number of other witnesses, including his friend a.s., and the bank transcripts which rebutted his defence with regard to the money he had spent after the murder. reiterating his submissions with regard to his alleged ill-treatment, he maintained that he had not been assigned a lawyer while in police custody although he had requested one.
the applicant was born in 1961 and is currently detained in kremikovtsi prison hostel near sofia. on 6 april 2009 he entered sofia prison to serve his sentence. he did not say anything about the conditions of his detention there. according to him, the group was housed in several cabins with cement floors. they were damp and had many of their windows broken and doors shattered. there was no canteen or dedicated eating space, and no cutlery. on 28 october 2010 the applicant was transferred to group no. he was placed in a cell which he shared with three to four other inmates. according to the government, the applicant had to share a cell with two to three inmates. the door and the windows were in good condition. according to the applicant, material conditions in the cells in which he was placed after 28 october 2010 were significantly better in terms of heating, lighting and hygiene, and were satisfactory. kremikovtsi prison is a closed-type prison hostel attached to sofia prison. according to the same report in 2007 the health-care staff in kremikovtsi prison hostel consisted only of a dentist and a feldsher. according to information provided by the government to the council of europe’s committee of ministers, in december 2013 the official capacity of the prison hostel was 426, whereas the actual number of inmates housed there was 493 (see neshkov and others v. bulgaria, nos. 36925/10 and 5 others, § 143, 27 january 2015).
the first applicant was born in 1956 and lives in cetinje. the second applicant was founded in cetinje in 1990. the first applicant is the founder, the sole owner, and the executive director of the second applicant. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 1 july 2013 an insolvency creditor x (stečajni povjerilac) requested the commercial court (privredni sud) in podgorica to open insolvency proceedings (stečajni postupak) in respect of the second applicant. in the proceedings before the commercial court the second applicant was represented by the first applicant and a lawyer duly authorised by the latter. on 27 december 2013 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the second applicant and, inter alia, appointed an insolvency administrator (stečajni upravnik). on 23 january 2014 the second applicant, through the lawyer, lodged an appeal against the commercial court decision. on 18 march 2014 the court of appeals (apelacioni sud) in podgorica rejected the appeal (žalba se odbacuje) as having been submitted by an unauthorised person, given that the lawyer had not been appointed by the insolvency administrator. the court relied on sections 75 and 76 of the insolvency act (see paragraphs 17-18 below). this decision was served on the applicants on 17 april 2014. on 12 may 2014 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 13 may 2014 the applicants’ representative filed an initiative with the constitutional court (ustavni sud) seeking the assessment of the constitutionality of section 76 of the insolvency act in force at the time. there is nothing in the case-file as to the outcome of that initiative. on 23 july 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ constitutional appeal for “not having been lodged by a party to the domestic proceedings or by a person authorised to appeal on behalf of the person whose rights and freedoms were violated”.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in moscow. the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 24 november 2006 the applicant, the owner and ceo of a large dairy producer, was charged with large-scale fraud and money laundering and summoned for questioning. the detention hearing was fixed for 1 february 2007. the district court appointed legal-aid counsel to represent the absent applicant, proceeded with the hearing and issued the detention order, referring to the fact of the applicant’s absconding to ukraine and from there to hungary, the gravity of the charges against him and the risk of interference with the investigation. on 9 february 2007 the applicant’s lawyers appealed. on 15 february 2007 the applicant was arrested in moscow. it took the appeal courts between twenty-six and sixty days to examine the complaints. the investigation had been pending for over two years of which the applicant had spent more than a year and a half in custody. while in custody, the applicant asked the investigator to be allowed to receive visits from his mother, wife and children and also pastoral visits from two orthodox priests, a. and s. 15. as to the orthodox priests, on 29 march 2007 the investigator invoked the same ground to refuse a visit from s. on 30 august 2007 the investigator once again refused a pastoral visit, stating that the applicant should see the prison chaplain instead. counsel for the applicant applied for a judicial review of visiting restrictions. her application was referred to the investigator. on 24 january 2008 ms kostromina lodged a complaint with the preobrazhenskiy district court claiming that the prison director should have authorised her visit without any restrictions, on the basis of article 34 of the convention guaranteeing unhindered access of an applicant to his representative. on 6 may 2008 the moscow city court upheld that decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in moscow. on 25 april 2014 the applicant was examined jointly by the attending psychiatrist and the head of one of the hospital’s departments. during this period he has had mood swings, has been anxious, irritable, [and had] difficulties in focusing his attention. after his discharge his condition improved. he started meeting him, talking to him, tried to ‘have physical contact’, touched his hand, fondled it. transferred to [the police station] where he was examined by a psychiatrist on duty, subsequently involuntarily admitted [to the psychiatric hospital] ... during his examination in the reception ward he signed [a document consenting] to treatment ...psychiatric state: self-aware. states that he feels uncontrollable attraction to boys, to be liked by them, to have contact with them. for a long time has been visiting the neighbourhood where he met the boy; previously he had been going to other neighbourhoods to watch boys. on the same day the hospital applied for judicial authorisation of the applicant’s involuntary hospitalisation under section 29(a) and (c) of the psychiatric assistance act 1992, since the applicant was a danger to himself or others and there was a risk of significant damage to his health owing to the deterioration or aggravation of his psychiatric condition in the absence of psychiatric assistance. in her opinion, in-patient treatment was necessary. i want to finish my studies]; i have only two months left and i do not want to be in hospital. on 20 may 2014 the applicant was discharged from the hospital after an improvement in his mental state. however during the last year the condition re-appeared. [according to the medical evidence] on 25 april 2014 [the applicant] was lethargic, sluggish, and had a subdued mood, which he attributed to his inability to meet up with a boy he is attracted to. in this state he had been travelling long distances, presenting a danger to himself and others ...the evidence [submitted to the first-instance court] substantiating the need for involuntary hospitalisation – including information on previous treatment for his delusional disorder and somatic condition (a second-degree disability) – constituted legal grounds for involuntary hospitalisation.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in galashki, ingushetia republic. they also threatened to kill s., should the applicant decide to leave him. the applicant had to live with s.’s family as his wife. the marriage was not officially registered. she did not feel well and complained about dizziness, numbing of the lower jaw and difficulty to breathe. according to the applicant’s mother, the applicant told her once that her mother-in-law did not let her see s. and claimed that the applicant would not last living with them longer than two months. the doctor diagnosed her with renal colic. she was diagnosed with stress and overdose of sedatives and placed in an intensive care unit. she has not regained consciousness since then. on 23 september 2010 the applicant’s mother complained to the local police department and prosecutor’s office that the applicant had been forcefully held by s.’s family in inhuman conditions which led to deterioration of her health and coma. she also stated that the applicant had been repeatedly beaten up and deprived of her liberty. on 24 november 2011 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings against s.’s family. on 29 july 2012 the supervising prosecutor quashed the decision of 24 november 2011 and ordered further inquiry into the matter. on 3 august 2012 the investigator refused to institute criminal proceedings on the charges of attempted murder. the court noted that the inquiry had been incomplete.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in kaišiadorys. asked the applicant what he should do in order to obtain release on probation. the applicant also stated that the cost for the same thing in the kaunas regional court would be approximately ltl 10,000 (approximately eur 2,896) but that that was not the final amount. had around ltl 35,000 (approximately eur 10,137). the conversation went as follows:“the applicant: ‘ ...you understand that the intermediary who will go will also need some, and..’...the applicant: ‘you know, salaries there are [ltl] 7,000, so you know...’the applicant: ‘as with [d], when he brought, looked, he went there with those pennies, [they] said no, and he did not have any more...’ v.š.: ‘ did not tell anyone about the agreement and v.š. to perform actions which imitated criminal conduct for two months, until 31 march 2011. again called the applicant later that day and asked whether he should bring the medical certificate to the meeting and the applicant said that he was already in the correctional facility. called the applicant and informed him that the kaišiadorys district court had decided not to release him on probation. called the applicant the same day and asked how matters were proceeding with their client. on 19 october 2011 the vilnius city third district court approved an application by v.š. reikėjo, tad nieko nereiškiančiais pokalbiais jis tik siekė parodyti, kad dirba, tačiau tuo jis nesiekė sukelti jokių pasekmių, kadangi negalėjo paveikti nei l.[d.], the court held that the transcripts of the conversations between the applicant and v.š. showed that the applicant had been the first to indicate the amounts of money to be paid. on the basis of the audio-recordings, the court also observed that the applicant had been the first to say that he could settle the matter for money.
the applicant company is a limited liability company and is the owner of the greek television channel alpha. on 24 january 2002, alpha broadcast a television show named “jungle” (ζούγκλα) in which three videos that had been filmed with a hidden camera were broadcast. the second video showed a meeting between a.c. they furthermore stressed that nobody would ever forbid journalists to report on a certain issue; however the means used raised an issue, as the use of hidden camera could be accepted only in respect of a national security issue or for the prevention of a serious crime or other similar situations. by its decision 214/162/23.05.2002, the national radio and television council ordered the applicant company to pay one hundred thousand (100,000) euros (eur) for each of the two television shows during which the above-mentioned videos were shown, as well as to broadcast on three days in a row on its main news show the content of that decision. on 4 april 2003 the applicant company lodged an application for annulment (αίτηση ακύρωσης) against the decisions of the national radio and television council and the minister of press and media with the supreme administrative court (συμβούλιο της επικρατείας) on the grounds that the above-mentioned decision had violated articles 9, 15 § 1 and 25 of the greek constitution, as well as article 10 of the convention. on 23 january 2006 the president of the supreme administrative court referred the case to the plenary supreme administrative court owing to its high importance. 42409/98, 21 february 2002; and sciacca v. italy, no. nevertheless, in certain cases it may be considered justified to broadcast such news, on account of its contribution to a debate of general interest and taking into account the secretly recorded person’s position or standing. however, even when broadcasting of the news is considered a legitimate exercise of the right to impart information, this does not automatically render legitimate the broadcasting of the relevant, secretly recorded images, as that constitutes a much more intense [έντονος] limitation of the constitutionally protected right of that person to his own image than the simple transmission of news. as far as the broadcasting of the images was concerned, the applicant company had not disputed that the images had been recorded by secret means and had not claimed that broadcasting of the news was absolutely impossible or extremely difficult without broadcasting the relevant images. in addition, there were two dissenting opinions. therefore, the application for annulment should have been allowed, given that the national radio and television council’s decision had been based solely on the fact that the image of a.c. in particular, public figures, such as politicians, were exposed to publicity and sometimes they even pursued it. as a result, there was a legitimate expectation on the part of the media and of the public to impart and receive information regarding their public activities.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in louvencourt. the employee in question had then filed a complaint against him, following which the applicant had been charged with making false accusations. he received a reply inviting him to consider appointment to another post, but maintained his original request. on the day of his reinstatement, on 17 march 2008, the applicant found that his work computer had been seized. it can be seen from the judgment of the amiens court of appeal of 15 december 2010 (see paragraphs 14-15 below) that the person who had replaced the applicant during his suspension from post had found “documents which had caught his attention” on the computer, and that he had alerted his superiors in march 2007 and january 2008. a request for a written explanation was sent to the applicant on 7 may 2008. the applicant was summoned to a disciplinary hearing, which took place on 21 may 2008. on 17 july 2008 the sncf regional director decided to dismiss the applicant from the service. his decision was worded as follows:“ ... the analysis of the files stored on the hard disk of [the applicant’s] work computer, used for his professional duties, contained the following:i) change of address certificate, signed in his name, certifying the transfer on 01/11/2003 of ms catherine [t.] to the lille general security service; the original certificate, sent to icf north-east enabled the notice period for vacating her flat to be shortened;ii) change of address certificate, bearing the ministry of justice logo, in the name of m. [s.-j.], an employee cannot use an entire hard disk, which is supposed to record professional data, for his or her private use. the term can denote exchanges between colleagues at work or work documents kept as “bloopers” by the employee. the employer also rightly pointed out that the user’s charter provided that “private information [had to] be clearly identified as such (“private” option in the outlook criteria)” and that the same was true of the media receiving that information (“private” folder). in the court’s view, those acts had been particularly serious because, as an official responsible for general surveillance, he would have been expected to be of exemplary conduct. the social division of the court of cassation dismissed the appeal in a judgment of 4 july 2012. it held as follows:“ ... whilst files created by an employee with the assistance of the computer facilities supplied to him by his employer for work purposes are presumed to be professional in nature, meaning that the employer is entitled to open them in the employee’s absence, unless they are identified as personal, the description given to the hard disk itself cannot confer privacy on all the data contained in it.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in bijela, montenegro. on 1 march 2012 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the applicant and ordered the applicant’s employer “vektra boka” ad herceg novi (hereinafter “the debtor”) to carry out a re‑allocation of plots for the construction of apartments. this judgment became final on 21 december 2012. on 15 january 2013 the applicant requested enforcement of the above judgment and the herceg novi first instance court issued an enforcement order on 31 january 2013. on 28 january 2016 the herceg novi first instance court transferred the case to the commercial court for further action. the judgement in question remains unenforced to the present day. on 8 february 2013 the applicant instituted administrative proceedings seeking, on the basis of the above judgment, the removal of competing titles from the land register. on 29 july 2015 the real estate directorate terminated (prekinuo) the administrative proceedings because the commercial court had commenced insolvency proceeding in respect of the debtor. on 7 september 2015 the applicant submitted an objection against the above decision. this objection was rejected as being out of time by the real estate directorate on 5 october 2015. the administrative proceedings are still pending. on an unspecified day in 2003, the applicant instituted separate civil proceedings against the debtor, as his former employer, seeking reinstatement and damages. following three remittals, on 3 march 2014 the herceg novi first instance court rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour. on 22 september 2015 the high court upheld this judgment on the merits, but quashed it as regards the costs. on 22 february 2017 the commercial court ruled partly in favour of the applicant regarding the costs.
the applicant was born in 1932 and lives in siġġiewi. the property was requisitioned in 1955 by means of a requisition order. the government did not refer to the different address, arguing as though the valuation referred to the property at issue in the present case. moreover, in their view the property was in a good state of repair and the alterations had increased its value. they also requested compensation for the damage allegedly sustained. in a judgment of 9 october 1991 the civil court (first hall) in its ordinary jurisdiction rejected the plaintiffs’ claim. the owners appealed against that decision. it held that the requisition for the purposes of assigning the property to the band club could not be considered to be in the public interest. in a judgment of 31 may 2005 the court of appeal rejected a request for a new trial submitted by the band club. this judgment was upheld by the court of appeal on 27 february 2009. in determining the amount of compensation, the court did not take into account the fact that the applicant or her ancestors had received rent, given that the amount was derisory. bearing in mind the values established by the applicant’s expert as to the rental value and sale value of the property, which was mtl 180,000 (approximately eur 420,000) (pg.12 of the judgment), as well as the length of time the requisition was and remained in place, the court awarded the applicant eur 60,000 in compensation (kumpens) for the requisition of the premises and the violations found, noting it was not awarding civil damages (danni ċivili) in this context. three quarters of the amount was to be paid by the director of social housing and one quarter by the band club. the attorney general and the director of social accommodation also appealed, in particular in relation to the findings of a lack of public interest, a violation of article 14 and the redress awarded. furthermore, the applicant had received the rent paid by the department and had only instituted constitutional proceedings in 2007 (while never contesting the validity of the requisition), thus it was legitimate and in line with local case-law to reduce her compensation.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bucharest. partidul verde had put up candidates for the 2008 general elections but failed to win any seats. 35/2008 on elections to the chamber of deputies and the senate, amending law no. 67/2004 on local authority elections, law no. parliamentary by-elections were scheduled for 17 january 2010 in order to fill a vacant seat in a bucharest constituency. according to information available to the court, that seat had fallen vacant in october 2009. it entered an objection of unconstitutionality under section 48 (17) of law no. it alleged in particular that the ban on candidates from parties not represented in parliament and independent candidates infringed the right to free elections and amounted to unjustified discrimination as compared with parties represented in parliament. the party added that, contrary to the recommendations of the european commission for democracy through law (“the venice commission”; see paragraphs 20 and 21 below), law no. 35/2008 had been amended less than one year before the by-elections. 61/2010 of 14 january 2010, the constitutional court dismissed the objection of unconstitutionality. to allow candidates to stand in by-elections for political parties which are not represented in parliament would alter the latter’s political structure, [which is] incompatible with the votes cast by the electorate during the general elections which led to the constitution of the romanian people’s supreme representative body, with a specific political make-up, which can only be modified in the cases and conditions determined by law. as regards the plea based on the recommendations of the venice commission, the constitutional court assessed it “with reservations”. by judgment of 30 march 2010 the county court dismissed the party’s challenge, referring to the reasoning of the constitutional court in its aforementioned decision of 14 january 2010, to the effect that since partidul verde had failed to pass the electoral threshold in the general elections it could not put up candidates for the by-elections. thus the electoral threshold means that political parties must be representative, to some extent, of the electorate, as required by the sovereignty principle.
on 25 april 1999 the applicant was arrested and placed in police custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen persons. on the same day, she underwent a medical examination. the doctor who examined the applicant noted no sign of injury on her body. the applicant confessed that she was a member of the illegal organisation and admitted having planned an attack on a shopping centre and having acted as a lookout while other co-accused started a fire by throwing molotov cocktails at the shopping centre, killing thirteen persons in march 1999. on 27 april 1999 the applicant was required to confront with two other co-accused before the police, in the absence of a lawyer. according to the record of the confrontation she admitted having carried out the attack on the shopping centre with those two and another co-accused. on the same day an identification parade took place at the istanbul security directorate, in the absence of a lawyer, where one of the eyewitnesses of the incident identified the applicant in front of police officers and the public prosecutor at the state security court. on the same day the applicant was also required to participate in a reconstruction of the events (yer gösterme). on 30 april 1999 the applicant was seen by a doctor at the forensic medicine institution who noted in his report that the applicant bore no traces of ill-treatment. on the same day, the applicant was heard by the istanbul public prosecutor and by the investigating judge, still in the absence of a lawyer. subsequently, the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s detention on remand. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 7 may 2007 relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced her to life imprisonment for membership of an illegal organisation and the murder of thirteen people. on 7 may 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in muş. on 19 april 2003 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 20 april 2003 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during the interrogation, the applicant gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party). on 22 april 2003 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress. on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 6 may 2003 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code, law no. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 19 september 2006, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. on 19 november 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds. on 30 december 2008 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant again under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. on 20 march 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
she grew up in šiauliai, which in 2003, the time relevant in this case, had about 130,000 inhabitants. she suddenly felt exhausted and asked her superior (viršininkė) for some time off. who was also a head of division at that hospital, and doctor a.g. the applicant “was gradually adopting a critical attitude towards psychotic behaviour and also about ways to spend her free time. today b. has agreed to talk because what has happened is completely unexpected. even at the time of writing there had been resistance and mockery from her family when the applicant had shared her new interests, such as yoga or meditation. however, the court found that as of 8 may 2003 she had no longer been in need of medical support. in that context, the court also had regard to the applicant’s explanation that because of the side effects of the medication (sleepiness, inability to concentrate) and the possibility of physical restraint (being tied down) in case of disobedience, she had not been able to express her disagreement about being treated at the hospital in writing. (b)  as to the applicant’s right to privacy 33. had, without obtaining the applicant’s consent to disclose confidential information, revealed to the srovės journalists that the applicant had been diagnosed with acute psychosis (ūminė psichozė), that she was being treated at vilnius psychiatric hospital, and that she had studied in the united states”. that conclusion was based on the applicant’s medical file, which contained the following records for 26 may and 20 and 23 june 2003: “ ... absence of a critical attitude towards attending [the ojas meditation] centre”; “during psycho-correction expressed opinion in categorical terms about attending the ojas centre, argues, that ‘it is a personal matter’”; “when efforts were made during psycho-correction to get the applicant to form a critical attitude (suformuoti kritiką) towards non-traditional religious beliefs, [the applicant] for a long time remained uncritical and also categorical”. under that procedure, it had been possible to place the applicant in hospital and treat her without her consent for no longer than forty-eight hours. the court of appeal considered that the fact that the main character of the programme (laidos herojė) had studied in the united states was not sufficient to establish that the programme was about the applicant. on 17 june 2009 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law. by a ruling of 19 june 2009 the supreme court refused to admit the appeal for examination, holding that the applicant’s arguments were not sufficient to merit examination.
the applicant, a syrian national, was born in 1993 and currently resides in khartoum, sudan. on 24 april 2015 the applicant arrived in russia, being in possession of a study visa. he enrolled in the izhevsk state technical university and had his registered residence in the town of izhevsk. on 4 may 2016 the applicant applied for refugee status alleging the risks to his life and safety in the light of the on-going conflict in syria. the request and the subsequent appeals were dismissed by the russian migration authorities and the courts. on 8 june 2016 the applicant was arrested and put in detention by the migration authorities. by a judgment of 9 june 2016 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk found the applicant in breach of migration rules, an offence under article 18.8 § 1.1 of the code of administrative offences, and ordered his expulsion. in order to facilitate enforcement, the court ordered that the applicant be placed in detention. on 10 june 2016 the supreme court of the udmurtiya republic upheld the lower court’s judgment. on 22 june 2016 the court indicated to the respondent government, under rule 39 of the rules of court, that the applicant should not be extradited, expelled or otherwise involuntarily removed from russia to syria for the duration of the proceedings before the court. since that date the enforcement of the applicant’s expulsion was monthly postponed by the domestic courts. on 13 january 2017 the supreme court of the russian federation on appeal amended the lower courts’ judgments and excluded administrative removal from the sanction, since it would have exposed the applicant’s life to risk in syria. on 20 january 2017 the applicant left russia for lebanon.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is detained in tekirdağ. the applicant admitted in his statement that he was a member of the organisation in question and gave information about a number of activities in which he had participated, including armed activities. the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation in question, that he had joined them in a rural area, and that he had afterwards tried to collect money for the organisation in istanbul. however, he withdrew the statements he had made to the police, maintaining that he had not participated in any other activity for the illegal organisation. on the same day the applicant was questioned by the investigating judge, once again in the absence of a lawyer. the investigating judge ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention. on 19 march 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, charging the applicant under article 125 of the former turkish criminal code with membership of an illegal organisation and involvement in separatist activities against the republic of turkey. at a hearing held on 1 september 2000, the applicant gave evidence in person and denied all the charges. he stated that he had given his previous statements under duress. at a hearing held on 14 november 2001 the applicant stated that he was a member of the illegal organisation, but had carried out only political activities for the organisation and not armed activities. on 16 september 2004 istanbul assize court held that the applicant had committed an offence under article 125 of the former criminal code and sentenced him to life imprisonment. the court based its decision, inter alia, on the applicant’s statements to the police, the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, and other witness statements taken by the police and the public prosecutor. a number of hearings took place during the trial. his request to examine that witness was rejected. on 9 october 2007 the court of cassation upheld the decision of 1 february 2007.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in the altay region. on 22 june, 12 july and 20 december 2004 he attempted suicide by opening his veins. since that time he had been examined by the prison psychiatrist at regular intervals. on 5 may 2005 the applicant was examined by the prison doctor on duty who found that his state of health permitted his placement in a punishment cell, provided that he was not held in solitary confinement. he was left alone in the cell, but the door was kept open. on the same day the applicant went on a hunger strike in protest against his placement in solitary confinement. he reiterated the recommendation that given the applicant’s mental condition solitary confinement was contraindicated. after the doctor left, the door of the applicant’s cell was shut. about an hour later the applicant had a panic attack and attempted to open his veins with his teeth. on 15 december 2005 a deputy prosecutor of barnaul refused to open criminal proceedings. he referred to statements by a warder, mr sh., it follows from the letter of 16 december 2005 from the prosecutor of barnaul that the prosecutor’s office had found that the applicant had been lawfully placed in a punishment cell. liu-8 had been warned against “permitting similar incidents to occur in future”. following to further complaints by the applicant, in which he stated in particular that he had never asked the warders to close the door, the prosecutor of barnaul conducted an additional inquiry. he found that the warders had acted in compliance with the internal regulations and had had no intention of provoking the applicant to self-injury.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in belovo, kemerovo region. following the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of drug trafficking, on 14 november 2008 he was placed in temporary detention facility no. he remained in that facility until 20 april 2010. each cell measured approximately twenty metres and housed, for the major part of his stay, between 10 and 14 inmates. in the majority of the cells the toilet was merely a hole in the floor. a lavatory pan was installed in three cells, in the corner, and was separated from the living area by a 1.5-metre fence. the applicant was afforded an hour-long walk daily in the recreation yard. according to the government the applicant was provided with an individual sleeping place, except for the detention period between 18 november and 2 december 2008. there was artificial lighting, natural and artificial ventilation in the cells; the cells were heated. on 30 december 2009 the leninskiy district court of tomsk found the applicant guilty of attempted drug trafficking and sentenced him to nine years and six months’ imprisonment. the applicant’s lawyer lodged an appeal and asked to ensure the applicant’s presence at the appeal hearing. on 17 may 2010 the tomsk regional court upheld the conviction, having heard a prosecutor and the applicant’s lawyer. the applicant was not transported to the hearing. on 25 march 2013 the tomsk regional court upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the applicant and his lawyer were present at the hearing.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in istanbul. on 16 june 1999 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of belonging to an illegal organisation, namely hizbullah. on 21 june 1999 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the hizbullah and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation. on 22 june 1999 the applicant was heard by the diyarbakır public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations and maintained that his statements to the police had been given under duress. on the same date, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 30 june 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 § 2 of the former turkish criminal code, namely for membership of an illegal armed organisation. on 9 november 1999 the applicant was released pending trial. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 12 june 2008, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. in convicting the applicant, the assize court further took into consideration information on computer hard disks and print-outs, which had been seized in a house belonging to the illegal organisation, as well as the statements of several witnesses who had testified against the applicant. on 4 june 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in vilnius. senasis [l.] ... pasakojo, kaip 1918 metais ... pilies bokšte kėlė vėliavą, ... kaip jiems po to teko nuo bolševikų bėgti į kauną, kaip pakeliui juos areštavo, tardė... (o kiek man žinoma, ir užverbavo).) on 9 august 2006 the prosecutor discontinued the pre-trial investigation. had been prominent politicians and public figures and therefore had to tolerate higher levels of criticism. at the court hearing on 9 december 2009, v.l. in the civil proceedings up until his death. it stated that, in line with the domestic law, in order to uphold the claim, four circumstances had to be established: firstly, that certain statements had been disseminated; secondly, that those statements had concerned the claimant (v.l.) and fourthly, that the statements had been erroneous. had to prove that the first three circumstances had existed, whereas the defendants (the applicant and her brothers) had to prove that the fourth circumstance had not (see paragraph 34 below). accordingly, the court held that those statements should have had a sufficient factual basis. seeking to determine whether the disputed statements had been factually accurate, the vilnius regional court examined the evidence which had been collected in the criminal proceedings (see paragraph 8 above), as well as the sources indicated by v.p. as for the fourth statement (see paragraph 5 above), it considered that allegations of ejecting the pharmacy owners onto the streets and suing them for a wooden bench – an item of movable property of low value – had created the impression of v.l.-ž. as a result, the vilnius regional court upheld one part of v.l. the applicant and her brothers lodged an appeal against the decision of the vilnius regional court, presenting essentially the same arguments as before (see paragraphs 13 and 17 above). lastly the court of appeal dismissed the defendants’ argument that they had been obliged to prove the truthfulness of their father’s memories and subjective opinions.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in kyiv. on the same day the applicant posted the video on the internet on behalf of the st luke brotherhood. we suggest to the outraged representatives of the communist party of ukraine to follow the example of ancient roman vestal virgins and to carry out around-the-clock duty at the ‘eternal flames’, keeping the fire lit manually by wood. there were several complaints to the police that the action on the video had amounted to desecration of the tomb of the unknown soldier and called for criminal prosecution. they submitted that they knew nothing about her involvement in the event in question. they only knew that she had left for western ukraine, without further details. the applicant’s mother had seen her about a week earlier and had received a telephone call from her two days earlier. on 29 march 2011 at 9 p.m. the applicant was arrested at the flat of a certain z. in kyiv. on the same day the investigator once again applied to the pecherskyy court for the applicant’s detention as a preventive measure. it was also considered that she might hinder establishing the truth if at liberty. in so far as the applicant’s lawyer relied on her positive character references from various sources, the court noted that those could not guarantee her compliance with all the procedural requirements. while having noted that the applicant also relied on the letters of personal guarantee from the people’s deputies, the judge did not further comment on them. on 11 april 2011 the kyiv city court of appeal rejected the above appeal. on 17 june 2011 the pecherskyy court held a preparatory hearing, during which it rejected the applicant’s application for release with reference to the seriousness of the charge against her, “the nature and the circumstances of the offence of which she [was] accused”, as well as the fact that she had been declared wanted by the police. d., who was questioned in court, confirmed that account of events.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in muş. on 30 october 2001 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation, namely the pkk (the kurdistan workers’ party). on 1 november 2001 the applicant’s statement was taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. during his interrogation, he confessed being a member of the pkk and gave a detailed account of his acts within the illegal organisation. on 3 november 2001 the applicant was heard by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge at the istanbul state security court, again in the absence of a lawyer. in his statements before both the public prosecutor and the investigating judge, the applicant denied the accusations. on the same day, upon the order of the investigating judge, the applicant was placed in pre-trial detention. on 6 november 2001 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with that court, charging the applicant under article 168 of the former criminal code, with membership of an illegal armed organisation. the state security courts were later abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and the case was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 6 october 2006 the istanbul assize court, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, convicted him of membership of an illegal organisation under article 314 § 2 of the new criminal code and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment. on 15 december 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first‑instance court.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in tiszalök. the applicant declared that he had not been. at the hospital he was examined in the presence of the police officer. the police report filed by a on 19 july 2012 stated that the applicant had not been ill-treated during questioning. he asserted that he had been ill-treated during his interrogation. budapest prison initiated criminal proceedings on charges of forced interrogation. he had fallen against a chair and when he had tried to get up, he had been slapped four or five times in the face. on 24 july 2013 one of the prisoner escort officers, c was questioned, and recalled that the applicant had complained of ill-treatment upon his return to the prison facility, which had surprised him since he had previously asked the applicant whether he had any complaints and had seen no injuries on the applicant’s body. he did not remember either the applicant or the circumstances of his transfer. therefore, in his estimation the applicant could not have shown any visible signs of injury when he was handed back from the interrogation. examining the photos of the applicant, she asserted that the bruises on the applicant’s face would have occurred immediately after an impact and that the applicant could have caused them himself. on 5 december 2013 g, the guard on duty at budapest prison, was questioned as a witness; he could not remember either the applicant or anything else concerning his complaint. h stated that as a general practice detainees were under constant supervision while waiting for medical examinations, whereas i asserted that there were instances where detainees were left alone when placed in so‑called “healthcare waiting rooms”. the central investigation office commissioned a forensic expert opinion. the applicant complained, seeking the continuation of the investigations.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in sestaci. in another letter it was stated that one of those police officers had previously been convicted of similar offences, but had been exempted from serving a sentence and had soon been re-employed by the ministry of internal affairs. the domestic courts found in favour of the applicant’s employer, on the grounds that the applicant had breached his duty of confidentiality by disclosing the letters, and that he had failed to consult other heads of departments before disclosing the letters to the newspaper. on 30 march 2004 the applicant lodged an application with the court. lastly, the court noted that the applicant had acted in good faith and that the most severe sanction possible had been imposed on him. in view of all the considerations, the court came to the conclusion that the interference with the applicant’s right to freedom of expression, in particular his right to impart information, had not been “necessary in a democratic society”, and that there had been a breach of article 10 of the convention. according to the applicant, on 29 may 2008 he had a meeting with the prosecutor general, who asked him to resign from his position. he was told to go home and wait for his employment order. since he had no office, he stayed in the library or in the press office. the government also disputed the above submissions. on 16 june 2008 the applicant was presented with a dismissal order, effective as of 10 june 2008. the dismissal was based on section 14(8) of the public service act. according to the order, the trade unions had consented to his dismissal on 6 june 2008. he presented details about his meeting with the prosecutor general of 29 may 2008 and about his discussion with him (see paragraph 13 above). the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice in which he submitted, inter alia, that the prosecutor general’s office had failed to prove wrong his contentions about its failure to issue him with a badge or an office and to give him tasks.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in zagreb. he was formerly a lawyer practising in zagreb. in the context of the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of a vice-president of the croatian privatisation fund (hrvatski fond za privatizaciju, hereinafter “the fund”), a legal entity established by the state and tasked with carrying out the privatisation of publicly owned property, the authorities intercepted and recorded a number of the applicant’s telephone conversations and messages. the secret surveillance was carried out on the basis of orders issued by an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu). on 16 june 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of corruption involving a number of officials of the fund and other individuals. following his arrest, an investigation was opened in the zagreb county court (see, for further details, matanović, cited above, §§ 15-28). the applicant was indicted ‒ in his capacity as the lawyer acting for the vice-president of the fund ‒ for facilitating the receipt of a bribe of 150,000 euros (eur) for his client and aiding and abetting the abuse of power and authority by him. on 15 may 2009 the zagreb county court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. it examined in detail and dismissed the applicant’s arguments regarding the unlawfulness of secret surveillance orders on the grounds that they had been issued by the relevant investigating judge in accordance with the law. the trial court also provided detailed reasoning why it considered that the available evidence provided a reliable basis for the applicant’s conviction. on 24 and 28 september 2009, the applicant both personally and through a lawyer lodged appeals against the first-instance judgment before the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske). he also extensively challenged the factual findings and conclusions of the first-instance court. on 17 february 2010 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, endorsing the reasoning of the first-instance judgment. he also extensively elaborated on the alleged deficiencies in the lower courts’ factual conclusions. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 23 february 2012.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in simferopol. she is a single mother and has a son who at the time of the accident in question was eight years old. she suffered an open craniocerebral injury and contusion of the brain. as a result, the applicant received the status of a disabled person with the lowest degree of disability (третя група інвалідності). 9724/03) complaining, inter alia, under article 6 § 1 of the convention about the lengthy examination of her case by the domestic courts. the court took into consideration the period after 11 september 1997, when the convention had come into force in respect of ukraine. the length of the proceedings within the court’s competence was nine years and twenty two days. the court, in particular, noted the following:“47. as for the issues that were at stake for the applicant, the court notes that following the traffic accident the applicant was seriously injured and received a disability degree. on 24 december 2007 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea quashed this decision and remitted the case to a first-instance court for fresh examination. on 23 april 2008 the supreme court of ukraine upheld the decision of the court of appeal. on 13 may 2009 the simferopolskiy district court partly found for the applicant. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision stating that she had not been aware about the above-mentioned hearings. on 27 january 2010 the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea rejected the applicant’s appeal. the court noted that the applicant had been duly notified about the date of the hearings.
the applicant was born in nigeria in 1975 and lives in zölling. after leaving the country, he lived in spain from 1994 to 1997, living at first on social security and later working as a day-labourer on several farms. the applicant’s daughter is a german national. from the outset they had, and continue to have, joint custody. on 11 december 2000, the authority of the city of munich issued the applicant a residence permit based on family ties, valid until 1 december 2001. on 3 july 2009 the applicant was released, after having served his entire sentence. after his release, the applicant was granted exceptional leave to remain (duldung) under section 60a of the residence act – according to the information available to the court this was granted most recently in january 2017 and would last until july 2017. the applicant has not lived with his daughter and her mother since his release. the applicant sees his daughter on a regular basis and maintains close contact with her. according to a social worker’s statement, he has become an important contact person for her. the purpose of section 10 § 3 of the residence act was to sanction abuse of the asylum procedure, but an abusive asylum application should not bear negative consequences where the foreigner had a claim, within the meaning of that provision, to a residence permit. the decision was served on the applicant on 22 february 2012. after the authority of the city of munich, on 12 june 2012, had ordered the applicant to present himself to the embassy of nigeria in germany so that a passport for the upcoming expulsion could be issued, the applicant refused to do so and filed an action against this order with the munich administrative court. if the applicant by then still has joint custody with the child’s mother, a residence permit on the grounds of family ties will be issued. in the light of this agreement, the applicant withdrew his action, and the proceedings before the munich administrative court were discontinued.
the applicants alleged, before the domestic courts and before the court, that on 26 august 2002 police detained mr s. selami and took him from gostivar to skopje where he was severely beaten. according to a medical certificate from tetovo medical centre issued on 29 january 2003 on the basis of the available medical evidence, mr s. selami was in a post-operative state (following medical trepanation of his skull and evacuation of the internal brain haemorrhage); parts of his skull and the tough brain membrane had been seriously damaged; he had suffered reduced mobility of all limbs, muscle hypotonia and neck and rib fractures. the remaining accused were acquitted (ослободени од обвинение). they reiterated that on 26 august 2002 mr s. selami had been unlawfully deprived of his liberty; that he had been taken to police stations where he had been beaten and physically ill-treated; and that the police had taken him to skopje hospital where he had undergone head surgery. on 19 september 2002 he had been transferred from the hospital to skopje detention facility in view of his detention on remand. both claims were joined and decided in a single set of proceedings. on the basis of the available medical evidence, the court established that in 1985, while at work in switzerland, mr s. selami had fallen and injured his spine and right leg, which had become dysfunctional. relying on the statements of mr s. selami and the first and fourth applicants, the court established that in august 2002 the police had searched their house. they had asked mr s. selami to come with them to gostivar police station. there, he had been questioned in relation to an incident in which two policemen had been killed. he had denied having any connection to that incident. both mr s. selami and the applicants appealed to the skopje court of appeal. the solicitor general also challenged the judgment. ...... this court established on the basis of medical evidence that in 1989 [mr s. selami] had been certified disabled in switzerland and that he had been receiving disability benefits ever since. the court rejected the applicants’ arguments that the first-instance court had not decided the claim for compensation for damage sustained as a result of mr s. selami’s physical ill-treatment.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in nova kakhovka. in particular she had been involved in litigation with the local municipal utilities company. you have not even once protected my rights or the rights of the individuals i have been representing and helping ... previously i used not to challenge you but lately i have started to do so. in support of what i have said i can refer to the case where you considered my claim against [a prosecutor] and where you delivered a totally illegal judgment, even though there have been decisions of the nova kakhovka court and of the court of appeal concerning the same situation, in which the actions of the prosecutor had been declared unlawful in that the prosecutor should have delivered not only letters in response to my complaints but formal decisions so that i could challenge those decisions. you, by your decision, deprived me of that right. judge [voice rising]: olena oleksandrivna, i am forced to interrupt you because you are making clearly false statements; this is grounds for drawing up a report of contempt of court! so please be balanced; you have just made so many false statements that are insulting the court. applicant: what i said ... [inaudible]judge [voice rising]: please substantiate it, substantiate it with evidence – substantiate it! you prove that you haven’t done all of this! she also alleged that she had not been given access to the case file before the contempt hearing. according to the applicant, the hearing commenced at 10.27 a.m. in the course of the hearing the applicant pleaded not guilty of the administrative offence of contempt of court and made oral submissions in respect of the charge against her. the applicant then spent five days in detention. it described a criminal case concerning a bar brawl in which a person had been killed and a certain g. charged with murder. it put forward a point of view according to which g. was innocent since he had not provoked the brawl but had simply been defending a friend whom the victim had supposedly humiliated. the article reported that g’s conviction by judge m. had again been quashed on appeal and the case remitted for retrial before a different district court and that g.’s relatives had apparently made sure that the case would be under the supervision of the presidential administration and other high state bodies.
the applicant, is a french citizen, who was born in 1969 and lives in gaillard, france. on 18 october 2013 their son, l., was born. the applicant returned to their home on 27 december 2013. lodged a complaint against the applicant in toul. left for hungary with l, without the prior knowledge or authorisation of the applicant. has lived with l. at her parents’ home in szombathely. the budapest high court upheld the first-instance decision on 28 april 2015. the kúria also found it important that according to the applicant’s own statements his sister would take care of l. if the child were returned to france and that, according to the decision of the french courts, k.b.v. on 27 august 2014 the district court discontinued the proceedings, regard being had to the judgments delivered by the french courts. on 5 january 2015 the district court discontinued the proceedings again, finding that k.b.v. lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant and requested that a restriction order be imposed on him. on 30 april 2015, in an interim decision, the district court decided not to recognise the judgments adopted by the thonon-les-bains tribunal de grande instance and the chambery court of appeal, established that it did have jurisdiction in the matter, and temporarily placed l. in his mother’s sole custody. according to the high court, restricting the mother’s contact with l. to two hours every second week would have caused harm to l., especially since the applicant himself had stated that l. would be looked after by his sister. it held that l. needed to have contact with his father and therefore ruled that the applicant could visit him for three hours every second weekend and could contact him via skype every other weekend. l. was placed in a childcare institution.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in stryzhavka. on 12 september 2006 the applicant submitted a written notice to the mayor of vinnytsia informing him that the chumatskyy shlyakh civic youth association (“the association”) registered in vinnytsia, of which he was chairman, intended to hold a picket (пікет) outside the vinnytsia regional authority (“the regional authority”) building. beginning of the picket: 14 september 2005 at 14:00. chairman of the [association] chumak, sergiy viktorovych.” at the time of the relevant events the applicant was older. on 14 september 2006 the association started the picket as intended. and the police officers present at the site of the picket be summoned for questioning; that the police authorities be asked whether any incidents of unlawful conduct by the picketers had been documented; and that the site be inspected in order to determine whether, in fact, the camping tents mounted by the picketers had obstructed the traffic or the passage of pedestrians. the court also noted that the picket “may potentially encroach upon the rights and freedoms of other local residents” and held as follows:“[the court holds] to prohibit [the association] and other persons taking part in the action from organising and carrying out peaceful assemblies in the streets and squares of vinnytsia, [and] from installing small architectural edifices in vinnytsia; ... oblige them to dismantle the small architectural edifices installed in the square in front of the [administration’s] building ...to allow immediate enforcement of the court ruling ...” 14. at 9 p.m. on 15 september 2006 the protesters were dispersed by the police. were not registered as residents at the addresses indicated by them in their complaints lodged with the police. who had given false home addresses and thus could not be identified. the applicant further complained that the court had rejected his request that those individuals be located and summoned, and that the police officers present at the site of the picket also be summoned for questioning concerning the alleged breaches of the law by the protesters. on 22 november 2006 the vinnytsia regional court of appeal examined the applicant’s appeal and decided that, in view of the circumstances of the case (namely, the short notice of the intention to hold a picket and the indefinite period during which the participants planned to continue their demonstration) the administrative action lodged by the executive committee could be accepted for examination. accordingly, the court found that the term “peaceful assemblies” in the operative part of the district court’s judgment had to be substituted with the term “pickets”. on 1 april 2009 the higher administrative court of ukraine dismissed an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in frankfurt am main. he was also married to the co-accused, who, like him, was a national of the russian federation, and he did not have a legal residence or other significant ties to germany. on the same day, he was arrested and the district court ordered his detention on remand. on 19 december 2014 the frankfurt am main prosecution authorities brought criminal proceedings against the applicant, charging him with eight counts of aiding aggravated fraudulent conversion, one count of aiding aggravated corruption and fourteen counts of aiding aggravated tax evasion. on 6 march 2015 he responded to the indictment and asked the court not to open the main proceedings. on 6 may 2015 the regional court decided to open the main proceedings, which commenced on 8 june 2015. on 14 july 2016 the regional court convicted the applicant on five counts each of aiding fraudulent conversion and tax evasion and sentenced him to four years and six months’ imprisonment. it also ordered that the case file be re-submitted to it by 28 october 2014 at the latest for the next periodic review. on 5 september 2014 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court against that decision. 2 bvr 2050/14), a decision which was served on the applicant on 6 october 2014. that had amounted to an arbitrary handling of his case and the judges involved could not decide on the continuation of his detention with the necessary impartiality. the judges gave their statements on 27 november 2014 and 1 december 2014. the applicant then requested additional statements from them, which was not deemed to be necessary by the court of appeal on 11 december 2014. on 10 march 2015 the applicant’s lawyer sent to the court of appeal two comprehensive submissions which he had made in the main proceedings before the regional court and asked the appeal court to take them into account when deciding on the continuation of the applicant’s remand detention. on 21 april 2015 the applicant lodged another constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court, alleging that the absence of a decision by the court of appeal in the pending detention review proceedings had violated his right to liberty and security.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in mārupe. the investigation concluded that the primary cause of the accident was “human error” (cilvēka faktors), namely g.v. on 14 january 2010 the proceedings with regard to g.v. during the investigation, an official of the civil aviation agency testified that in commercial aviation, the question of an operator’s responsibility with regard to the qualifications and rights of a pilot was sufficiently regulated, however this regulation did not apply to general aviation flights. for negligence in the performance of his professional duties (section 197 of the criminal law) and violation of air traffic safety or operation regulations (section 257(2) of the criminal law). on 22 october 2012 the tukums district court found d.k. he had given the aircraft to the pilot knowing that the latter lacked the appropriate authorisation and had permitted him to fly. with regard to negligence in the performance of his professional duties (see paragraph 44 below), the court deemed that neither the indictment nor the first-instance judgment had shown what professional duties in particular d.k. in accordance with section 34 of the law on aviation, a pilot was prohibited from performing his functions in the event that he had not acquired the appropriate qualifications. only subsequent to the accident in question had recommendations been issued to the civil aviation agency on the preparation of statutes relevant to flight safety. on 14 may 2013 the riga regional court, acting as a court of first instance, dismissed the claim in full on the grounds that the defendants had not committed unlawful actions (prettiesiska darbība). had allowed the pilot to operate this aircraft carrying seven passengers. it had been planned that the pilot would operate the aircraft with the flight instructor (see paragraph 33 above). in a judgment of 24 november 2010 in case no. ...”chapter 2.6 aeroplane maintenance 2.6.1 owner’s maintenance responsibilities“2.6.1.1 the owner of an aeroplane, or in case where it is leased, the lessee, shall ensure that, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the state of registry [the state on whose register the aircraft is entered]:a) the aeroplane is maintained in an airworthy condition;b) the operational and emergency equipment necessary for an intended flight is serviceable; andc) the certificate of airworthiness of the aeroplane remains valid.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained at varna prison. on 23 june 2006 the varna district court ordered the applicant’s detention on remand in connection with that charge. was joined, continued over the months which followed. on 18 december 2006 an investigator brought charges against the applicant in connection with the two offences mentioned above. on an unspecified date in 2007 the applicant was indicted and taken to court. it heard the doctor who had examined the applicant on the evening of 21 june 2006 (see paragraph 12 above). were examined as witnesses and recounted their conversation with the applicant on 21 june 2006 and the confession he had made to them. they replied to questions posed by the prosecution and the defence. the regional court heard other experts and witnesses. after the murder the applicant had run away. a stranger had given him a lift to another village, but the applicant had forgotten a bag containing his clothes and the gun in the stranger’s car. in establishing the facts, the regional court relied on the following most important pieces of evidence: a metal fragment which had been found under the victim’s body and which the experts confirmed to be the missing part of the cock of the gun; traces of the victim’s blood found on the handle of the gun found in the applicant’s bag; the testimony of the person who had given the applicant a lift in his car and had found that bag; the fact that that person had also recognised the applicant’s photo when it had been shown to him by the police; and the testimony of officers z.k. who had recounted what the applicant had confessed to them with regard to the course of the events in the victim’s house. he argued that the regional court had not commented on the evidence showing that the applicant had been beaten in order to make the confession the officers had recounted, pointed out that the confession had not been repeated once the applicant had been taken before an investigator, and relied again on article 118 of the code of criminal procedure. in a judgment of 30 may 2008 the court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence, finding that his guilt had been proved beyond reasonable doubt.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1973 and 1972 respectively. however, he indicated that he would be likely to recognize the individuals concerned, and that in any event the man had already been apprehended by uniformed police officers. an employee at nazlım, identified the first applicant as the man who had thrown molotov cocktails at the shop where she worked, where three people had been killed. identified the first applicant as one of the individuals who had thrown molotov cocktails at that shop. he admitted having had sympathy towards the illegal organisation and having been involved in the march. however, he stated that he had only acted as a lookout at the entrance to the street, and denied having thrown molotov cocktails. on 16 may 1995 the first applicant took part in a photo identification procedure, again in the absence of a lawyer. according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, he identified mr bingöl (“the second applicant”) as one of the accomplices. on the same day, the first applicant was brought before a judge of the istanbul state security court, before whom he reiterated that he had not participated in the rally and had nothing to say about it. according to a report drawn up by the police and signed by the applicant, he identified the first applicant. should be heard by the court in the presence of the applicant. at the end of each hearing the trial court decided to continue the applicants’ detention. the trial court rejected his applications. that letter was read out at a hearing on 7 february 2002. on 9 october 2002 the court of cassation quashed the judgment again on procedural grounds, without examining the merits of the case.
according to a medical report issued on 29 june 2004 by the gaziantep university hospital, the applicant’s state of health required him to follow one diet for his diabetes and another one for his coronary disease, and to live in a well-ventilated environment free of tobacco smoke. a report drawn up on 24 july 2008 by the erzurum hospital’s health board pointed out that owing to his cardiac issues the applicant had to adhere to a special anti-cholesterol diet with high poultry meat and vegetable content and low levels of beef and saturated fats. the report mentioned that if the prison in which the applicant had been placed offered a wide choice of daily menus it would be unnecessary to transfer the applicant to another prison providing such facilities. it added that on the other hand, if the prison only offered one standard menu, the erzurum hospital’s health board would hold a further meeting in order to decide whether the applicant should be transferred to another prison, after ascertaining the view of a dietician on the cholesterol content of the standard menu. on 24 october 2008 the prison disciplinary board rejected his request on the grounds that the foodstuffs would spoil very quickly, before reaching their destination. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 7 november 2008 the erzurum judge responsible for the execution of sentences (“the judge responsible for the execution of sentences”) dismissed the appeal. meanwhile, on 24 november 2008, the applicant had been taken to the emergency department of erzurum hospital complaining of chest pains. on 5 december 2008 he underwent an exercise electrocardiogram. he also complained about his difficulties in obtaining medication. on 2 january 2009 the judge responsible for the execution of sentences allowed the applicant’s request. that judge referred in his decision to a document which the prison authorities had drawn up for the attention of the erzurum public prosecutor’s office, stating the following:“... medically prescribed diets cannot be prepared in [our] prison’s kitchen; we can only cook unsalted and unspiced versions of the meals prepared for the other [prisoners]. extra potatoes, boiled eggs and tomatoes are sometimes provided.” on the same day the prosecutor lodged a fresh appeal against the decision of 8 january 2009, this time with the assize court. according to the prosecutor, the prison would only be able to improve its service in that respect if the amount of the daily allowance were increased.
the applicant institute is a private institute that carries out research in the field of social sciences. the research projects were to be evaluated under the rules on quality assessment and funding of the public research organisation programme. on 17 february 2004 the ministry decided that the applicant institute would not be awarded any funding. on 19 october 2009 the applicant institute lodged another action before the administrative court on account of the ministry’s failure to adopt a decision within the prescribed time-limit. it was further noted that evaluators had signed a declaration of confidentiality and an undertaking to withdraw in the event that a conflict of interests was found. additionally, it submitted a letter of 2 december 2003 which one of the witnesses, k., had sent to the minister of education, science and sport and several other addressees. in the letter k. notified them of problems he had detected in the tender proceedings in which he had participated as an evaluator. after the parties had exchanged a number of written submissions, the administrative court, without holding a hearing, dismissed the action. the reasons for the decision were given on a single page. invoking section 71(2) of the administrative dispute act (zakon o upravnem sporu – hereinafter “the ada”, see paragraph 23 below), the administrative court chiefly referred to the submissions of the ministry. it considered, among other things, that the ministry had not acted unlawfully in joining the proceedings. regarding the alleged conflict of interests, the court stated that it agreed with the ministry as to why no such conflict existed and cited section 71(2) of the ada (see paragraph 23 below). no reasons were given for not holding a hearing. none of the evidence relied on by the applicant institute in their appeal (see paragraph 11 above) was acknowledged or referred to in the court’s reasoning. it also argued that the administrative court had failed to address its allegations that errors had been made in the evaluation procedure, and complained that insufficient reasoning had been given for the decision.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is detained in diyarbakır. during his detention in police custody, the applicant was allegedly subjected to ill-treatment by police officers. in particular, electric shocks were administered to his testicles. on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who questioned him in the absence of a lawyer. at the end of the hearing, the court ordered that the applicant be placed in pre-trial detention. on 19 march 2002 the diyarbakır state security court held the first hearing on the merits of the case. the report stated that the applicant had a dilation of the veins in his left testicle of up to 2.6 mm, which had resulted in a varicocele. state security courts were abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004. the case against the applicant was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. on 25 june 2004 the diyarbakır public prosecutor issued a decision to discontinue the criminal proceedings against the police officers on account of a lack of evidence. the courts ordered that he be kept in detention owing to the nature of the offence, the state of the evidence and the contents of the file. on 2 april 2010 the applicant asked the diyarbakır assize court for his release pending trial. on 5 june 2012 the diyarbakır juvenile court found that, inter alia, on the basis of the applicant’s statements to the police, the applicant had committed the offence under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code and sentenced him to sixteen years and eight months’ imprisonment. on 17 june 2014 the court of cassation upheld the diyarbakır juvenile court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yerevan. in 1983 and 1988 the applicant was found guilty of indecent acts with minors and sentenced to prison sentences. who had stopped the applicant’s car for a violation of traffic laws. in the course of the investigation the applicant testified that v.s. and g.g. on 10 june 2005 the applicant’s lawyer addressed a letter to the investigator, alleging that it had been the applicant who had been assaulted by v.s. and g.g rather than the other way around. on 16 february 2006 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan acquitted the applicant, finding that he was not guilty of the imputed offence. had exceeded their authority by acting violently against the applicant, which had caused serious damage and grave consequences to the applicant and his family. on unspecified dates the prosecutor’s office and officers v.s. and g.g. on 27 november 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the courts, seeking to annul the investigator’s decision of 21 june 2005 as it contradicted the findings reached by the courts in his trial when assessing the actions of the police officers. furthermore, the prosecuting authority was obliged by law to take measures to restore his rights of its own motion. on 8 april 2009 the court of cassation found that the applicant had failed to show that he had valid reasons for missing the prescribed one-month time‑limit and decided to refuse the examination of the applicant’s appeal on points of law. on 11 september 2007 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the state, seeking further compensation for pecuniary damage, specifically for loss of income, and compensation for non-pecuniary damage in relation to his two unfair convictions, in the amount of 15,078,664 united states dollars, and in relation to his unlawful arrest and detention and infliction of bodily harm, in the amount of 1,000,000 euros (eur). on 26 november 2007 the kentron and nork-marash district court decided to dismiss his claims. on 28 november 2007 the applicant lodged an appeal. on 29 july 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, which was declared inadmissible for lack of merit by the court of cassation on 28 october 2008.
from 1 january 2001 the applicant concluded several consecutive fixed-duration contracts of employment with the company c.n.s. the contracts were for a continuous period which in total amounted to over seven years and seven months. on 5 june 2009 the applicant’s employer returned the applicant’s employment registration book to him, without any written or oral notification, showing that his employment had been terminated. on 20 july 2009 the applicant brought a civil action before the ivanić grad municipal court (općinski sud u ivanić gradu). he also asked the municipal court to establish that his employment had not been terminated and to order his reinstatement. on 22 january 2010 the ivanić grad municipal court dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. upon an appeal by the applicant, on 16 february 2011 the velika gorica county court (županijski sud u velikoj gorici) quashed the first‑instance decision and remitted the case for fresh consideration. he had not concluded a new contract of employment with his employer and he had therefore been obliged to lodge an application for the protection of his rights with his employer within the fifteen-day time-limit, starting from 1 june 2009. however, he had failed to do so and consequently his claim had been lodged out of time. on 12 may 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal with the velika gorica county court. on 14 november 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (revizija) with the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske), which was dismissed as ill-founded on 25 september 2012. accordingly, his claim had been lodged out of time. revr-1697/11 of 6 june 2012, had dismissed the defendant’s (the employer’s) objection that the claim was time-barred. namely, the supreme court had held that the claim had been of a declaratory nature and as such was not subject to deadlines. on 6 may 2013 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as manifestly ill-founded.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in stari mikanovci. he suffered a work-related accident and became unable to work. on 24 december 1990 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against hrvatske željeznice, seeking that the above-mentioned monthly payments be increased on the grounds of changed circumstances. the defendant did not oppose an increase in the monthly payments, but disputed the amount requested. the vukovar municipal court commissioned a report from an accounting expert, and on 13 february 1991 the expert witness submitted his report. at a hearing held on 20 february 1991 the expert witness gave oral evidence. on 24 april 1991 the first-instance court allowed the applicant’s claim in part, but on 16 august 1991 the vukovar county court (županijski sud u vukovaru) quashed the first-instance judgment in part, because it found that the first-instance court had failed to correctly establish the facts. in the resumed proceedings, the first-instance court commissioned a report from an accounting expert and ordered the applicant to pay costs in advance in the sum of 696.55 croatian kunas (hrk). on 5 june 2003 the expert witness submitted his report and the defendant objected to the expert’s findings. he stated that he could not precisely determine individual amounts until the croatian pension fund adjusted the applicant’s pension. meanwhile, the defendant split into four companies, and the first‑instance court ordered the applicant to correct his claim by accurately identifying the defendant. at a hearing on 3 february 2009 the applicant reiterated all the arguments and repeated that he had not been able to pay for the costs of the expert report. he asked the court to allow his claim as specified in his submissions of 16 february 2007. neither party put forward any new evidence. on 16 february 2009, relying on the rules regulating the burden of proof, the first-instance court issued a judgment dismissing the applicant’s claim.
the applicant was born in 1962 in jendouba, in the tunisian republic (“tunisia”), and lives in versoix in the canton of geneva. he alleges that he was then taken to tunis by tunisian officials. the applicant has since been living in the canton of geneva. it was allegedly impossible to lodge a civil action of this sort in tunisia. the relevant part of the judgment reads as follows:“with regard to an action in tort based on the unlawful acts that were allegedly committed in tunisia by the defendants, to the claimant’s detriment, the swiss courts do not have territorial jurisdiction under international law to examine the complaint, given that the defendants are not domiciled or habitually resident in switzerland, and given also that no illegal act or detrimental outcome occurred in switzerland, pursuant to sections 2 and 129 of the ldip.” his appeal was rejected in a judgment of 15 september 2006. with regard to the jurisdiction of the swiss courts, he argued that the purpose of the introduction of a forum of necessity in section 3 of the ldip (see paragraph 37 below) had been to avoid denials of justice, especially in cases of political persecution, and that he had provided sufficient evidence that he could not reasonably bring proceedings before a foreign court. in the present case, the first condition is indisputably fulfilled. 3.4 section 3 of the ldip, which must be interpreted restrictively ... represents a safety valve, intended to avoid denials of justice ... in the event of a negative conflict of jurisdiction. where there are several competing fora in switzerland, it is the first authority before which an action is brought that has jurisdiction. in this regard, the “cause” of the action is the basis of the claim [“base de la prétention”] (‘streitgrund” rather than “sachverhalt”), though it should be noted that the legal writers are in some disagreement as to the content and scope of that basis. in other words, it is the “cause” – which concerns the set of facts and the legal argumentation – rather than the person of the applicant which must have a sufficient connection with switzerland. in the present case, however, the claimant complains of acts of torture that were allegedly committed in tunisia, by tunisians resident in tunisia, against a tunisian residing in italy. according to the information received, it was foreseen that selected cases would be transmitted to the courts at a later stage in the investigation process. he specified at the hearing of 14 june 2017 that he had in fact contacted the tdc and had received a simple acknowledgment of receipt in february 2016, but had had no further communication from the tdc since then.
the applicant company is a privately owned company registered in danilovgrad, montenegro. in july 2004 a call for tender for hotel “otrant” in montenegro was issued. the deadline for submitting bids was october 2004. together with three other companies, the applicant company took part in the tendering process. on 30 november 2004, however, it was informed that the tender was awarded to another bidder. on an unspecified date in december 2004, the applicant company objected to this decision. on 29 december 2004 the commercial court in podgorica (privredni sud u podgorici) rejected the applicant company’s objection. on 28 january 2006 the court of appeal quashed this decision and remitted the case to the first instance. on 15 june 2006 the commercial court ruled against the applicant company. this decision was served on the applicant company on 8 september 2009. on 26 march 2010 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the commercial court. the decision of the court of appeal was served on the applicant company’s lawyer on 27 april 2010. on 15 july 2010 the applicant company lodged an initiative urging the supreme public prosecutor’s office (vrhovno državno tužilaštvo) to file a request for the protection of legality (zahtjev za zaštitu zakonitosti), but this motion was rejected on 21 july 2010. on 30 july 2010 the applicant company lodged a constitutional appeal. on 14 october 2010 the constitutional court rejected this appeal as having been lodged out of time.
the applicants live in stobreč (application no. evidence: extract from the cadastre, testimony of the witness n.p., 866/175 belongs to the plaintiff ivan brčić in its entirety. evidence: see abovefor these reasons it is proposed that the court, after having conducted the proceedings, adopt the followingjudgment 1. ...the plaintiffs base their claim on ... adverse possession. [ the court] therefore considers that the period of 20 years is required and sufficient to acquire ownership of immovable property by adverse possession.” in the civil proceedings ... it was established that ... the complainants ... had been in continuous exclusive possession of the disputed property since at least 1912 and in good faith. on 4 april 2002 the applicants brought a civil action in the split municipal court against split township, seeking a declaration of their ownership of the three plots of land and registration in their names in the land register. in the response to the applicants’ action the respondent authority submitted that the property in question had been in social ownership and that, having regard to the constitutional court’s decision invalidating section 388(4) of the 1996 property act (see paragraph 15 above), the fact of possessing socially owned property before 8 october 1991 could not be taken into account in calculating the time-limit for adverse possession. in a judgment of 19 december 2002 the municipal court ruled in favour of the applicants. therefore, since [for the court] it is beyond dispute that the plot in question had been socially owned on 8 october 1991 ... in order to determine whether it had been acquired by adverse possession it had to be established whether the plaintiffs’ legal predecessors had been in possession of certain quality of the disputed property before 6 april 1941 and thus for the period prescribed for adverse possession by the rules applicable at the time.” 1 to the convention and article 14 of the convention. yet, the split county court and the constitutional court had misapplied domestic law and dismissed their claim by holding that a period of forty years had been necessary to acquire ownership by adverse possession (see radomilja and others, cited above, § 46). ...besides, from the government submissions on the merits it follows that they do not comment on the fact ..., ... which is one of the grounds of this application, that in accordance with the [case-law of the] domestic courts the time-period necessary for acquiring ownership of immovable property in social ownership by adverse possession is 20 years, which has to elapse by 6 april 1941. the government in their comments of 15 january 2015 (in the case of radomilja and others) and of 4 january 2016 (in the jakeljić case) first reiterated their arguments as to why the applicants had not had legitimate expectations to become the owners of the land in question.
the applicant is an economics professor and a journalist in turkey. during the night of violence, more than 300 people were killed and more than 2,500 were injured. on 20 july 2016 the government declared a state of emergency for a period of three months as from 21 july 2016; the state of emergency was subsequently extended for further periods of three months by the council of ministers, chaired by the president, most recently with effect from 19 january 2018. on 21 july 2016 the turkish authorities gave notice to the secretary general of the council of europe of a derogation from the convention under article 15. the applicant remained in police custody for twelve days at the istanbul police anti-terrorist branch. during his first five days in custody, he was not permitted to speak to his lawyers. it is not clear exactly when [it] will pull its hand out of the bag or how [it] will do so” (“türkiye devleti içinde de muhtemelen bütün bu gelişmeleri dış dünyada daha fazla belgeleyen, izleyen bir başka da yapı var. besides the evidence he had already submitted when the bill of indictment had been filed, the public prosecutor also produced messages sent by other suspected members of fetö/pdy via bylock, an encrypted messaging service allegedly used by members of that organisation. the criminal proceedings are still ongoing in the national courts. it further noted that it could not be clearly established from the reasons given for ordering and extending the applicant’s pre-trial detention whether the measure met a pressing social need or why it was necessary. with regard to the complaints concerning the lawfulness and duration of the applicant’s detention in police custody, the constitutional court held that he should have brought an action under article 141 § 1 (a) of the ccp but had refrained from doing so. accordingly, it declared these complaints inadmissible for failure to exhaust the appropriate remedies. concerning the applicant’s complaint that he had had no access to the investigation file, the constitutional court held that he had had sufficient means available to prepare his defence to the charges against him and challenge his pre-trial detention, in view of the contents of the detailed questions put to him during questioning by the public prosecutor and the magistrate, and the overall duration of the restriction on access to the case file. on 19 january 2018 the constitutional court’s judgment on the individual application lodged by the applicant was published in official gazette no. on 30 january 2018 the applicant lodged a further individual application with the constitutional court.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in kharkiv, ukraine. on 29 december 2006 the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk, ukraine, ordered to arrest and bring the applicant to the court in order to determine the preventive measure during the investigation of his alleged robbery. the applicant’s name was put on the international list of wanted persons. as the applicant was a russian national, he was released. on 21 december 2007 the russian federal migration authority concluded that the applicant had fraudulently obtained his russian passport by falsifying a number of documents. they ordered to seize his passport and put his name on the federal wanted list. the applicant’s subsequent attempts to challenge the federal migration authority’s decision on his russian passport were unsuccessful. on 13 may 2008 the applicant was arrested. on 24 june 2008 a district prosecutor decided that the applicant should be “placed in custody” considering that the decision of the leninskiy district court of dnepropetrovsk of 29 december 2006 authorised “placement into custody”, as required under article 466 § 2 of the russian code of criminal procedure (“the ccrp”). on several occasions the applicant unsuccessfully complained about his detention to the prosecuting authorities. on 4 september 2008 the perovskiy district court of moscow dismissed the applicant’s complaint considering that his arrest and detention in relation to the ukrainian extradition request had been and remained lawful. on 18 november 2008 the moscow city court confirmed the decision of 3 october 2008. on 29 january 2009 the supreme court of russia upheld the judgment of 18 november 2008 on appeal. on 20 may 2009 the applicant was transferred to the ukrainian authorities in the town of kharkov. on 6 june 2009 a ukrainian court refused to order the applicant’s detention pending the investigation.
the applicant was born in 1929 and lives in st petersburg. on 2 february 2001 the town court dismissed the claims. on 26 january 2006, upon the applicant’s supervisory review appeal, the presidium of the supreme court quashed the judgment of 2 february 2001 and the decision of 11 may 2005 as it found that the lower courts misjudged the facts of the case and erred in application of the national law. on 12 february 2007 the supreme court found the decision of 18 december 2006 to award the applicant money unlawful and unreasoned, quashed the decision and yet again remitted the case for a new examination. each time, on 18 july 2007 and 19 may 2008, respectively, the judgment of the town court was set aside on appeal, and the case was remitted for a new examination. on 23 september 2008 the town court granted the applicant’s claims in part. it ordered the government of the republic of sakha (yakutiya) to pay the applicant rub 1,812,838.10 from the federal budget funds allocated for the housing subsidies for persons leaving the high north regions. on 17 november 2008 the judgment of 23 september 2008 was upheld on appeal by the supreme court. on 10 february 2010 a writ of execution was issued. on 13 april and 8 june 2011 respectively the writ of execution was returned to the applicant as the debtor had no accounts at these bodies. on 29 july 2011 the department of the federal bailiffs’ service for the republic of sakha (yakutiya) (“the bailiffs’ service) received the writ of execution and opened the enforcement proceedings. on 8 february 2012 the district court clarified the judgment of 23 september 2008. on 10 july 2012 the bailiffs’ service received the writ of execution and opened the enforcement proceedings. on 10 september 2012 the enforcement proceedings were terminated for the debtor had no property that the debt could be recovered from. the judgment of 23 september 2008 remained unenforced.
the applicant is a journalist who had been working since 2002 for the daily newspaper zaman, which was viewed as the principal publication medium of the “gülenist” network and was closed down following the adoption of legislative decree no. from 2001 onwards, he also lectured on comparative politics and turkish political history at a private university in istanbul. during the night of violence, more than 300 people were killed and more than 2,500 were injured. several criminal investigations were subsequently initiated by the appropriate prosecuting authorities in relation to suspected members of that organisation. at the end of the hearing, the magistrate, taking into account the contents of the articles written by the applicant – and finding that they had promoted the terrorist organisation in question, even after 17 december 2013 – ordered his pre-trial detention. in his decision, the magistrate stated in particular that it was an established fact that in order to prepare the ground for a military coup, the instigators needed to create the perception that the leaders of the country concerned were dictators. as evidence, he produced six articles written by the applicant in 2013 and 2014. on 8 september 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. in a decision of 26 october 2016 the constitutional court refused to apply an interim measure of that kind. it added that should there be a change in his health or the conditions of his detention, he would be entitled to make a further application for an interim measure to secure his release. on 11 january 2018 the constitutional court gave a judgment (no. lastly, it found that it was clear that the applicant’s pre-trial detention could have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and of the press, in so far as it had not been based on any concrete evidence other than his articles (see paragraph 140 of the constitutional court’s judgment). the constitutional court found no causal link between the violation established and the damage alleged on that account and dismissed the claim. however, noting that the constitutional court’s judgments were final and binding on the assize court, he expressed the view that the applicant’s release should be ordered. on 12 january 2018 the applicant lodged an objection with a view to securing his release.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in naxxar. ...yes i received an anonymous email...and i received threatening letters last november. today they were told by maltatoday...i can tell them myself...but when something illegal occurs, i go to the police. but yesterday i told the cop, and inspector c., that such discourse had long been doing the rounds at the centre [party club]. matters are even more worrying because when the police successfully traced the original writer and dispatcher of the e-mail, they impounded his computer and obliged him to go and sign daily at the police headquarters even though he was not accused of any crime. ...“yet the ease with which the mlp deputy leader phones him up to complain, and ‑ even worse ‑ the ease with which this leading politician is provided with a service that cannot be linked in any way with the pursuit of ‘criminality’ ‑ as we know it ‑ makes one wonder.” this is happening when they are still in opposition. had showed him a letter which the cop considered to be “injurious and full of threats” towards m.f.; had manipulated the cop due to the political office that he held in the party in which he militates; ii) that with his actions m.f. according to the applicant, from the speech delivered by m.f. he argued, in substance, that his opinion piece had consisted of criticism, which was a legitimate manner of expressing an opinion about the work of a public figure and was allowed in a democratic society ‑ noting that the extensive protection given to such a public figure served to silence free expression. he further claimed that the ordinary courts had referred to insinuations and allegations which had not been made or implied by the applicant in his article, such as the statement by the court of magistrates to the effect that m.f. ’s actions, which had resulted in an individual being investigated and subsequently having his computer seized. was that he had taken advantage of his political position to put pressure on the police in order that the latter would take action in persecuting an innocent citizen. by a judgment of 11 january 2013 the constitutional court dismissed his appeal.
68125/14 (wetjen) are a mother and father and their son, born in 2011. furthermore, statements by a former member of the community were published, confirming that children had been punished with rods. on 16 august 2013 the local youth office and the nördlingen family court received video footage from a television reporter showing ten different instances of corporal punishment in the community. none of the applicants was shown in the video footage. the court also ordered that the youth office, when taking the children into care, could have recourse to compulsion, request support from the police and be permitted to enter the premises of the twelve tribes community in klosterzimmern. the applicant children were subsequently examined but no physical signs of abuse or beating were revealed. the family court examined the applicant parents on 10 october 2013. the court based its assessment on the submissions of the parents, in which they had confirmed that they had disciplined their son. the court found that the statements by other children in parallel proceedings, the video footage and the statements of other witnesses confirmed that the disciplining of children in the community would include corporal punishment. the father stated that, in his opinion, a mild caning constituted neither violence nor child abuse. on 5 march 2014 the munich court of appeal upheld the family court’s decision in essence. on 30 november 2013 the family court revoked its interlocutory order of 1 september 2013 concerning the parents’ right to decide on the oldest daughter’s place of residence and health, but upheld the rest of the decision. in the beginning of december 2013 the oldest daughter was returned to her parents. the appeal by the applicants in application no. 68125/14 was declared inadmissible by the court of appeal on 4 june 2014 for being belated.
11308/16 (tlapak) are a mother and father. their two daughters a. and b. were born on 7 october 2009 and their son g. was born on 23 may 2013. the applicants’ children were subsequently examined but no physical signs of abuse or beating were revealed. as he was still being breastfed, his mother was permitted daily visits to give him milk. owing to their willingness to apply that method to their son, there was a likelihood bordering on certainty that if he remained with them, they would apply corporal punishment. since their parenting was based on religious convictions, they were unwilling to abandon the parenting method of corporal punishment and lacked the will to cooperate with the authorities or accept help. on 4 august 2014, the family court forwarded the privately commissioned expert opinion to the court-appointed expert, who responded to the criticism and gave details of his methodology in a letter of 15 august 2014. in a hearing on 19 september 2014 the court proposed an agreement between the applicants and the youth office, with the aim of returning their son to them. corporal punishment of the kind at issue was particularly degrading for a child. the court of appeal, after hearing the applicants, their son, the son’s guardian ad litem, a representative of the youth office, the court‑appointed expert and the expert commissioned by the applicants, dismissed the applicants’ appeal on 26 may 2015. beatings as such, the court held, constituted child abuse and misuse of parental authority. overall, it was in the best interests of the children to place them away from their parents. the severe interference with the applicants’ right to a family under article 6 of the basic law (see paragraph 53 below) by separating them from their children was nonetheless not only justified but also proportionate since the risk to the children could not be averted using milder means. besides the problem of detecting corporal punishment through unannounced visits by the youth office (see paragraph 30 above), the court also pointed out that the applicants had consistently, over the course of the proceedings, shown a lack of willingness to cooperate with the youth office and had refused to accept state schools, both of which the court found necessary to prevent degrading corporal punishment and ensure the children’s autonomous development. the applicants subsequently appealed against the decision of the family court and applied for an interim measure to suspend the order to hand their son over to the youth office.
at the time of the events he was a district police officer in the kalyninskyy district police in horlivka. however, eventually she specified that m. had not been strangling the second applicant, but had simply held her and not let her leave. however, having approached her, he realised that he had been mistaken. she was diagnosed with several bruises on her neck and situational neurosis. the second applicant contested that submission. on an unspecified date (illegible in the available copy) the kalyninskyy prosecutor’s office sent a summons to the first applicant at his registered residence (his mother’s home), instructing him to come to the prosecutor’s office on 5 september 2008. she stated that he had been living separately from her for about two years and that she was not aware of his whereabouts. on 29 september 2008 the chief of medicine of horlivka hospital informed the investigator, in reply to the latter’s enquiry, that the last time the first applicant had come to the hospital had been 15 september 2008 and that the hospital administration did not know how he could be reached. on 10 september 2008 the investigator applied to the kalyninskyy court for authorisation to search the first applicant’s registered residence (the flat of the fourth applicant). according to the third applicant, they were acquaintances of the police officers. as indicated in the search report, it lasted from 5.20 p.m. to 7.04 p.m. the police seized a number of documents related to the first applicant’s work. on 16 september 2008 the police conducted a search of the flat of the fourth applicant. on 11 february 2009 the police conducted a search of the fourth applicant’s flat on the basis of the court ruling of 7 october 2008. the third and fourth applicants also complained many times to the prosecution authorities of the unlawfulness of the searches. it appears that the applicants were unaware of that decision.
the applicant was born in 1965 and is currently detained in czarne prison in poland. in his application form the applicant, without specifying the exact period of his detention, submitted that he had been held in overcrowded cells at nicosia central prisons, where there was only 0.5 to 1.7 sq. on the latter date he had been placed in block 2a, where he had been detained until his release on 18 may 2012. (a)  block 5: 14 september 2010-24 january 2011 11. block 5 included block 5a, which had twenty-three double occupancy cells of the same size as block 5, accommodating forty-three remand prisoners. at the time the applicant had been detained there block 2b had not yet been renovated. m, which accommodated five to seven detainees, and a common room which had been made into a dormitory for between twenty and fifty inmates. block 2b had six toilets and six showers. based on the daily occupancy records for the relevant period, the number of inmates in the block varied from 80 to 124 per day. the government stated that it was possible that the applicant had spent time in all the different types of cells in this block during his detention. m of personal space; in the larger cell he would have had from approximately 2.8 to 3.9 sq. (d)  additional information regarding the general conditions in the blocks 15. the various parts of the prison were equipped with a central heating system which covered all the blocks and cells. all the cells had properly insulated windows, which provided natural light and ventilation. after that, the detainees could move freely within their blocks until 9 p.m. on weekdays and 10 p.m. on weekends and public holidays.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in moscow. he is a former fsb (russian security service) officer. the government did not submit a copy of this decision. on 31 august 2005 the prosecutor asked the district court to reinstate the requisite time-limit to permit him to appeal against the decision of 19 august 2005, noting that he had received a copy thereof only five days after its delivery. ik-13 and was placed in a disciplinary cell. on 24 november 2005 the district court re-examined the applicant’s application for parole and dismissed it. on 15 march 2006 the regional court upheld the decision of 24 november 2005 on appeal. on 30 september 2005 he was transferred to one of the dormitories. the cell was equipped with both natural and artificial ventilation. he was allowed two hours’ exercise per day in a specially designated area. there was a tank with boiled potable water. the distance between the toilet and the dining table/nearest sleeping place was at least 1.5 m. hygiene and food provision both met the statutory standards. a large part of the cell was occupied by a cupboard where mattresses and pillows were stored during the daytime. in the summer, the cell was very hot and humid and the ventilation did not work. the daily outdoor exercise lasted between fifteen and forty minutes.
the applicant, mr sergey marksovich dudin, is a russian national, who was born in 1962 and lives in parfino, novgorod region. he is represented before the court by mr k. v. pakin, a lawyer practising in velikiy novgorod. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. on 23 july 2007 the applicant was apprehended by police at the cargo terminal “shushary” in saint petersburg under suspicion of robbery. later that day he was transferred to krestsy, novgorod region. on 25 july 2007 the krestetskiy district court of novgorod region (the district court) ordered pre-trial detention of the applicant. in the order of 2 november 2007 the district court authorised extension of the applicant’s detention “until and including 24 december 2007”. on 25 december 2007 between 10.00 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. the district court held a preliminary hearing ordering the criminal case to be send to trial and the applicant’s further detention. during the hearing the applicant and his representative raised the objection regarding unlawfulness of the applicant’s detention between 24 december 2007 and the time of the hearing, but the district court dismissed it without advancing any specific reasons in this regard. on 21 february 2008 the novgorod regional court upheld the lower court’s decision. on 2 march 2011 the applicant was released before serving his full sentence on probation. on 24 april 2008 the novgorodskiy town court of novgorod region found that between midnight 24 december 2007 and 11.00 a.m. on 25 december 2007 the applicant’s detention was unlawful and violated his rights under article 22 of the russian constitution and article 5 § 1 of the convention. the applicant was awarded non-pecuniary damages of 2000 russian roubles (50 euros). the representative of the ministry of the interior (intervening in the proceedings) admitted that the authorisation for the detention expired on 24 december 2007. on 11 june 2008 the novgorod regional court annulled the lower court’s judgment on appeal and adopted a new judgment dismissing the applicant’s claims.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lived in naberezhniye chelny, tatarstan republic, before his conviction of an unrelated criminal offence. on 7 april 2008 the applicant notified the executive committee of naberezhniye chelny of his intention to hold a public event in the form of a hunger strike in front of the local prosecutor’s office beginning from 21 april 2008. on 17 april 2008 the head of the public relations department of the local executive committee informed the applicant that his planned public event amounted to a “picket” within the meaning of the public events act (hereinafter “pea”). he gathered passers-by and voiced his claims to them. it is unclear whether the applicant was arrested by the police or otherwise deprived of his liberty at any moment prior to appearing before the justice of the peace. at 8 p.m. on the same day the applicant returned to the site near the prosecutor’s office and resumed his demonstration. the police ordered him to terminate this allegedly unlawful public event, but he refused. on 24 april 2008 the justice of the peace of the 8th court circuit of naberezhniye chelny found the applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 1 of the cao and imposed a fine of 1,000 russian roubles ((rub), equivalent to 27 euros (eur) at the time). in breach of the pea he had failed to specify his arrangements for preventing disorder or providing medical aid during the event. by a decision of 7 may 2008 the town court upheld the judgment of the justice of the peace. the justice of the peace found it established, on the basis of testimony of two eyewitnesses and police officers, that at 8 p.m. on 22 april 2008 the applicant being aware of the administrative offence proceedings pending against him under article 20.2 of the cao, had nevertheless disobeyed the lawful police order to stop the picket being held in breach of the pea. the court sentenced him to seven days of administrative detention. the applicant’s detention from 9 p.m. on 22 april to 3.35 p.m. on 24 april 2008 counted towards his sentence of administrative detention. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the naberezhniye chelny town court. on 3 june 2008 the applicant lodged a supervisory-review appeal against the judgment of 7 may 2008.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in viana do castelo (portugal). the applicant is a lawyer by training and an auditor by profession. from 1993 onwards, he was no longer authorised to practise as a lawyer. this decision was published in the official gazette in june 2000. on 28 february 2008, in the context of a set of civil proceedings in which he was nevertheless acting as a lawyer, the applicant criticised the decisions taken by the judge hearing the case, saying that they were not worthy of a judge and that a judge could not lie or omit the truth in the exercise of his functions. he also sought leave to replace his officially appointed defence counsel and represent himself. the court held that under the provisions of portuguese law, in particular article 32 of the constitution and articles 64 § 3 and 287 § 4 of the ccp (see paragraphs 28, 33 and 40 below), the defendant had the right to be represented by independent counsel, a right which would not be made effective if self-representation were to be allowed. it considered the appeal to be admissible despite the fact that it had been lodged by the applicant in person, as it concerned the very issue whether the applicant, as the defendant, was entitled to conduct his own defence. this reflected the premise that the accused would be better defended when the defence was conducted by a legal professional trained in advocacy. on 11 may 2012 the constitutional court decided that it was not necessary to adjudicate on the constitutional appeal lodged by the applicant in person, in which he had complained about the lower courts’ refusal to grant him leave to represent himself. the constitutional court found that the appeal had been neither signed nor endorsed by court-appointed defence counsel. the applicant failed to attend the hearing, at which his court-appointed counsel was present. it confirmed that, as had previously been decided in a final decision, the applicant, as the defendant, did not have the right to represent himself in the proceedings. by an order dated 18 november 2014 the porto court of appeal, acting through its president, dismissed a complaint lodged by the applicant in person against the order of the baixo-vouga criminal court. likewise, this approach was not in breach of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) or of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1963 and currently lives in alexandria (egypt). on 15 february 2010, while crossing the border between serbia and croatia with his wife, the applicant was caught by the croatian customs authorities carrying the sum of 563,300 euros (eur) which he had failed to declare, contrary to the law. the customs authorities immediately seized the eur 560,000. the applicant submitted relevant documents as evidence of those transactions. during the proceedings the ministry requested information from the relevant authorities in serbia, france and italy. by a decision of 9 july 2010 the ministry found the applicant guilty of having committed the administrative offence in question and fined him 5,000 croatian kunas (hrk). the ministry held that the origin of the money which the applicant had failed to declare was irrelevant in relation to the commission of the offence of which he had been convicted or the imposition of the fine. in particular, the ministry decided not to confiscate eur 241,500 of the money which the applicant had not declared, because it found that this sum did indeed originate from the sale of his house in france. the ministry further held that: (a)  since there was no evidence that the applicant had borrowed that money from his company, by carrying it across border he had disposed of it as if it had belonged to him, which amounted to misappropriation of the company’s funds, an offence punishable in every country; and (b)  he had failed to pay the relevant taxes in france on that amount. it therefore decided to confiscate that sum. by a decision of 17 september 2010 the high court for administrative offences (visoki prekršajni sud republike hrvatske) dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the ministry’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. the applicant then, on 17 december 2010, lodged a constitutional complaint, alleging, inter alia, a violation of his constitutionally protected right of ownership. under french law, a société civile immobilière (sci) is a civil (non‑commercial) company constituted for the ownership and management of real estate (articles 1845 to 1870-1 of the french civil code). it is a legal entity, meaning it has a legal personality distinct from that of its members. the members are, however, liable for the debts of the company without limitation, meaning that they may be liable in relation to their personal assets (article 1857 of the french civil code).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in yerevan. on 10 january 2005 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered a search of the applicant’s apartment. on 23 june 2005 the investigator decided to confiscate for security the applicant’s property. on 8 and 29 december 2005 respectively the investigator ordered forensic handwriting examinations to be conducted. on 7 march 2006 the investigator decided to amend the applicant’s charges and to bring new charges against him under article 178 §§ 2 (2) and 3 (1), article 182 § 3 (2), article 213 § 2 (1) and (2), and article 349 § 1 of the cc on account of fraud in large and particularly large amounts, extortion in particularly large amounts, usury performed as a profession which resulted in dire financial consequences for the injured parties, and forgery of evidence. however, upon an appeal by the prosecutor, on 28 march 2006 the court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and ordered the applicant’s detention for a period of two months. on 29 and 30 march and 13 april 2006 the investigator lodged applications with the district court for a search warrant and to confiscate information covered by bank secrecy. these applications were granted on 29 and 31 march and 13 april 2006. on 14 july 2006 the supervising prosecutor approved the bill of indictment and the case was sent to the district court, which took it over on 24 july 2006. by the district court’s decision of 18 august 2006 the case was set for trial. on three occasions the court decided to have the absent witnesses and/or victims brought by force to the hearing. on 1 november 2007 another judge took over the case and the examination of the case started anew. between 21 november 2007 and 23 december 2010, the court held forty hearings which were adjourned because of the absence of the applicant or his lawyer or because of applications lodged by them. on 28 august 2009 and 12 october 2010 respectively the prosecutor decided to amend the charges and/or to bring new charges against the applicant. in march and june 2010 the district court partially granted or refused applications, introduced by the applicant and one of the victims, requesting that it order a forensic examination.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in bijela (montenegro). on 14 august 2002 the applicant’s husband m.z., seeking to have the contract for the exchange of the houses declared null and void and to obtain the possession of the house in dubrovnik. had not had the necessary authorisation to sign such a contract. indicated the value of the subject matter of the dispute (vrijednost predmeta spora) at 10,000 croatian kunas (hrk) (approximately eur 1,300 at the time). a first hearing in the case was held on 3 march 2003. a lawyer practising in dubrovnik (who is also representing the applicant in the current proceedings before the court). in the second document he explained that the value of the subject matter of the dispute had been set too low, and indicated the new value of the subject matter of the dispute at hrk 105,000 (approximately eur 14,160 at the time). the respondents also opposed the request for an injunction. finally, they objected to the change of the value of the subject matter of the dispute, arguing that it had been increased only in order to enable the claimant to lodge an appeal on points of law. at a hearing on 13 september 2005 the municipal court examined the materials available in the file, following which it concluded the hearing. on 12 december 2005 the first-instance court ordered m.z. by judgment of 1 october 2009 the dubrovnik county court (županijski sud u dubrovniku; hereafter: “the county court”) dismissed an appeal by m.z. later on, at the hearing of 6 april 2005, the claimant’s representative indicated the value of the subject matter of the dispute at 105,000 croatian kunas considering that it had been indicated too low in the civil action. however, the claimant did not amend the claim at the same time.
the applicant is a legal entity, a local community of the christian baptist church in the republic of poland operating on the basis of the act of 30 june 1995 on relations between the republic of poland and the christian baptist church act (ustawa o stosunku państwa polskiego do kościola chrześcijan baptystów w rp – hereinafter “the 1995 act”) with its seat in wrocław. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the case concerns a property with a four-storey building and another building dedicated to sacral purposes in wrocław. in 1956 the applicant church lodged a request to be registered in the land and mortgage register as the owner of the property and the request was granted. the property was registered under the number 945. the order did not concern the part of the property which was dedicated exclusively to sacral purposes. the land-register entry 945 was however not closed. it appears that the plot number 9 constituted only a part of the previous property number 1077/42 and comprised only the building dedicated to sacral purposes. it appears that the governor’s letter was left without reply. on 20 june 2000 the minister replied that, since the administrative authorities were bound by provisions of law binding on the day of decision, it was irrelevant that the applicant church’s original request had been lodged when section 4 of the 1995 act had had different wording. on 12 march 2002 the supreme administrative court examined the applicant church’s complaint against the inactivity of the administrative authority and ordered the governor of lower silesia to issue a decision on the merits within the time-limit of thirty days. on 12 july 2002 the applicant church appealed. on 23 february 2003 the applicant church complained to the governor about the delay in the proceedings. on 11 march 2008 the applicant church lodged a complaint with the warsaw regional administrative court. on 13 october 2009 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant church’s complaint.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in varna. the applicant and his wife divorced on 21 august 2006 pursuant to a court-approved agreement between the two of them. under the terms of this agreement, the applicant undertook to pay child support to the two children born during the marriage and agreed to his wife’s keeping his family name after the divorce. subsequently, the applicant learned that his former wife had conceived their second child, born in 2003, as a result of a relationship with another man during her marriage to the applicant. the applicant underwent a dna test to determine whether he was the father of the younger child. the dna test ‒ the result of which the applicant received on 15 january 2007 ‒ established that he was not the biological father of the second child. the results of this dna test were never considered by a court. shortly thereafter, in february 2007, the applicant brought a civil claim in court, seeking to contest his paternity of the child in question. on 1 march 2007 the varna regional court dismissed his request, finding that it was time-barred due to the expiry – in 2004 – of the year-long limitation period counting from the child’s birth or from learning thereof (see the section “relevant domestic law and practice” below”). this finding was confirmed by two higher judicial instances, the final decision being pronounced by the supreme court of cassation on 19 september 2007. the applicant brought subsequent proceedings in which he sought to stop paying child support to the second child. on 20 may 2008 his claim was rejected by the varna district court, which found that it had not been proven that the applicant was not the child’s father, given that he had not rebutted the legal presumption under article 32 (1) of the family code 1985 (“the 1985 code”).
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in stara zagora. criminal proceedings were brought against him. the applicant was released on 7 april 2004, having spent one year, seven months and eight days in pre-trial detention. he claimed 11,500 bulgarian lev (bgl) in respect of the pecuniary and non-pecuniary damage which he had sustained. an initial hearing was held on 30 november 2004 before the sofia city court. at the hearing on 11 october 2005 the representative of the plovdiv court of appeal, judge n.d., presented a copy of the judgment delivered on 3 october 2005 by the stara zagora regional court (see paragraph 27 below), and invited the sofia city court to adjourn the civil case until the end of the second set of criminal proceedings against the applicant. following an appeal lodged by the applicant, the civil compensation proceedings resumed in january 2006. by judgment of 24 october 2006 the sofia city court dismissed the applicant’s claims. the applicant appealed to the sofia court of appeal. nevertheless, the president of the trial court, who was also acting as judge rapporteur, decided to withdraw from the case on the grounds that he had sat on the trial bench which had previously convicted the applicant (see paragraphs 6-13 above). the court refused to summon two defence witnesses and to put specific questions to the prosecution witnesses as being irrelevant to the establishment of the facts. in her observations of 18 january 2006 counsel for the applicant complained of bias on the part of the judges of the court of first instance, inter alia on account of that court’s refusal to transmit the case file to another court for assessment. the plovdiv court of appeal examined the criminal case in a public hearing held on 23 january 2005. that court heard a witness and accepted new written evidence presented by the defence.
the applicants were born in 1985, 1988 and 1984 respectively. the first and second applicants live in moscow. at 3.30 p.m. on the same day the local prosecutor’s office opened criminal proceedings against the applicants. on 13 march 2007 the investigator asked the odintsovo town court to remand the applicants in custody. she also read the prosecutor’s applications for remand. no other documents were examined at the hearings. they complained that they had not still received copies of the detention orders of 13 march 2007. on the same day counsel asked for permission to study the case-file. on 29 march 2007 the second applicant received a copy of his detention order. the evidence showing the existence of the risks of absconding, reoffending or interfering with the investigation to which the town court had referred in its detention orders had not been examined during the hearings and the applicants had not been given an opportunity to challenge it. finally, the applicants asked to be brought to the courtroom for the appeal hearing. on 12 april 2007 counsel asked for a second time for copies of the appeal decisions. by letter dated 18 april 2007 the president of the moscow regional court informed them that under the domestic law copies were to be sent by post to the detention facility, which had been done on 12 april 2007. copies of the detention orders could not be given to counsel. on the same day the applicants were released.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1966 respectively and live in moscow. the applicant, who was one of the indirect beneficial owners of a company, arranged for it to be sold to another company. it was alleged, in particular, that the company purchasing the applicant’s company also belonged to the applicant and the price it paid had been unrealistically low. on 28 november 2013 and 27 january 2014 the taganskiy district court extended the applicant’s detention, repeating its previous findings. on 27 december 2013 and 18 april 2014 respectively the moscow city court upheld the above detention extensions on appeal. on 28 march 2014 the ostankinskiy district court of moscow (“the ostankinskiy district court”) further extended the applicant’s detention. as regards article 108 § 1.1 of the ccrp, the district court stated as follows:“the court dismisses the arguments of the defence and of [the applicant] himself that the offence of which he is accused was committed within the sphere of his business activity because, according to the current bill of indictment, he is accused of having committed an offence motivated by profit with the aim of misappropriating another’s property by way of deception or abuse of trust, using an organised group, and on a particularly large scale. on 14 may 2014 the moscow city court upheld on appeal the detention extension order of 28 march 2014. on 10 april 2015 the moscow city court granted bail to the applicant. upon deposit of the bail sum on 17 april 2015 the applicant was released. on 15 september 2014 a criminal investigation was opened into the misappropriation of the funds of an insolvent bank. on 23 september 2014 the applicant, who owned the bank, was arrested on suspicion of having transferred money out of the bank’s account by acquiring unsecured promissory notes. the applicant argued that he should not be detained, inter alia, because he was suspected of an offence committed within the sphere of his business activity. on 10 november 2014 the moscow city court upheld the detention order on appeal. the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s argument that his alleged offences had been committed within the sphere of his business activity.
this application was lodged on 20 october 2008 by svetlana ivanovna tsvetkova, who was born in 1972 and lives in irkutsk. on 20 june 2008 a superior officer overruled the refusal to open a case. this refusal was then upheld by a final judgment of the regional court on 9 september 2010. the arrest record reads as follows:“[the applicant] was escorted to the police station at: 3.40 p.m.on account of: an administrative offence under: article 20.1 of the caofor the purpose(s) of article 27.3 of the cao: for taking a decision.” on 31 august 2010 the applicant was taken before a justice of the peace, who held a hearing at which he examined the applicant, as well as i., k. and m. on the same day, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant of minor hooliganism (article 20.1 of the cao) and sentenced him to five days of detention. access to a toilet (which was apparently outside the cell) was available every four hours (or sometimes every eight hours). the applicant was then taken back to the detention centre and was released at around 11.30 p.m. 30. this application was lodged on 5 september 2014 by aleksey olegovich dragomirov, who was born in 1980 and lives in roslavl in the smolensk region, russia. according to a written report by officer s., at 2.45 p.m. on 9 june 2008 he arrested the applicant for being drunk and looking untidy in a public place, and took him to the police station where he then remained until he sobered up. on the same day, referring to s.’s report, a medical report (the contents of which are not clear) and an arrest record, the justice of the peace convicted the applicant of an administrative offence under article 20.21 of the cao on account of being drunk in a public place at 2.45 p.m. on 9 june 2008 while having an untidy appearance, thus offending human dignity and public morals. the applicant started to serve his sentence on 10 june 2008. he was then taken to the police station and subjected to the measure of administrative arrest. on 24 april 2014 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment. the justice of the peace had dismissed as unsubstantiated his argument that as a military officer, he could not be sentenced to administrative detention. in his statement of appeal he mentioned that he had had difficulties with legal assistance since no law firms would be open on a sunday.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in moscow. on the same day the case was transferred to the timiryazevskiy district court of moscow. on 29 june 2010 the timiryazevskiy district court ordered an expert psychological examination and adjourned the proceedings. on 15 july 2010 the childcare authority rejected the application, referring to the interim measure imposed by the timiryazevskiy district court. during the hearing of 24 december 2010 the applicant lodged an objection against the judge of the timiryazevskiy district court, submitting that she (that is to say the judge) had stated on several occasions that she would rule against the applicant because according to the established practice of the timiryazevskiy district court a residence order was always made in favour of the mother. on 26 january 2011 the mytishchi city court upheld ch. on 30 march 2011 the timiryazevskiy district court granted the divorce of the applicant and ch. a. was very attached to his father and obviously suffered from their forced separation. the alleged defects in her character and behaviour to which the applicant had referred had been confirmed by his relatives only. the following documents were submitted by the parties for the court’s examination: (i)  the applicant’s and ch. ’s application for a residence order in her favour and dismissed a similar application by the applicant. according to the expert report, the child is equally attached to both of them. there is an accumulation of reasons on the basis of which the court considers that the child should live with the mother. given his age, a change of residence and a separation from the mother will have a negative impact on the child’s general and psychological state. was preventing the applicant and his family –namely his mother, brother and sister – from seeing a. it held that a. was entitled to maintain contact with his father and his paternal family and determined the contact schedule as follows.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in nizhnevartovsk, in the khanty-mansiyisk region. at the material time the applicant leased a flat in a block of flats in noyabrsk (a town in the yamalo-nenetskiy region). two police officers arrived at 6 a.m. and took the applicant to the noyabrsk police station (“the police station”). according to the applicant, he was released on 16 february 2006 at about 11 p.m. and summoned to appear before the investigator the next day at 2 p.m. the applicant alleges that he was under the constant supervision of police officers between 6 a.m. and 11 p.m. on 16 february 2006 and was not allowed to leave the police station. m. the cell housed between nine and twelve inmates who took it in turns to sleep. the overcrowding caused a lot of conflict and tension between the inmates. the drains in the shower room did not work, and the water temperature was not adjustable. it was cold in winter (there was a maximum temperature of 6˚c) and hot in summer (a maximum temperature of 45˚c). the detainees were provided with neither bedding nor items of personal hygiene. inmates were not provided with newspapers, reading material, or any information concerning their rights. the applicant was held in a cell with persistent offenders and ill persons. the dining room in the dormitory measured 32 sq. just before the applicant’s release, four extra shower heads were installed, but the time for washing was reduced to ten minutes. on 30 august 2010 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 23 july 2010. he complained in particular that he had not been allowed to personally address the court, despite a request he had made to this effect, and he asked the appeal court to arrange for him to attend the appeal hearing.
the applicants are ms zita bistieva, who was born in 1976, and her three minor children, who were born in 2006, 2008 and 2013, respectively. applied for asylum for himself and his family. on 9 january 2014 ms bistieva and her three children were sent back to poland. in january and february 2014, 70 migrants were held there. that number included 13 men, 19 women and 38 minors. the centre was surrounded with a high wall or fence with a single barbed wire on top. unlike in all other guarded centres, the bars allowed for windows to be opened sufficiently wide. many staff members spoke russian, they were closely supervised by the governor, who regularly talked to the migrants. the premises were clean and adapted to children. the classes were organised every day and, in early 2014, lasted from one hour to one hour and a half. the domestic court relied on the fact that the 2013 expulsion decision was enforceable despite ms bistieva’s renewed asylum application and that the identification of the family members was being carried out by the polish authorities. regional court (sąd okręgowy) upheld the decision of 9 january 2014. on 19 february 2014 the head of the aliens office decided not to grant the application to stay the enforcement of the 2013 expulsion decision. the domestic court held that section 107 of the 2003 aliens act had not been breached by the fact that the youngest child had been detained along with ms bistieva and the rest of the family even though his own expulsion had not been authorised by the governor. on 29 june 2014 the applicants were released.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in stavropol. the two men made an oral agreement with the company to pay 55,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 2,000 euros (eur)) in cash immediately upon receipt of the sugar. in the amounts of 1.5 tonnes and 3.5 tonnes respectively. the investigator acknowledged mr p. and mr pr. as witnesses in the case and, without formally attaching the sugar, left it with them for safe storage. and to deposit it with a neutral person for safe storage. by a decision of 22 february 2002 the investigator, mr s., declared mr v., who acted as a representative of the akvilon company, a civil claimant in the criminal case. in late 2002 the criminal case was transferred to another investigator. the decisions stated that the investigation had established that, despite their written undertakings to store the sugar, mr p. and mr pr. it is unclear what happened to the sugar thereafter. the two men had then delivered the stipulated amount in cash to a certain ms ya., the judgment was not appealed against, and no enforcement proceedings were ever instituted. in letters sent to the applicant in the period of 2002-04, the nevinnomyssk prosecutor’s office and the main investigating division of the department of the interior of the stavropol region stated, inter alia, that the investigator, mr s., had indeed breached certain requirements of the criminal procedure legislation. between april and july 2004 the nevinnomyssk prosecutor’s office took a number of similar decisions to dispense with criminal proceedings against mr s. they stated, in essence, that although formally there were elements of an offence punishable under article 293 of the russian criminal code (professional negligence) in mr s.’s actions, that article provided for criminal liability only if the damage caused by such negligence attained a minimum of rub 100,000, whereas the pecuniary damage alleged by akvilon had been lower than that amount. on 19 may 2005 the supreme commercial court of russia refused leave to apply for a supervisory review of the case.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in sovetskaya gavan, khabarovsk region. on 22 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and brought to the khabarovsk administrative detention centre where he stayed until 27 november 2009. 9 designed for 12 persons and had to take turns to sleep. a month after he had been transferred to another cell with the area of 6 square meters which he had shared with another inmate. the detention centre had no shower facilities or a place for outdoor walks. the applicant’s cell was cold and damp, iron banks were not covered by mattresses. toilets were not separated from the living area, and the persons using them were in full view of others. food supply was inadequate, the applicant was served meals only once a day and had no drinking water from within the cell. 5 with the area of 14.6 square meters for 3 inmates and no. there was no overcrowding; the toilet had been separate by a shoulder length fence. the detainees may take a shower once a week. on 26 october 2009 the applicant’s wife, mrs liu, sought to visit the applicant but was refused. on 6 and 10 november 2009 the applicant’s wife filed complaints with the khabarovsk prosecutor’s office stating that she had not been allowed to see the applicant. on 9 february 2011 the industrialnyy district court of khabarovsk dismissed his claim. 605 dsp (“the rules”) did not make provision for family visits, and that the applicant’s right to family life had not been breached as he had met his wife during court hearings.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in moscow. following their separation in november 2010, the applicant and e. agreed that i. would live with the applicant and e. would visit him regularly. bearing in mind the best interests of [i.], [the childcare authority of grozny] considers that a residence order in respect of [i.] in favour of his father [e.] would not be contrary to the child’s interests and would not hinder his contact with the mother.” e. had financially supported them and had visited them regularly. on 17 april 2014 the district court dismissed the applicant’s application for a residence order in her favour. the plenary ruling stresses, in particular, that the better financial or living conditions of one of the parents cannot, in themselves, constitute a decisive reason for granting this parent’s application for a residence order in his [or her] favour. her elder daughter was healthy and self-reliant and did not require any special attention. her daughter would therefore not hinder her ability to take care of i.; on the contrary, she was of great help. his medical condition was not an obstacle to his attending a pre-school. neither her working schedule nor that of e. had been examined. lastly, the applicant complained that e. was preventing her from seeing her son. that fact had been confirmed by the childcare authorities’ representative at the hearing, who had recounted e.’s assertions that he would not allow any contact between i. and his mother. by a letter of 12 september 2014, the head of the childcare authority of grozny informed the applicant that the childcare official who had issued the report of 15 april 2014 had been disciplined. on 31 july 2015 the town court granted her application. on 24 november 2015 the town court issued a writ of execution.
the bektashi order has existed and practised its religion in the respondent state for many centuries. according to the applicant association, on 16 september 1997 it forwarded to the commission all the documents obtained from the ministry save for the certificate, which had never been issued. it came into operation on 1 may 2008 (section 36). all religious organisations registered by the commission up until 1998 could retain their existing legal personality and status. on 2 october 2009 the registration court dismissed the applicant association’s request. on 30 november 2010 the registration court requested further documents to complete the application. the applicant association appealed against this decision and asked the court of appeal to hold a public hearing. on 27 may 2011 the registration court again refused to register the applicant association as its intended name contained the term “bektashi”, which had already been used by another religious entity, namely the “ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia” registered in the court register on 10 september 2010. as to the doctrinal sources as described by the applicant association, the court stated as follows:“... [they consist of] the islamic religion and the teaching of the holy koran, which is supplemented and interpreted by the knowledge and practices of prophet mohamed and imam ali, the holy ehlibeyt (the prophet’s family) and the holy journey of haji bektash veli ... it is about the sources of the islamic religion, for which there is already a registered religious community ... whose teaching includes the koran and the practices of mohamed aleyhisselam. as regards the doctrinal sources, it argued that they could not be regarded as official insignia within the meaning of section 10(1) of the 2007 act. they were of an ideological nature and were not constant, nor could they be interpreted in that way. official insignia concerned symbols (crosses, crescents, graphic symbols), a flag or a totem that represented something. in this connection, it stated that the interpretation which the court had given regarding its doctrinal sources, namely that they were identical to the doctrinal sources of all islamic teaching, was wrong. on 20 february 2012 the applicant association and the second applicant (and two other individuals) lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court complaining that they had been discriminated against contrary to article 110 § 3 of the constitution. the court then referred to the grounds on which the registration court had based its decision and stated as follows:“... the [registration] court refused to register the [applicant association] on two grounds: (1) the intended name of the [applicant association] contained the term ‘bektashi’ which had been incorporated into the name of an already registered religious entity, the ‘ehlibeyt bektashi religious group of macedonia’ ... and (2) its doctrinal sources were the same as the doctrinal sources of an already registered religious entity, the islamic religious community.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in dubrovnik. the doctor’s report of the examination was forwarded to the police. the applicant had resisted arrest and they had had to apply force in order to bring him to the police station. had applied the “elbow-lock” technique and leaned him forwards in order to restrain him. on the same day a shift manager of the criminal police department noted in a report that the applicant had actively resisted arrest and that s.d., the applicant signed the report and stated that he did not have any objections to the procedure that had been followed. on the same day the police lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant under a reasonable suspicion of drug abuse. lastly, the applicant stated that he had been arrested the day before at 5 p.m. and that apart from the use of force during his arrest he did not have any objections about the police conduct during his stay in the police station. on 3 december 2010 the applicant hired a lawyer, d.p., he asked to give his defence at the end of the trial. he alleged that after he had been brought to the police station he had been physically and psychologically ill-treated and had been coerced to into giving such a statement to the investigating judge. when asked by the prosecutor, the applicant explained that during his arrest and transportation to the police station the police officers had used force against him and had beaten him. in a closing statement the applicant’s lawyer asked the trial court to take into account, when determining the applicant’s sentence, the fact that he had confessed to his crime. he should have been given a milder sanction. he complained that during his stay in the police station he had asked for a lawyer and that his sister and father had hired d.h.
the first applicant was born in 1950 and lives in warsaw. on 18 february 1993 the warsaw regional prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the warsaw regional court. he stated that, owing to a lack of judges and the volume of work in the 8th division, there were no judges who could examine the case in question swiftly. requested that the board of the regional court transfer him back to the 9th appellate division. it appears from the case file that the second applicant moved to the united states of america on an unspecified date. consequently, in order to allow an appeal based on a relative ground, an appellate court had to establish, at least, a hypothetical link between the alleged procedural violation and the content of the judgment within the meaning of article 438 § 2 of the ccp. it discontinued the part of the proceedings concerning the quashed convictions. however, a judge was prevented from participating in parliamentary work on criminal law codification as an advisor chosen by an mp, parliamentary group or a political party. in the appellate court’s view, the applicants had rightly pointed out that by accepting the role of advisor to the proponents of the bill amending the criminal code (extending limitation periods) judge a.k. in the supreme court’s view, an analysis of the statement did not permit the conclusion that judge a.k. in that connection, the court noted that the bill had been introduced on 21 february 2005 and that only from that moment in time could one talk about his alleged involvement in the process. with regard to the constitutionality of the 2005 amendment related to the shortcomings of the legislative process, the supreme court concurred with the court of appeal that the conduct of that process indicated that the impugned legislation had been adopted with a view to influencing the outcome of a particular case. for that reason, the supreme court quashed the part of the court of appeal’s judgment concerning the discontinuation of the proceedings against the second applicant (point vi.2 of the operative provisions of the trial court’s judgment) and remitted that part of the case to it. unfortunately, we have succeeded in creating a belief among criminals that they can go unpunished. the facts are that, firstly, judge [a.k.]
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in st petersburg. on 4 june 2010 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of robbery committed in an organised group. on 4 august 2010 the district court extended the applicant’s detention until 24 august 2010[1]. on 24 august 2010 the applicant’s lawyer asked the district court to adjourn the hearing until 25 august 2010 so as to enable her to review the prosecution material and discuss her position with the applicant. besides, all these documents had been examined in the hearing on 24 august 2010. however, they had refused to communicate in such conditions. on 22 february 2011 the applicant’s lawyer did not appear for the hearing. legal aid counsel was appointed for the applicant. as regards the applicant’s complaint regarding the alleged violation of his right to defence by the refusal to adjourn the hearing of 22 february 2011, the city court held that the applicant’s lawyer had failed to prove her sickness by providing a medical certificate. both the applicant and his lawyer participated in the appeal hearing, the applicant by means of a video link from the remand prison. on 30 may 2011 the district court further extended the applicant’s detention until 24 august 2011 pending examination of the case file. the judgment became final on 23 july 2013. m, was equipped with eight sleeping places and accommodated up to ten inmates, and cell 145, measuring 18 sq. m, was designed for eight people and housed up to ten individuals. as mentioned above, on 6 april and 28 june 2011 respectively the city court examined the applicant’s appeals against the decisions of the district court of 22 february and 30 may 2011 extending his detention.
the applicants were born in 1984 and 1979 respectively and live in moscow. on 17 december 2012 the official daily newspaper rossiyskaya gazeta announced that the second reading was scheduled for 19 december 2012. the format of solo “pickets” was chosen because there was no longer time to observe the minimum statutory three‑day notification period for other types of (group) events. 57818/09 and 14 others, §§ 206-15, 7 february 2017). at 10.30 a.m. the police drew up a record of the administrative escorting (протокол административного доставления) in respect of each applicant. the first applicant was released at 1.20 p.m. the second applicant was released at 1.10 p.m. 12. he had not complied with the police order to stop picketing. on 6 february 2013 the justice of the peace of the 369th court circuit of the tverskoy district of moscow found the first applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced him to a fine of rub 20,000 (about eur 495 at the time), with the reasoning identical to that in the judgment of 15 january 2013. the justice of the peace also relied on police reports and testimony of a police officer who had apprehended the first applicant at the venue of the public event. both applicants appealed, insisting that each of them had held a solo demonstration which did not require prior notification of the authorities. the first applicant also pointed out that he had been arrested earlier than indicated in the arrest record. on 13 february and 11 march 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgments concerning the second and the first applicant respectively. on 28 june 2013 the deputy president of the moscow city court partly allowed his complaint and changed the classification of the administrative charge against him. the second applicant was found guilty of the breach of the established procedure for the conduct of public events committed by a participant, an offence punishable under article 20.2 § 5 of the cao. his fine was reduced to rub 10,000 (about eur 233 at the time).
the applicant was born in chernivtsi in ukraine in 1966. a russian national, also lived in magadan for a certain period of time. subsequently, the grandparents raised k.l.s. no appeal was lodged and on 11 march 2009 the judgment entered into force. whose nationality was disputed by the parties. according to a copy of an undated letter from k.t.o., was taken into care as his mother had left him alone in her flat for over twenty-four hours. no information was submitted to the court as to whether the parents of k.o.s. she discovered that he had been placed in an orphanage and informed the applicant accordingly. the applicant decided to become her nephew’s legal tutor (a guardian for children under fourteen). in august and september 2012 the applicant made a number of telephone calls to the childcare service of chernivtsi and to the orphanage, asking them to take into account that she wished to become k.o.s. and asked it to issue an opinion in favour of the adoption. on 19 september 2012 the executive committee of chernivtsi, acting in the exercise of its childcare related functions, issued an opinion in favour of the requested adoption. they had established contact and a good relationship with the child and, according to the orphanage’s psychologist, the child wished to live in their family, although he could not give written consent as “he didn’t understand what adoption was because of his age”. was a russian national, as his biological mother had been a russian national at the time when he had been born in 2007; (iv) that the procedure provided for in ukraine’s relevant international treaties in relation to the adoption of foreign nationals had not been followed; and (v) that the pershotravnevyy court had disregarded the fact that she had informed the ukrainian childcare service of her wish to become k.o.s.
the applicants were members of the national bolsheviks party. they waved placards with “putin, resign!” (« they had locked themselves in and blocked the door with a heavy safe. hearings often continued until late in the evening. on 1, 2 and 5 september 2005 the applicants asked the court that hearings be held less frequently. nor could they have a walk in the exercise yard. finally, they did not have sufficient time for meetings with counsel or relatives. the court rejected their requests and continued to schedule hearings almost every day. police guards were stationed between the cages and the counsel tables. the applicants submitted a courtroom plan and photographs confirming that arrangement. they had come to the president’s administration to meet the officials and hand over a petition that listed the president’s ten failures to comply with the constitution and contained a call for his resignation. they denied destroying any furniture or offering resistance to the police. after the door had been forced, the witnesses had seen that the furniture in the office had been damaged. on 8 december 2005 the tverskoy district court found the applicants and their co-defendants guilty of participation in mass disorders. they also submitted that when determining the sentences the trial court had unlawfully taken into account the defendants’ respective roles in the commission of the imputed offence, given that the charges brought against them were identically phrased and that the role and actions of each defendant had not been detailed.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in lunel. the applicant, a lawyer at the montpellier bar since 1978, acted for m.b., for trial before the gard assize court on a charge of manslaughter. the trial at the assize court began on 28 september 2009 and lasted for five days. some of the coverage was streamed live on the internet. people are living in tower blocks cut off from city centres. for some, prosecution ends in conviction while others are acquitted. with a white – all-white – jury on which not all communities are represented, combined with, let’s face it, a very weak prosecution and a trial that was conducted in an extremely biased fashion, the door was wide open for an acquittal, it’s no surprise.” on 1 december 2009, after the chairman of the bar had found that the applicant’s remarks were not offensive and did not go beyond the bounds of free criticism of a court decision, the principal public prosecutor informed him of his decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the applicant under article 188 of the decree of 27 november 1991 on the organisation of the legal profession (see paragraph 29 above). on 11 january 2010 the applicant gave evidence to the rapporteur of the montpellier bar council. he added that he had not targeted the assize court, the prosecution or the defence. in parallel, in a judgment of 1 march 2010, the nîmes criminal court sentenced the other two gendarmes to a one-month suspended term of imprisonment and a fine of 1,000 euros (eur) for giving false testimony under oath. the court of appeal went on to find that, since all the members of the jury were french citizens, references to the colour of their skin did not relate to their social background or nationality but rather to their racial background. in the court of appeal’s view, the remarks did not form part of the exercise of the rights of the defence, in the absence of any mention of the possibilities of appeal against the decision of the assize court. “ secondly, having stated explicitly that, outside the courtroom, lawyers were not protected by the immunity conferred by section 41 of the law of 29 july 1881, the court of appeal found that the impugned remarks had racial connotations casting aspersions and suspicion on the integrity of the jurors and thus amounted to a breach of the duties of moderation and discretion.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in baku. the applicant is a well-known civil society activist and human rights defender. following numerous attempts to acquire status as a legal entity under domestic law, the election monitoring centre was finally registered by the ministry of justice on 1 february 2008. however, a few months later, in may 2008, the domestic courts ordered its dissolution at the request of the same ministry. the domestic proceedings relating to the registration and dissolution of the election monitoring centre are the subject of an application pending before the court (see application no. the applicant has been involved in the preparation of various reports relating to the organisation of elections and general human rights situation in azerbaijan. on 16 december 2013 the applicant was arrested and charged under articles 192.2.2 (illegal entrepreneurship), 213.1 (large-scale tax evasion) and 308.2 (abuse of power) of the criminal code. the prosecutor justified his request by citing the gravity of the charges against the applicant, the fact that he did not live at the address where he was officially registered as a resident, and that there was a risk of his absconding from the investigation and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings. on 26 december 2013 the applicant appealed against this decision, reiterating his previous complaints. on 30 december 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal and upheld the nasimi district court’s decision of 25 december 2013, relying essentially on the same reasoning. on 7 march 2014 the applicant appealed against this decision. in support of his request, he reiterated his previous arguments. in the meantime, on 5 april 2014 the applicant’s case was sent to the baku court of serious crimes for trial. they stated that they had met him on several occasions during their fact-finding visits to baku and at the parliamentary assembly in strasbourg, pointing out that “this decision on pre-trial detention may raise suspicions about politically-motivated justice which we denounced in our recent report on the honouring of obligations and commitments by azerbaijan”. all charges brought against them should be dropped and mr.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in glyka nera. no other ngo shares the monitor’s position. the prosecutor also added that greek helsinki monitor had used the same expression, that is to say it had described statements included in reports prepared by the greek government as “false”, in various press releases, in a much more heated tone. the new hearing date before the three-member athens magistrates’ court was set for 18 september 2008. on 28 november 2008 the operative part of the judgment was corrected and on 6 april 2009, the case file was transmitted to the prosecution service at the athens court of appeal, marked as extremely urgent. the new hearing date was set for 13 may 2009. had been elected as a deputy in the parliamentary elections of 4 october 2009. as the acts for which she was accused had not taken place in the course of her parliamentary activities. in respect of article 62 of the constitution and the applicant’s objection, the domestic court held the following:“... in addition, since parliament has not granted leave, the prosecution is declared inadmissible if it concerns an offence committed when the defendant was a member of parliament. that is because the prosecutable offence (slander for an interview that the defendant gave to a newspaper in her capacity as general secretary for gender equality of the ministry of interior, public administration and decentralisation) clearly does not concern a private dispute; it should be examined if it relates and is linked to the political activity of the defendant-deputy and in general to the exercise of her parliamentary duties. on 12 january 2011 the plenary of the greek parliament dismissed the request for leave to continue the criminal proceedings. on 16 july 2012 the head of the general directorate of human resources of the greek parliament notified the ministry of justice that e.t. on 26 october 2012 the court of appeal published judgment no. was accused had become time‑barred as more than forty-two months had passed since its alleged commission. it consequently ended the criminal prosecution.
he is currently serving a life sentence in dnipro. by the final domestic judgment of 16 july 2002, the applicant was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and other crimes. guk, a former applicant to the court, with whom he had shared the cell for three years. the cell lacked basic amenities: no furniture for storage of personal belongings and food; a very small table; no rubbish container; and no toilet cleaners. according to the government, the equipment in the applicant’s cell corresponded to the domestic standards. prisoners were provided with all necessary amenities. according to the applicant, the washing unit in the colony had no changing facilities, so the prisoners had first to undress in their cells. until april 2005 the prisoners had been required to roll up their mattresses in the morning. during the daytime they had been prohibited from lying down on the beds. mattresses on the beds had to be rolled up during the daytime. in 2004-2006 family visits had not been adequately organised. the applicant’s correspondence with relatives had been reviewed and a number of his letters had disappeared. when escorted out of the cell, they were handcuffed, but not required to walk in a squat or with the head covered with a bag; handcuffs were in a proper condition and their disinfection was not required. searches were conducted pursuant to the relevant regulations, and there were no situations alleged by the applicant. prisoners were not prohibited to use mattresses during the daytime.
the applicants were born in 1955 and 1962, respectively, and live in baku and absheron, respectively. the transcript of the meeting, which was one page long, reads as follows:“after giving the information about annagi hajibeyli [the first applicant] to the members of the presidium, a.t. moreover, numerous persons, who were entitled to be co-founders of the aba, were unlawfully not allowed to attend the constituent assembly. unfortunately, azerbaijani law allows for the creation of only one bar association. mr aliyev, you brought an action in court against the aba. [the second applicant]: i am still of the same opinion. i have a great respect for mr aliyev as a person and lawyer. [the second applicant]: whom have i insulted? in your law, the right of legal counsels to bring an action against the aba is provided for. you are a legal counsel; how can you speak like that? on 21 february 2006 the first applicant brought an action in the nasimi district court alleging that the presidium’s decision of 27 january 2006 had been unlawful. in particular, he pointed out that he had not been admitted to the aba because of his statements and articles about the poor state of the legal profession in the country. in support of his appeal, the second applicant relied on the document entitled “extract from the record of meeting no. 27 dated 19 november 2005 of the presidium” (see paragraph 14 above) and the annex thereto. the files relating to the present two applications were also seized in their entirety.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in apeldoorn. it sentenced him to a partially suspended term of 40 months’ imprisonment. both the applicant and the prosecution appealed against the regional court’s judgment. in his advisory opinion of 10 december 2013, the advocate general (advocaat-generaal) to the supreme court expressed his view that the applicant’s appeal should be dismissed with the exception of the first of the grounds of the appeal, which pertained to the length of the proceedings: the duration of the cassation proceedings had exceeded a reasonable time within the meaning of article 6 § 1 of the convention, for which a reduction of sentence was to be applied. the advocate general thus concluded that the applicant’s complaint in this matter should be dismissed. on 4 march 2014 the supreme court gave its judgment, which read:“[the applicant’s counsel] have submitted written grounds of appeal. the advocate general [...] has advised that the impugned judgment be quashed − but only as regards the prison sentence imposed, reducing it due to the violation of the right to adjudication within a reasonable time − and that the remainder of the appeal be dismissed. section 80a of the judiciary (organisation) act entered into force on 1 july 2012. introductionaim pursued by the billthis bill aims to strengthen the role of the cassation procedure (versterking van de cassatierechtspraak) by establishing different and new requirements for lawyers who act as representatives before the supreme court and by introducing the possibility for the supreme court to declare inadmissible a cassation appeal at the beginning of the procedure. the establishment of quality requirements for counsel is aimed at ensuring that cassation appeals are accompanied by statements of grounds of appeal that are of decent quality. however, the limits of its application are discernible. what is new is the latitude given to the supreme court to declare an appeal inadmissible on the (substantive) finding that the grounds of appeal submitted do not justify a detailed review in cassation proceedings (geen nadere beoordeling in cassatie rechtvaardigen). a judgment in which the appeal in cassation is declared inadmissible or dismissed by application of and with reference to section 80a or 81 of the judiciary (organisation) act contains an abridged reasoning of that decision. the judgment also implies that the case in question concerns one of the situations where there is no need for such referral of preliminary questions, namely when the preliminary question raised is not relevant for the resolution of the dispute or can be answered in the light of the case-law of the court of justice [of the european union] or that no reasonable doubt exists as to the manner in which the question concerning the rules of community law was to be resolved.” in the case of lucio cesare aquino v. belgische staat (c-3/16, ecli:eu:c:2017:209), the cjeu gave judgment on 15 march 2017, stating, as far as relevant to the present case:“43.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in kaunas. in october 1991 the applicant asked the authorities to establish that her father had had 7.06 hectares of land in kaunas region before nationalisation. it was indicated in her request that she and her sister would accept land in another location. it appears that the applicant and her sister agreed that the applicant had a right to have her property rights to 3.40 hectares of their father’s land restored. the applicant specified that monetary compensation should be paid in a “convertible currency at market prices”. on 22 june 2012 the kaunas regional administrative court held that the applicant had not complained about the decision of the authorities of 21 october 2009 by which her property rights to the specific plots of land had been restored (see paragraph 17 above). moreover, the applicant had claimed that she was not able to use the land, more specifically, to construct buildings on it, but she needed to have a detailed plan of the land prepared in order to start any construction on the land, which she had not done. the applicant’s claim was thus dismissed. had been provided with a plot of land of 0.06 hectares for construction of an individual home in 1992. had been allowed to purchase another plot of land of 0.0498 hectares in the absence of an auction, which had not been allowed. that conclusion was upheld by the kaunas regional court on 14 october 2013. the court stated that the national authorities had taken various steps: they had provided data about unoccupied land and had asked the applicant to decide how she wished her property rights to be restored. on 24 february 2015 the kaunas regional administrative court held that on 9 october 1991 the applicant had submitted a request to have her property rights to 7.06 hectares of her father’s land restored (see paragraph 5 above). the authorities had informed the applicant several times that her requested methods of compensation were not possible under domestic law. two plots of land had been returned to the applicant in natura in 2009.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. on the same day a single judge at the istanbul state security court made an interim order for the seizure of copies of the book. the judge considered that the passages referred to by the public prosecutor incited the use of methods of violence and terror, and thus constituted propaganda in favour of the pkk. on 14 october 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor cited a number of passages from pages 7, 19, 23, 81, 106-114, 139, 147, 152, 157-177, 203, 273, 277, 317, 321, and claimed that in those passages members of the pkk were depicted as heroes, and their acts and activities were praised. 5187) which had entered into force on 26 june 2004. on 19 october 2006 the court of cassation decided that the istanbul assize court had jurisdiction over the case and sent the case file to that court. on 29 june 2007 the istanbul assize court once again convicted the applicant as charged. the court sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine of 416 turkish liras (try). in its judgment, the court held:“on the basis of the examination of the book in its entirety, it has been observed that the book depicts the activities of members of the pkk-kadek, the terrorist organisation, and their so-called impressions of the clashes between them and members of the security forces. they did not know us as members of the pkk, and we were not established there. some people told us that they had never heard of our organisation, and they thought that we were a very good one. i had only one wish: engaging in a clash and getting in a good shot with my weapon, which i had not used, although i had had it with me for long time.’ on 2 february 2010 the court of cassation quashed the judgment. 3713 and article 75 of the criminal code.
the applicants are russian nationals who were born in 1952 and 1954 respectively and live in the town of belomorsk in the republic of karelia. on 1 december 2005 the applicants’ son, mr m. lozovoy, was killed in st petersburg. criminal proceedings were instituted against a mr o. on a charge of murder. on 18 january 2006 ms l., an investigator of the primorskiy district prosecutor’s office in st petersburg, asked the head of the primorskiy district police to identify relatives of the deceased; to establish their place of residence and to summon them to the prosecutor’s office for the purpose of granting them victim status in the criminal case. a week later the applicants’ son was buried under his full name in st petersburg. a record in a cemetery registration log indicated that the body had been unclaimed. on 30 january 2006 the investigator, having concluded that it was impossible to identify relatives of the deceased, assigned the status of victim in the criminal case to a representative of the municipal authorities. the following day police officials informed the investigator that operative measures undertaken by them to identify mr m. lozovoy’s relatives had not produced any results. on 2 february 2006 the applicants contacted ms l. and informed her of their intention to come to st petersburg to take part in the criminal proceedings. two days later they buried him in belomorsk. on 6 june 2006 the primorskiy district court found mr o. guilty of having murdered the applicants’ son and sentenced him to six years’ imprisonment. 137755; the material in the above-mentioned criminal case file contains a copy of [the applicants’ son’s] passport; and so forth). in addition, they had suffered non-pecuniary damage as they had been unaware of their son’s whereabouts for a long time and had been forced to initiate a search for him; they had been unable to properly say “goodbye” to their son and to provide him with a decent burial; they had been forced to go through a two-week bureaucratic procedure to obtain permission to exhume their son’s remains; and subsequently, after the exhumation, they had been forced to identify his disfigured remains. on 5 february 2008 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed the claim, having found that the investigator had not committed any unlawful actions and there had been no final decision by any domestic court establishing otherwise. on 20 may 2008 the moscow city court upheld the judgment, endorsing the district court’s reasoning.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in berehove. in the early hours of 22 august 2004 m. was robbed and killed in berehove, where the applicant was also living. at about 4 p.m. on 22 august 2004, according to the applicant, and from 9 until 10 a.m. on that day, according to the official record, the applicant was questioned as a suspect by the investigator in the presence of b., a lawyer. the handwritten entry in the record furthermore stated that the applicant wanted to have b. as his lawyer and that he acknowledged in full his guilt in respect of the robbery and murder. during the questioning, the applicant provided details regarding the robbery and admitted that he had hit m. in the head with a bat during the robbery but that he had done so instinctively, in self-defence. according to the government, b. was apparently busy and was not able to participate in the reconstruction. during the reconstruction, which commenced near the place where the bat used for the murder had been hidden, the applicant pointed to the exact place where the bat was; the bat was then uncovered and retained as evidence. the relevant part of the text is not visible on the copy of the record provided by the government. the applicant signed the record without indicating any objections as to its contents next to his signature. at an unspecified time on the same date st. on 23 august 2004 the investigator appointed b. to represent the applicant, and st., on 2 september 2004, and 20 and 28 january and 17 february 2005 the applicant was questioned in the presence of his defence lawyer but refused to give any evidence. on 19 january 2005 the prosecutors refused to institute a criminal investigation into the applicant’s allegation that he had been beaten up by the police, having found the police officers’ actions to be lawful. were also found guilty of robbery but acquitted of murder. he stated, in particular, that he had not been represented by the lawyer of his choice, s., on 22 and 23 august 2004, but by b., who had been appointed by the investigator against the applicant’s will.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in vigonza (padua). began engaging in obsessive behaviour and their relationship deteriorated. in december of the same year she again travelled to hungary with the baby. and pay 500 euros (eur) per month in child support. alternatively, the child should be handed to the applicant or his proxy in budapest no later than 24 september 2012. of her parental authority and, like its hungarian counterpart, ordered the immediate return of the child to italy. on 23 january 2013 a european arrest warrant was issued against k.s. ’s mother but they could not find anybody there either. on 20 march 2013 the mezőtúr district court allowed an application lodged by k.s. on 5 september 2013 the deputy court bailiff, accompanied by police officers and guardianship office staff, visited k.s. on 30 june 2014, following an appeal by k.s, that decision was quashed by the szolnok high court. was summoned as a suspect, but she failed to appear. on 23 december 2014 the padua public prosecutor lodged by means of a letter rogatory a further application for judicial assistance and requested that the padua police be authorised to assist the local judicial police with the execution of the arrest warrant. by a letter dated 13 december 2016 the italian central authority informed the applicant that the hungarian authorities were still not able to execute the return order because they had still not identified k.s. was acquitted by the mezőtúr district court.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in kranj. that information concerned the traffic data and should therefore not have been obtained without a judicial warrant. the applicant’s appeal was dismissed as unfounded. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law before the supreme court, reiterating that a dynamic ip address could not be compared to a telephone number which was not entered in a telephone directory, as a new ip address was assigned to a computer each time the user logged on. the decision was served on the applicant on 11 march 2014. the constitutional court pointed out, at the outset, that in addition to the content of communications, article 37 of the constitution also protected traffic data, that is any data processed for the transmission of communications in an electronic communications network. the most relevant parts of the constitutional court’s decision are as follows (as translated into english on the constitutional court’s website):“review of the objections regarding access to the complainant’s ip address by the swiss police 11. in accordance with this view, in decision no. up-106/05, dated 2 october 2008 (official gazette rs, no. it entails individuals’ legitimate expectation that the state will leave them alone also in their communication through modern communication channels and that they do not necessary have to defend themselves for what they do, say, write or think. if there is a suspicion of a criminal offense the police must have the ability to identify the individuals who have participated in a certain communication related to an alleged criminal offense, because the perpetrators are harder to trace due to this principle of anonymity on the internet. the question therefore is whether such expectation of privacy was legitimate. obtaining the data regarding the complainant’s dynamic ip address does not interfere with his right to communication privacy determined by the first paragraph of article 37 of the constitution taking into account all the circumstances of the case, therefore a court order was not necessary to access it. ...review of the objections regarding access to data on the user of a certain ip address 16. the complainant also challenges the standpoint of the supreme court that by its request to the service provider under the third paragraph of article 149.b of the cpa the police did not acquire traffic data, but only data regarding a particular user of a determined means of communication ... 17.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in istanbul. at the material time, the applicant was a civil servant in the metropolitan municipality of istanbul and a member of the local branch of the tümbel-sen trade union, which is affiliated to the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – the confederation of public employees’ trade unions). in april 2008 two of the largest trade unions, namely the di̇sk (devrimci i̇şçi sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of revolutionary workers’ trade unions) and the kesk (kamu emekçileri sendikaları konfederasyonu – confederation of public employees’ trade unions) announced that they were planning a large scale demonstration in istanbul for 1 may 2008 and that their members would be gathering to celebrate the labour day and to commemorate their friends who had lost their lives during the demonstrations of 1 may 1977. in may 2008 the applicant was informed that a disciplinary investigation had been initiated against him for being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 and he was asked to submit his defence submissions. the applicant explained that he had participated in a demonstration organised by his trade union on that day to celebrate international labour day. subsequently, the applicant was given a warning as a disciplinary sanction owing to his being absent without leave on 1 may 2008 pursuant to section 125 of the civil servants act (law no. on 13 may 2008 the applicant objected to the decision and requested its annulment. on 16 may 2008 the disciplinary board of the istanbul municipality dismissed the applicant’s objection, finding that the contested decision was in accordance with the law and that there were no grounds to annul it.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in istanbul. on 24 july 2002 the istanbul state security court convicted the applicant as charged. on 1 may 2003 the court of cassation, on appeal, upheld the judgment of 24 july 2002. on 23 september 2003 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court requested that the court revise its judgment of 24 july 2002 since article 169 of the former criminal code had been amended on 7 august 2003. the istanbul state security court accepted that request. 5190 of 16 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. the case against the applicant concerning the book entitled the language of life in the mountains was transferred to the istanbul assize court. on 16 august 2003 the public prosecutor attached to the istanbul state security court filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court charging the applicant with aiding and abetting the pkk under article 169 of the former criminal code on account of the publication of the book entitled 33 days in the deluge. 3713) for disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk twice, because he had published two books, and sentenced him to a total of twenty months’ imprisonment. with regard to the publication of 33 days in the deluge, the assize court considered that on pages 129, 130 and 135 the pkk and its leader, abdullah öcalan, were praised and the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation had therefore been committed. on 25 june 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of 7 december 2007, holding that the first-instance court should not have joined the two cases, since the case concerning the language of life in the mountains was a re-qualification of the applicant’s previous final conviction (uyarlama yargılaması). 3713 on account of the publication of the language of life in the mountains and sentenced him to a fine. on 3 june 2013 the court of cassation quashed the first-instance judgment. in the meantime, the istanbul assize court resumed the trial concerning the publication of 33 days in the deluge following the court of cassation’s decision of 25 june 2009. on 21 october 2009 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in novska. he submitted that he had been living at his current address in novska since 1980s, and that he had been a refugee from albania. on 2 november 1992 the ministry instructed the novska police that they had failed to provide a report concerning the applicant’s personal circumstances and information on his residence in croatia. in his interview, the applicant explained that he had albanian nationality as he had been a refugee from that country. he explained that he was a national of albania and that he had been living in croatia since 1979. he also explained that he was employed as a car mechanic. on 28 march 1995 the novska police informed the ministry that the applicant had had a registered residence in croatia since september 1993 (see paragraph 27 above). he argued that he had had a registered residence in novska since 1979 and that his personal circumstances had been well known to the novska police. he also stressed that he was in employment and that he possessed an identity card and a driving licence issued by the novska police. in these circumstances, the administrative court considered that no available evidence suggested that the applicant had had an uninterrupted registered residence in novska for a period of more than five years as required by section 8(1)(3) of the croatian citizenship act. on 13 november 2001 the applicant asked the ministry to grant him a permanent residence permit. meanwhile, the applicant obtained a note from m.r., he stressed that he had lived his whole life in novska. as he had come from kosovo to croatia, it was possible that he was considered to be a national of kosovo by the croatian authorities, but in reality he did not have citizenship of that territory. he simply wanted to regularise his status in croatia.
in 2006 the applicant moved to norway after marrying c, an iraqi national who had come to norway in 1999. she withdrew her consent to the emergency placement of a and they moved into a crisis centre. in the end, a was returned to the applicant on 24 june 2009 and they then stayed together at the crisis centre. on 17 july 2009 the applicant and a moved back in with c. the child welfare authorities closed the case, but reopened it after the applicant’s lawyer raised concerns (“bekymringsmelding”) and stated that mother and child still had great need of the authorities’ help. c was very upset and angry, as he claimed that he had not consented to such a visit. a specialist in child and adolescent psychology, as a private expert to observe contact sessions between the applicant and the children. among other things, the city court referred to the fact that the applicant under the hearing had made herself unavailable to her counsel, but not to c. the city court stated that the abduction risk might possibly be regarded differently when the criminal case against c had been heard by the court. on 22 october 2012 the high court rejected the appeal. there was limited updated information about the applicant’s situation at the time of the board’s decision, but it was clear that she had been granted a divorce from c. she had also passed a norwegian language course and established a small social network in g. seen in isolation, her ability to provide care thus appeared to have improved somewhat since the high court hearing. based on the presentation of evidence, the board agreed with the expert that his concerns regarding the risk had not been assuaged during the hearing before the board. when the children were younger, the applicant had repeatedly demonstrated that she was unable to protect herself and the children from c. she had moved back to c several times, despite having reported him to the police for violence against both herself and the children. she knew that she had another mother who loved her, but her strong attachment was to her foster home. the father himself stated to the police that he hired people to carry out the abduction. the police had concluded that the threat level was moderate at that time because the parents did not know the children’s whereabouts, but that this could change. the city court had based its assessment on the police’s assessment that the level of threat against the children was currently moderate, since the parents did not know their whereabouts, but that the situation could change.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in rijeka. at that time she had twenty-four years and ten months of service (radni staž) recorded in her “employment book” (radna knjižica). the medical documents from various dates show her continuous incapacity of working. she submitted a medical certificate that she had been ill and thus temporarily incapable of working. she was to receive hrk 441 (about eur 59) per month. in december 1997 two additional pensionable years of service (staž osiguranja) were entered into the applicant’s employment book. such contributions are regularly paid by employers. on 3 april 2001 the rijeka employment bureau established that the applicant was to repay it the amount of hrk 19,451.69 (about eur 2,600). she claimed that she had twenty-seven years of service, and as such was entitled to unemployment benefits until she was next employed or until she retired. on 14 april 2009 the applicant lodged an application with the rijeka employment bureau, seeking to overturn its 27 march 2001 decision to terminate her entitlement to unemployment benefits. it was dismissed on 29 june 2009 and this decision was upheld on appeal on 10 july 2009 as well as by the high administrative court on 5 july 2012. it also allowed the rijeka employment bureau’s appeal and, relying on section 210 of the civil obligations act, reversed the first-instance judgment in respect of the unjust enrichment claim, and ordered the applicant to pay hrk 19,451.69 plus statutory interest running form 3 august 2005 (the date of lodging the claim against the applicant) to the rijeka employment bureau. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint against that decision. by a conclusion (zaključak) of 30 september 2013 the rijeka municipal court informed the rijeka employment bureau about the financial agency’s letter and ordered it to give the court information about the applicant’s bank account or make a further proposal. the enforcement proceedings are still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in łomża. on 7 august 2010 the applicant had a motorcycle accident in which he broke his right arm and right thigh. between 13 and 22 december 2010 the applicant underwent an arthroscopy on his right knee. between 25 january and 15 february 2011 the applicant underwent rehabilitation treatment in łomża regional hospital and during this stay no dysfunction was diagnosed in his right foot. while in prison, he was examined three times (on 1 and 18 april and on 13 may 2011) by an orthopaedist, who observed that the applicant required physical therapy in the light of a limitation of his knee-joint movement, the atrophy of a thigh muscle, and an injury to a peroneal nerve. he requested 200,000 polish zlotys (pln) in compensation, the equivalent of approximately 48,300 euros (eur). on 20 january 2014 the białystok regional court granted the applicant pln 23,000 (approximately eur 5,550) and dismissed the remainder of his action. the court held, particularly on the basis of the medical expert opinion, that the applicant had had a motorcycle accident and had required physical therapy as recommended by the prison orthopaedist. however, he had not been given any, either in prison or outside, which had resulted in a deterioration of his health. the court held that the applicant had suffered physical pain of significant seriousness, which, in turn, had had negative psychological consequences. the court therefore found the applicant’s claim for compensation for lack of adequate medical care partly justified. the court also ordered the applicant to reimburse pln 3,186 (eur 766) for the costs of the defendant’s legal representation and pln 10,932 (eur 2,628) in court fees (in total: pln 14,118 (eur 3,394)). the applicant did not lodge an appeal against the first-instance judgment. the applicant was not ordered to pay the court fees for the proceedings before that court. this court pointed out that in the experts’ opinions it was not specified, even approximately, what the effects of the negligence might be, how much longer the rehabilitation process would take, or how much stronger the pain had become in comparison to pain experienced previously by the applicant.
on an unspecified date, he contracted non‑reversible ischemia, which resulted in septic gangrene and the subsequent amputation of his right leg at the hip. on that date he was transferred to korydallos prison, where he stayed until 30 december 2013. he was subsequently transferred to larissa prison, where he remained until 25 november 2014. the applicant submitted that the conditions of his detention in omonoia police station, where he had remained for a period of twenty‑seven days, had been very poor. there had been only one shower and two floor-level toilets, one of which had not functioned. there had been no outdoor exercise or other occupational activities and, owing to the lack of space within the cell and his disability, the applicant had spent all day sitting on the cement bench. on 28 may 2013 the applicant was transferred to korydallos prison, where he was initially admitted to the prison hospital for two days. on 30 may 2013 he was discharged from the prison hospital. instead of being provided with a special bed adapted to his needs, he had had to sleep on the lower tier of a bunk bed on which he had barely been able to lie down, owing to his disability. the applicant argued that his medical situation had required him to be detained in a hospital; however, this had not been arranged, apart from the two days he had spent in the prison hospital upon his transfer to korydallos. the cell had been regularly cleaned and was intended for short-term detention only. m with plastic tables and a kitchen at the detainees’ disposal. meals had been designed with the assistance of the prison doctor and special dietary needs had been accommodated. the applicant had been provided with hygiene products, clothes, shoes and a card for making telephone calls. as regards his medical treatment, the applicant had been monitored by the prison doctors and had occasionally been transferred to larissa hospital.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in vsesvyatskaya. at the material time the applicant was a journalist at a lithuanian weekly publication. the exact number of copies of each issue is unknown. in an article headlined “‘chechen syndrome’ inside out” (“чеченский синдром навыворот”), the applicant wrote:“... most importantly, we realised with our hearts and skin that freedom is, indeed, the most precious thing that a man has, the most precious treasure, the only thing worth dying for. he went on as follows:“... in supporting chechnya at war, demonstrating our solidarity with basayev, openly supporting movsar barayev in moscow on the days of the ‘nord-ost’ [theatre siege], we crossed a line, a certain border, past which all connections to our past and the environment and people among which we had been born and grown up and lived broke down; we had trustingly considered ourselves to be part of them, until we read on a foreign, enemy website, and saw with our own eyes, all the awful details of the atrocities committed by [our] people in a tiny neighbouring mountain country. hence, the rubicon has been crossed, the choice has been made and there is no room to back off – we no longer have any other family than all peoples oppressed by ‘our’ empire, than partisans fighting to be freed from its yoke, than famous warlords like basayev and political parties which claim monetary compensation [from russia] for their occupation and return of the territories russia has annexed ...” 22. it is known from the historical perspective that those people are most of all afraid of personal responsibility, which they would not be able to shift on to their commanders who had given illegal orders. in a report of 13 april 2004 the expert stated, in particular, that the impugned texts contained negative emotional assessments of russia’s servicemen; of people of russian ethnicity; and of orthodox believers. it also examined the expert who had drawn up the report of 13 april 2004. more specifically, the district court observed that in various issues of his newsletter the applicant had represented the conflict in the chechen republic as a war between two states – chechnya and russia; had approved of terrorist attacks carried out in russia, and of the actions of criminals and terrorists aimed at the extermination of the russian people as a nation. 1 (27) (see paragraph 16 above) and in issue no. the court pointed out that another example to be followed, according to the applicant, had been actions of chechen women putting on “shaheed belts”; in the latter respect, the court quoted a relevant extract from the article “‘chechen syndrome’ inside out” (see paragraph 20 above). however, in the court’s words, “the content of the article [did] not correspond to its title, because it concern[ed] an isolated case (a statement that “jesus christ was crucified not by jews but by chechens”, contained in a booklet called “foundations of the orthodox faith”); this isolated case [was] generalised from and represented as a typical situation of orthodox believers by virtue of using the impugned heading”. 1 (27) the applicant had reproduced information concerning certain uzbek nationals held in slavery by certain russian citizens (see paragraph 18 above). the applicant further pointed out that the number of copies of the newsletter in question had been so miniscule that the statements published therein had presented no public danger.
the applicants, mr ömer yaman (first applicant), mr mustafa ürek (second applicant), and mr kerem bilen (third applicant) were born in 1956, 1967 and 1977 respectively. they were subsequently interrogated by the gendarmes in the absence of a lawyer. the first and second applicants were provided with an interpreter during their interrogation. before the public prosecutor and the judge, the applicants denied the charges against them. they further stated that they had signed their gendarmerie statements without reading them. on 2 july 1999 the public prosecutor at the diyarbakır state security court filed an indictment with that court and accused the applicants of carrying out activities for the purpose of bringing about the secession of part of the national territory, under article 125 of the criminal code. in their defence submissions before the trial court, the applicants retracted the statements they had allegedly made during the preliminary investigation stage. it further sentenced the applicants to life imprisonment. in convicting them, the court had regard to the applicants’ statements taken by the gendarmes. the case was accordingly remitted to the diyarbakır state security court. in the meantime, state security courts were abolished by law no. 5190 of 16 june 2004, and therefore, the case against the applicants was transferred to the diyarbakır assize court. at the end of the trial, the diyarbakır assize court found the applicants guilty as charged and sentenced them to life imprisonment. 5297) provided more favourable provisions for the applicants. on 25 october 2005 the diyarbakır assize court once again convicted the applicants under article 125 of the former criminal court, finding that this provision was more favourable to them than the corresponding provision of the new criminal code.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in oslo, norway. on 26 april 2000 criminal proceedings were brought against the applicant and one other person in connection with a traffic accident which had resulted in death of a child. on 25 february 2003 the court of first instance in podgorica convicted the applicant for endangering public traffic and sentenced him and his co-accused to one year and six months’ imprisonment. on an unspecified date in 2006 the high court in podgorica quashed this judgment and remitted case back to the court of first instance. on 18 april 2007 the court of first instance adopted a new judgment and again convicted the applicant and his co-accused. but the court reduced the sentence to one year and four months’ imprisonment. on 13 november 2009 the high court further reduced the sentence of the applicant’s co-accused, but upheld the judgment of the court of first instance in respect of the applicant. the applicant’s subsequent appeal against the judgment of the high court was rejected on 14 june 2010. following that rejection, on an unspecified date in 2010, the applicant lodged a further appeal on points of law (zahtjev za ispitivanje zakonitosti pravosnažne presude) with the supreme court. on 26 october 2010 the supreme court rejected this appeal. on 11 december 2010 the applicant lodged an action for fair redress (tužba za pravično zadovoljenje) with the supreme court, complaining about the overall length of criminal proceedings. on 19 april 2013 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s ultimate appeal.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in 1967 in the tajikistan soviet socialist republic of the soviet union and came to russia in 1993. on 31 july 2014 the applicant was arrested for vagrancy. on an unspecified date the applicant was fingerprinted. it was discovered that he had been registered in the police database under a different name. on 11 february 2015 the federal migration service used that name to request a laissez-passer from the embassy of tajikistan. on 28 july 2016 the governor of the detention centre asked the kalininskiy district court to discontinue the enforcement of the judgment on the ground that the two-year limitation period in respect of the applicant’s offence had expired. on 29 july 2016 the district court granted the application. the applicant was released on 13 august 2016. between october 2014 and february 2015 he was also held in a smaller cell (cell 514, 13 sq. m, two beds) and a larger cell (cell 315, 40.2 sq. the steel door with a peephole and a hatch for serving food remained under lock at all times and he was not allowed to leave the cell, except for short and infrequent outdoor exercise. for the first two months, he had been alone in that cell. the applicant complained about dim lighting, poor quality of food, insufficient outdoor exercise in cramped conditions, a lack of medical assistance and a shortage of meaningful activities. the government disputed the applicant’s allegations and submitted copies of contracts with the catering, cleaning and laundering companies and a copy of visitors’ register from the medical unit.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lived in nizhniy novgorod. on 22 june 2004 the applicant was taken from sizo-1 to the police station. he stated that as a result of the violence he had confessed to a crime which he had never committed in a “statement of surrender and confession” which had been dictated to him by the police officers and s. 18. on the same day the applicant, who had received no response to his previous complaint, lodged another complaint with the head of the remand centre stating that he had been beaten up at the police station on 28 june 2004, as a result of which he had sustained contusions to his ribcage and abrasions. on 14 july 2004 s. ordered that the applicant be transferred to a unit functioning as a remand centre at ik-14 for the same reasons as those stated in the police report (see paragraph 22 above). he was allowed short-term visits from his wife on 13 august and 24 september 2004. on repeated occasions he was called for interviews by officers from the orb police unit. after the interviews the applicant was unable to move on his own and had fresh injuries, notably abrasions and bruises on his face. on one occasion three convicts, v., b. and z., took him to a storage room. at one of the court hearings for the extension of his detention he complained of severe back pain. and s. denying any ill‑treatment of the applicant. on 8 april 2005 a deputy prosecutor from the sukhobezvodnenskaya prosecutor’s office, which supervised law observance in penal facilities, refused to institute criminal proceedings into the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment in ik-14, pursuant to article 24 § 1 (1) of code of criminal procedure for lack of evidence that a crime had been committed. the day after his arrival the applicant had been admitted to the medical unit with complaints of pain in his back and leg. had learnt from the applicant that the visitors had been the police. it noted that the disputed records had been signed by a lawyer and contained information about the applicant’s procedural rights.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in bukhara, uzbekistan. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in 2003 his father, mother, brother and sister moved to vladivostok in russia and subsequently acquired russian nationality, while he continued to live with his grandfather in bukhara, visiting them in the summer months. after his grandfather had died and the applicant had finished the secondary school, in june 2011 he joined his family in russia. the applicant took a mandatory blood test with a view to obtaining a health certificate to support his application for a temporary residence permit. on 23 september 2011 the consumer protection authority declared the applicant’s presence in russian undesirable (the “exclusion order”) on the ground that he was hiv-positive. by judgment of 19 december 2011, the sovetskiy district court in vladivostok rejected the applicant’s challenge to the exclusion order, finding that it was issued in full compliance with russian law. on 13 february 2012 the primorskiy regional court upheld the judgment on appeal. on 22 february 2012 the applicant left russia to comply with the exclusion order.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in opaci. on 29 july 2009, the applicant was celebrating his birthday with a group of friends by a lake when they were attacked by s. who was intoxicated and carrying a hunting rifle. s. was angry because the applicant and his friends had allegedly ill-treated his uncle earlier. the applicant attempted to prevent s. from continuing shooting but was shot from a distance of some five metres into his right calf. on 31 july 2009 criminal proceedings were instituted against s. on charges of hooliganism with the use of a firearm resulting in the causing of severe harm to the applicant’s health. between 1 and 10 august 2009 twenty-five witnesses were questioned and by 12 september 2009 most of the investigative measures were completed. on 12 august 2009 s. was declared a suspect in the criminal proceedings and on 29 december 2009 he was indicted. on 12 january 2010 s. was heard as an accused. he acknowledged his guilt, but refused to make any declarations. between march and december 2010 the anenii noi police conducted a new investigation into the circumstances of the case and carried out again all the investigative measures. on 30 december 2010 the prosecutor’s office decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings against s. the prosecutor’s office found that according to article 63(2) of the code of criminal procedure, a person’s status as suspect cannot be maintained longer than three months. since s. was indicted on 29 december 2009, that is four months and seventeen days later, the indictment was unlawful. therefore, all charges against s. were dropped and the proceedings discontinued. on 31 march 2011 the rascani district court upheld s.’s objection against the prosecutor’s decision of 18 february 2011, ordering its annulment. the applicant and his representative were not summoned or informed about the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in istanbul. he and a woman in the hotel were both taken to the gendarmerie headquarters. on 4 october 2004 the applicant gave statements to the gendarmerie. he denied having provided premises for prostitution. on 30 may 2005 the büyükçekmece public prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant and three other persons. on 1 june 2005 the misdemeanours act (law no. 5326) and the new code of criminal procedure (law no. it then sentenced him to an administrative fine of 100 turkish liras (try)[1] pursuant to section 32 of the misdemeanours act (law no. it was indicated on the envelope that the applicant was invited to a hearing concerning his case, which would be held on 10 july 2006. the envelope did not show any confirmation that the letter had been served on him. in support of his claim, he submitted a copy of the assize court’s decision, on which a lawyer working at his office had noted that he had been served with the copy in person on that date. following communication of the present application, on 21 december 2009 a public prosecutor prepared an assessment report, summarising the events in the case. the parties did not respond to that request. on 3 november 2017 the government were once again asked to provide documents regarding the commencement of the six-month time‑limit, in particular the content of the envelope from the büyükçekmece magistrates’ court dated 24 may 2006 and the document in support of the public prosecutor’s claim that the final decision had been served on the applicant on 26 may 2006. on 30 november 2017 the government informed the court that they could not find the requested documents.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in kaliningrad. he lapsed into a coma a week later, and died on 1 february 2007. on the third blow the bat had struck a wall and had broken into two pieces. on 14 march 2007 v. was charged with homicide committed as a result of exceeding the limits of necessary self-defence (article 108 § 1 of the criminal code). on 19 march 2007 two fragments of the baseball bat were seized and examined by the investigator. during her additional questioning as a victim on 7 april 2007 she stated that her son had told her that he had been beaten by police officers from the moskovskiy district department of the interior of kaliningrad (овд московского района г. the decision was not supported by reference to any evidence. who knew nothing about the events in question;-  statements by witness gor., in the meantime, the applicant repeatedly challenged the adequacy of the investigation alleging the involvement of police officers in the death of her son. on 16 december 2008 the applicant’s son’s clothes were seized from the applicant for expert examination. the examination established that the open blunt traumatic brain injury inflicted on the applicant’s son had been caused by at least five traumatic impacts, and that it could have arisen in the circumstances indicated by the accused v. during his questioning on 7 march 2007 and the on-site verification of his testimony on 6 april 2007 (see paragraphs 11 and 16 above) (report no. on 5 december 2012 the acting head for the moskovskiy district of the kaliningrad investigative division took the decision to resume the proceedings in view of the necessity of conducting psycho-physiological expert examinations − using a polygraph − of the police officers who had brought the applicant’s son to the police station so as to verify the veracity of their statements. according to information contained in the case file, the proceedings were still pending in december 2012. on 26 september 2008 the district court found the above decision unlawful. on 31 march 2009 the tsentralniy district court of kaliningrad dismissed the applicant’s claims.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. on 8 march 2002 the applicant was arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation. on 9 march 2002 the applicant’s statements were taken by the police in the absence of a lawyer. on 18 march 2002 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed an indictment accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal terrorist organisation under article 168 of the former criminal code. at a hearing held on 31 may 2002, the applicant gave evidence in person in the presence of her lawyer. she stated that she had left turkey through her own means and that she went to romania, bulgaria, greece and iran with the help of the people whose names she could not remember anymore. she further stated that she had stayed in camps in greece and iran. while she was at the camp in iran she was not involved in many activities owing to her young age. she further maintained that she had wanted to return to turkey due to her health condition and for family reasons. while the applicant was staying at her elder sister’s house, she was arrested by the police. lastly, she stated that she had been called the code name “ariel” at the camp in iran. when asked about her statements to the public prosecutor, she denied them except for the parts concerning her travel. when asked about her statements to the investigating judge, she denied them claiming once again that the police had put pressure on her. on 16 april 2008, relying on, inter alia, the applicant’s statements to the police, the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant under article 314 § 2 of the new turkish criminal code and sentenced her to six years and three months’ imprisonment. on 23 december 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the istanbul assize court.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in perm. перми – “the police station”) for an identity check. subsequently the applicant was interrogated by an investigator, b., in the presence of n. (the head of the police station), p., and zh. ( another police officer), as a witness in criminal case no. 1470 instituted on 8 march 2007 under article 161 § 2 of the criminal code (robbery). after his questioning the applicant was released. immediately after his release on 10 april 2007 the applicant complained at the police station of having been beaten by p. 11. on the same day the applicant went to a traumatology centre, where he was diagnosed with bruising on the left side of his forehead. on 27 june 2007 the applicant challenged the above-mentioned decision before the court. on 2 july 2007 the dzerzhinskiy district court of perm (“the district court”) declined to examine the applicant’s challenge. on 24 august 2007 the district court held that the decision of 9 june 2007 not to institute criminal proceedings against p. had been unlawful and unjustified. had been diagnosed as having such injuries immediately after his release from the police station. on 13 november 2007 the regional court quashed the judgment of 9 october 2007 on appeal and remitted the matter for fresh examination by a different bench. on 29 november 2007 the district court again held that the decision of 9 june 2007 not to institute criminal proceedings against p. had been unlawful and unjustified. the court found that the investigator had rightly come to the conclusion that there had been no objective information confirming the applicant’s allegation of ill-treatment by the police officer, p., and that the above-mentioned conclusion had been reached on the basis of comprehensive evidence.
the municipal authorities reclaimed the flats, and the applicants’ title to the real property in question was annulled. in 1977 a number of flats in a residential building located at 15-3 ulitsa tsyurupy, moscow, were assigned by the city of moscow to the ministry of communications. in 1991 the flats were transferred to the rostelekom open joint stock company, the ministry’s successor. it appears that the flats remained vacant. in 2008-2009 a group of people, including a police officer, a lawyer, a notary and several rostelekom employees, forged documents pertaining to three flats located at 15-3 ulitsa tsyurupy, moscow, showing that the flats were owned by private individuals and, following their deaths, were inherited by their “heirs”. then the “heirs” sold the flats to private parties. subsequently the flats were bought by the applicants. each transaction with the flats was reviewed and approved by the city registration department. on 7 december 2012 the housing department of the city of moscow (the “housing department”) was recognised as a victim of the crime. on 9 december 2013 the perovskiy district court of moscow found nine defendants, including several rostelekom employees, guilty of fraud. according to the government, notary k. was also found guilty of fraud and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. in 2014 the housing department brought civil actions seeking restitution of the flats. the moscow city court upheld the judgments of the district court on appeal. in the city court’s view, ms titova, if having acted with due care and diligence, should have had doubts as to the legitimacy of seller’s title and sale of the flat. the details pertaining to each case are summed up in appendix ii below.
the applicant was born in 1980 in abakan, the khakassiya republic. the applicant stood accused of theft and murder. on 22 november 2004 the sayanogorsk town court in khakassiya fixed, in the hearing held without the applicant’s attendance, the opening date for the trial and ordered an extension of his pre-trial detention. on 2 december 2004 the applicant was convicted and given a custodial sentence. on 22 march 2005 the constitutional court held, in unrelated proceedings, that the provisions of the code of criminal procedure ought to be interpreted as guaranteeing the right of the defendant to take part in the hearing where the matter of detention was decided, to make submissions to the court and to produce evidence (judgment no. on 8 august 2013 the presidium of the supreme court of the khakassiya republic quashed the town court’s decision of 22 november 2004 in the part relating to the detention matter. referring to the case-law of the constitutional court, it found that the district court had unlawfully extended the applicant’s detention without giving him an opportunity to take part in the hearing or to make submissions to the court. the applicant sued the ministry of finance, seeking compensation for the unlawful detention from 22 november to 2 december 2004. by judgment of 16 september 2013, as upheld on appeal on 27 november 2013, the abakan town court rejected his claim, holding that he was not eligible for compensation in respect of pre-trial detention because he had been found guilty and given a custodial sentence.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in moscow. on 25 june 2014 the district court decided that the children should reside with their mother, the applicant. to return the children to her and pay child maintenance. the judgment became final on 14 october 2014. on 12 february 2015 the applicant challenged the lawfulness of the above-mentioned decision before the district court. however, since neither the applicant nor her representative were present, the enforcement could not take place. according to the applicant, she was never informed of the enforcement dates scheduled for 22 june, 6 july, 13 july, 27 july and 19 august 2015. on 6 october and 20 october 2015 a bailiff from the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service in moscow ordered r.m. on 23 october 2015 the deputy chief bailiff of the izmaylovskiy district bailiffs’ service imposed an administrative fine on r.m. on 10 november 2015 the bailiff imposed an execution fee on r.m. of rub 2,500 for failure to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014. of rub 1,000 for failure to comply with the lawful demands of the bailiffs. was invited to the bailiffs’ office on 19 january 2016 to provide explanations for his reluctance to comply with the judgment of 25 june 2014, and was ordered to comply by 20 january 2016. according to the government, on 5 may 2016 the bailiff informed the applicant that the enforcement was scheduled for 10 a.m. on 19 may 2016 at the children’s place of residence in the republic of ingushetiya. it appears from the case file that the notification of 5 may 2016 was sent to r.m.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in bălți. on 5 february 2011 at 1.30 p.m. the applicant was arrested on suspicion of trafficking in human beings and placed in detention for a period of seventy-two hours, which is the maximum duration of detention under the moldovan law before a detainee is brought before a judge. on 8 february 2011 at 10.20 a.m. the prosecutor applied to a judge for the applicant’s remand in custody and at 2 p.m. the applicant was brought before a judge, who ordered his remand in custody for thirty days. it is not clear at what time the decision was adopted, but there is a handwritten note on it which states it had been presented to the applicant at 3.50 p.m., followed by the applicant’s signature. the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued, inter alia, that the detention which had taken place before the court’s decision of 8 february 2011 had been longer than seventy-two hours, which was the maximum duration provided for by law. he also submitted that he had not been given access to the materials in the case-file relied upon by the prosecutor when requesting his remand in custody. on 17 february 2011 the bălți court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the court did not pay attention to the applicant’s allegation that he had no access to the materials in the case-file. on 5 march 2011 the prosecutor in charge of the case applied to a judge for a prolongation of the applicant’s detention for another thirty days. a judge examined and upheld it on the same date. he ordered the applicant’s detention until 6 march 2011. on an unspecified date, the same judge issued a new decision rectifying the date of the validity of the applicant’s order for remand in custody from 6 march to 6 april 2011. the court found therefore that the applicant’s detention had been unlawful since 6 march and ordered his immediate release. it appears from the materials contained in the case file that the applicant has been convicted at first instance and that the proceedings are still pending before the bălți court of appeal. according to the information provided by the parties, the applicant is currently wanted by the authorities.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in lobnya, moscow region. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. according to him, he was beaten up by the police as they were dispersing the demonstration. on 11 july 2012 the moscow city court upheld the detention order of 9 june 2012. on 7 december 2012 the investigator of the zamoskvoretskiy inter‑district investigation committee of moscow refused to open a criminal case into allegations made by the applicant that he had been subjected to ill‑treatment by the police during his arrest. the investigator considered that the use of force by the police had been justified by the behaviour of the protesters, including the applicant, who had actively resisted their arrest and thrown various objects at the police officers. the decision concerned eleven defendants. however, the district court did not consider that guarantee and ordered that the applicant and his co-defendants be detained until 24 february 2014 on the grounds of gravity of the charges and the nature of the offences imputable to them. on 17 december 2013 the moscow city court upheld that extension order. according to the applicant, prison cell no. according to the government, all of the cells had sanitary units with wash stands and the necessary furniture. from mid-september 2013 to the end of 2013 the hearings continued in hearing room no. those hearing rooms were equipped with metal cages in which nine defendants (eight from 19 december 2013), including the applicant, sat during the hearings. he testified that at some point he had been surrounded by the crowd and subjected to violence. as no further correspondence had been received from the applicant, on 28 august 2013 the registry of the court asked him whether he was still being represented by mr d. and reminded him to return the completed application form.
the first applicant, unifaun theatre productions limited, is a limited liability company which produces theatrical performances in maltese theatres. on 23 january 2009 the first applicant, via the second applicant, sent an email, followed by a telephone call, to the chairperson of the board enquiring about the decision. no reasons were provided by the chairperson. they considered the defendants responsible for any damage suffered. in the evening of the same day, the applicants and their legal counsel were summoned for questioning at the police headquarters. what then ensues is a very violent and dark relationship, a kind of a punishment of themselves, confessions of their guilt. i felt that that would be needlessly offensive for people however another director might chose to do so. ... a psychologist and member of the board) found the script barely credible in so far as it was unlikely that a person would go through so many situations one after the other. in his view a normal couple, a couple who went through a normal life experience such as the death of a child, would not react like the characters in the play, who for example, re‑enacted a killing which had greatly marked england. he explained that the word “fuck” combined with the word “god” was unacceptable because it offended public morals, not only that of catholics, but that of half the world. thus, in his view those parts had to be deleted from the play. she considered that the play in its entirety, and not one scene here and there, was objectionable and offensive. as to the constitutional and conventional complaint raised by the applicants, the constitutional court held that the existence of the board did not breach any of the applicants’ rights, and indeed the applicants had not impugned the law establishing the board. referring to the court’s case-law, in particular, otto‑preminger‑institut v. austria (§ 47) it recalled that those who chose to exercise the freedom to manifest their religion, “must tolerate and accept the denial by others of their religious beliefs and even the propagation by others of doctrines hostile to their faith. in any event it considered that adults, who could chose to watch the play in such a case, would also be deserving of protection, and thus limitations could also be necessary in such cases.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in grozny, chechen republic. according to the applicant, on 7 february 1999 the administrative authorities of the leninskiy district of grozny provided her with a housing allocation order no. in 2005 the applicant was registered as living in that flat. the applicant’s housing allocation order dated 7 february 1999 appeared suspicious to the authorities and they commissioned an expert to verify its authenticity. the expert concluded that the allocation order was a forged document. she submitted that the administration had issued her with the housing allocation order because she had been on the housing list and she was subsequently registered as living in that flat. the administration could not say whether the order had been in fact delivered to the applicant, since the archives had not been preserved. however, according to the civil servants of the administration, commissions on allocation of housing had been meeting once a month. it follows from the expert certificate no. 842 of 7 february 1999 ... did not correspond to the date on which it had been issued. 842 of 7 february 1999 had been made with the help of electrophotographic imaging on the copy machine. the court has assessed the whole of evidence submitted by the parties and finds that it is possible to grant the claimant’s claim...” 12. in her appeal against the judgment of 24 february 2009 the applicant submitted that in taking the decision to evict her the district court had not examined whether she had been in need of housing or not. 842 of 7 february 1999 issued by the administration of the leninskiy district of grozny to r.m. the impress of a seal of the leninskiy district of grozny [on the order] had been made with the help of an improvised cliché which in its turn had been made with a help of a computer on the basis of an impress of the authentic seal......having regards to the above, the court of first instance had concluded that the claims submitted by the administration of grozny had to be granted.
the applicants were or are still detained in korydallos prison hospital (“the prison hospital”). 4322/2015, having served one third of his sentence. the fifth applicant, theodoros iliopoulos, was detained in the prison hospital from 8 january 2013 until 2 june 2015, the date on which he was released following use of the remedy provided for by section 12 of law no. the seventh applicant, davit khutsishvili, was detained in the prison hospital from 1 july 2014 until 27 october 2016. he was again detained in the prison hospital from 22 january 2016, and was still in detention there when the parties submitted their observations. the eighteenth applicant, chrisovalantis tsiriklos, was detained in the prison hospital from 4 july 2013 until 8 july 2015, when he was released after having made use of the remedy provided for by article 110a of the criminal code. in particular, bunk beds were not used in the prison hospital and extra furniture, such as medical equipment, was required; therefore half the area of each ward had been occupied by furniture, which had resulted in them having a personal space in which they could move freely of below 2 sq. meals had been insufficient and of poor quality and the absence of recreational activities had affected their psychological health. central heating had been inadequate and collection of rubbish, especially in the kitchens, had not been sufficient, creating hygiene problems and resulting in bad smells and the presence of pests. the applicants also complained of the lack of medical staff and properly equipped laboratories for their medical examinations. 2776/1999), to which they have not received any reply to date. specifically as regards the applicants, some of them had been detained in wards 7 and 8 on the first floor of the hospital and some others in wards 1, 2 and 3 on the second floor. detainees who required more intense or specialised care were referred to public hospitals, a procedure which was used for the third, fourth, ninth, fifteenth and seventeenth applicants. wards were sufficiently ventilated and heated and had adequate natural light via six large windows. lastly, according to the government, during 2015 and 2016 conditions of detention in the prison hospital were drastically improved.
the applicant, mr steingrim wolland, was born in 1961 and lives in oslo, norway. documents were put in sealed bags instead of being searched for evidence by the police. mirror copies (speilkopier) of the hard disk and laptop were taken; the hard disk and laptop were returned to the applicant two days later. this material was stored separately and placed under seal. 2011 page 296 (see paragraphs 38-39 below). the city court would obtain the views of the parties in a hearing before making a formal decision as to whether to authorise the search of the prosecution. from the above it was apparent, in the high court’s view, that the applicant was not at that stage of the procedure entitled to have the question of whether to maintain the “seizure” in force (spørsmålet om opprettholdelse av beslaget) under article 208 reviewed (see paragraph 37 below), and it could not see how him disputing the existence of reasonable grounds for suspicion in his case could lead to a different result. the high court also noted that the code of criminal procedure contained several provisions conferring on the accused a right to judicial review in respect of enforcement measures taken in the form of search and seizure, inter alia could a decision by a court to the effect that documents were to be handed over to the prosecution authorities after perusal of the documents in accordance with article 204 (see paragraph 37 below) – which was what the city court was doing at the time – be appealed against. in the court records it was registered that the court had informed the parties that it was desirable if a decision could be reached as soon as possible and preferably within a month. it referred, inter alia, to the general obligation to ensure progress in investigations, as reflected in article 226 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 37 below). when, on 20 may 2014, the high court contacted the prosecuting authority, its decision concerning the mirror copies having been quashed by the supreme court (see paragraph 31 above), the authority responded by informing the high court of the developments in the criminal case against the applicant (see paragraph 35 below). this made it difficult to see why the applicant should have legal standing to require that the courts examine his application. the case as concerned the mirror copies was ultimately dismissed on 22 august 2014. the charges concerning forgery of documents (ibid.) were dropped on 16 february 2011 and the remainder on 21 august 2013.
the applicants were born in 1966, 1971, 1993 and 1996 respectively. the second applicant is the former spouse of the first applicant and the third and the fourth applicants are their children. the first, the third and the fourth applicants live in lviv. in august 2001 the second applicant, a military officer at the material time, was provided with a two-room flat for himself and his family in an accommodation hall owned by the lviv military academy. subsequently all four applicants obtained residence registration with the local authority as tenants of that flat. in august 2011 the lviv garrison military prosecutor instituted eviction proceedings against the applicants. meanwhile, none of the applicants had any connection to the military or the military academy, which owned the building. it found that the applicants had lawfully obtained the tenancy in connection with the second applicant’s previous military service. regard being had to the applicable legal provisions concerning the social protection of former military officers and their families, they could not be evicted from the accommodation hall without first being provided with other housing. they also submitted that their income level was not sufficient for them to acquire housing at their own expense and that they did not have any family members in lviv who could offer shelter to them. their residence was duly registered and they had been dutifully paying all the applicable fees connected with their occupancy of the flat. in addition, evicting them on this basis should have become time-barred in 2004 (three years after they had moved into the flat). lastly, the applicants referred to the judgment of the european court of human rights in the case of kryvitska and kryvitskyy v. ukraine (no. on 20 november 2013 the higher specialised court of ukraine dismissed the applicants’ cassation appeal. subsequently, enforcement proceedings were instituted with a view to evicting the applicants.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in tirana. the applicant was subsequently arrested by the authorities. it appears that the applicant wrote this letter while he was in detention. the two other co-accused were convicted and sentenced. on an unspecified date the two other co-accused and the prosecutor appealed against the district court’s decision of 1 november 1999. on an unspecified date the applicant left albania. the applicant was represented by a. in his absence. on 21 april 2000 the supreme court rejected the applicant’s appeal lodged by a. against the durrës court of appeal decision of 28  february 2000. on 26 december 2000, during the retrial proceedings, the district  court convicted the applicant in absentia of premeditated murder and sentenced him to twenty-three years’ imprisonment. the applicant had been represented in those proceedings by a new, court-appointed lawyer. there is no copy of the said supreme court decision in the case file. on 8 july 2005 the applicant was informed of his conviction in  absentia by his family members. on 4 november 2005, 29 september 2006 and 9 july 2010 respectively, the district court and the court of appeal dismissed, and the supreme court rejected, his application. the domestic courts held that the applicant should have known of the proceedings as he had been represented by a lawyer of his own choosing, a., who had been informed of the prosecutor’s appeal, and as his mother had appointed a lawyer to make an application for review. they also held that the case had already been examined at all instances and that their decisions were still in effect.
the united civil aviation trade union (“the first applicant”) is a trade union registered in budapest. mr a. csorba (“the second applicant”) is a hungarian national who was born in 1970 and lives in vecsés. he is the president of the united civil aviation trade union. on 12 october 2012 the second applicant applied to the budapest police department for authorisation to hold a demonstration on the road leading to budapest ferenc liszt international airport. he stated that the demonstration would be held on the hard shoulder of the road, which was not ordinarily used for traffic. the event was scheduled to be held between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. on 17 october 2012. the second applicant also specified that it was expected that about fifty to 100 persons would participate in the event and that it was intended that speeches would be given and that an open letter would be read out. on 14 october 2012 the budapest police department registered the application and informed the second applicant that, in order to clarify details regarding the programme of the demonstration and the number of police officers that would be required to secure the event, it was necessary to schedule a meeting with the organisers. the representative of the police department suggested that the demonstration be held at another location, since the planned venue would endanger traffic. the second applicant assured the police that the demonstrators would respect traffic rules, would only occupy the part of the road not used for traffic and would distribute flyers to car passengers, and that the organisers would call off or halt the demonstration if it was not in compliance with the relevant legal provisions. on 14 october 2012 the monor police department forbade the demonstration. on 17 october 2012 the applicants requested judicial review of the decision, relying on their right to freedom of expression and to freedom of assembly. they argued that a demonstration could only be forbidden on the grounds of a need to ensure traffic safety if there were no alternative means of access to the airport. in their view the demonstration would not constitute any greater hindrance to traffic than would roadworks. by a decision of 19 october 2012 the budapest surroundings high court (budapest környéki törvényszék) dismissed their complaint, endorsing in essence the police department’s reasoning (see paragraph 9 above).
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in nova gorica. because of these medical issues she was found, in 2006, to be incapable of further work and officially recognised as having a partial disability. on 12 march 2012 the first-instance disability commission of the institute, located in nova gorica, issued a report to the effect that the applicant was not suffering from any physical impairment stipulated in the self-management agreement on the list of physical impairments (samoupravni sporazum o seznamu telesnih okvar – hereinafter “the list”; see paragraph 22 below). the commission – composed of an occupational medicine specialist, an orthopaedic specialist and a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician – based its opinion on an examination of the medical records submitted by the applicant and a clinical examination of the applicant. a copy of the first-instance disability commission’s opinion was attached to the decision. she argued that because of the incapacity of her arms the functioning of her body was inhibited and greater efforts were required to satisfy her daily needs. she also argued that the opposing party should have more seriously examined all her medical problems. she accordingly proposed that a medical expert be appointed. after taking into account the documents in the file and the hearing of the applicant, the court found that the institute had correctly established the facts. on 6 february 2014 the higher labour and social court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, finding that the facts had been sufficiently established and the substantive law applied correctly. the higher labour and social court agreed with the court of first instance that the disability commissions in the pre-judicial administrative proceedings had made the right assessment when concluding that the applicant had not suffered from any physical impairment. the applicant lodged an application for leave to appeal on points of law. on 21 july 2014 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. she invoked article 22 (equal protection of rights) and article 23 (the right to judicial protection) of the constitution. she also reiterated her complaint about the reliance on the list.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant was represented by a court-appointed lawyer. on 7 october 2002, following an appeal by the three other defendants, the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the decision in the applicant’s absence. on 10 october 2007, upon the applicant’s extradition to albania, the district court accepted his application for leave to appeal out of time. on an unspecified date in october 2007 the applicant lodged his appeal. in the first place, he requested that his case be re-examined separately from that of his co-defendants on the grounds that he had not sought the use of the summary procedure. 2 of 29 january 2003 (see paragraph 16 below). secondly, he requested that a fresh examination of the evidence be conducted in his presence and that a number of witnesses be questioned. on 17 december 2007 the gjirokastër court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction in absentia. the court further stated that the applicant had been duly informed as the authorities had issued a public notice. he complained of a breach of his right to have witnesses questioned and evidence re-examined. it had not been possible for him to obtain that evidence himself, only the courts or the prosecutor could have done that. the applicant also maintained the other complaints he had raised in his court of appeal case. on 21 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court. on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision that his appeal was inadmissible.
the applicant was born in qesarat, tepelenë, in 1977. he is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 january and 10 november 2005, following proceedings in absentia, the gjirokastër district court and the court of appeal, respectively, convicted the applicant of attempted theft resulting in death in collusion with others and sentenced him to seventeen years’ imprisonment. that decision became final on 9 february 2007 after the supreme court dismissed an appeal by the applicant’s lawyer. it appears that the applicant was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family throughout the court proceedings. it appears that on 30 march 2007 the applicant was extradited from greece to albania. on 3 may 2007 the gjirokastër district court allowed a request by the applicant to appeal out of time and he lodged an appeal against his conviction in absentia. on 12 november 2007 the gjirokaster court of appeal while requalifying the charges against the applicant on the basis of the evidence obtained during the proceedings in absentia, upheld the applicant’s conviction, ruling that it had become res judicata. by a final decision of 7 october 2009 the supreme court upheld the applicant’s conviction as decided in the gjirokastër district court’s decision of 2005, ruling that it had become res judicata and that the facts and law in the case had been examined previously. it further noted that leave to appeal out of time should not have been granted as the case had become res  judicata. on 21 february 2011 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal with the constitutional court against the supreme court’s decision, complaining, inter alia, about the fact that the domestic courts had not given him the possibility of a fresh factual and legal determination of the criminal charge. on 9 may 2011 the applicant’s lawyer was notified of the constitutional court’s decision to dismiss his appeal.
the first applicant was born in 1947 and lives in dolyna, a city in the ivano-frankivsk region. the applicant obtained a property certificate in respect of that land on 13 august 2007. the second applicant was born in 1939 and lives in ternopil. as a result of this process, millions of new owners were issued with ownership certificates relating to specific plots of land.[1] the land owned by the applicants underwent this process (see paragraphs 6 and 7 above). some 107,000 shares were sold or otherwise disposed of by their new owners, which, according to parliament, showed that they had not been adequately informed about the land reform and their rights and duties.[2]parliament observed that, due to a lack of funding, the cabinet of ministers was only planning to complete the share conversion and titling work by 2006, which made it impossible to introduce the land sales market from 1 january 2005, as the land code provided at the time (see paragraph 19 below). an “extension” of the moratorium was needed to develop an effective mechanism for sales and overseeing sales of land and to prevent possible abuses1110/11/2015the same as in row 10, but not before 01/01/2017the law extending the moratorium instructed the cabinet of ministers to produce the draft cala and submit it to parliament by 01/03/2016lifting the moratorium in times of war and economic crisis would be a threat to national and food security and the threat of a loss of land, as an important national resource. a step-by-step roadmap for introducing agricultural land into circulation, which would be clear to the public, needed to be developed. article 14 § 1 provides that land is the main national asset, and is under the special protection of the state. article 143 provides that a court may order expropriation of land without compensation in cases of failure to respect the designated use of the land or rectify a serious breach of land protection rules despite a warning from the land protection authorities. article 130 provides that land zoned for commercial agricultural production can only be acquired by a ukrainian national with sufficient educational qualifications or experience to engage in agricultural production or by a ukrainian legal entity which has agriculture listed in its articles of association among the types of business it can engage in. section 19 of the land lease act provides that for the main categories of agricultural land, the term of lease cannot be less than seven years and, for any lease, cannot exceed fifty years. on 31 may 2002, in his annual address to parliament on the state of the nation, the president of ukraine stressed the need to create the structure for an efficient and transparent land market by 2005, when the moratorium would expire. for now, unfortunately, it has been formed by the populists. it appears from the material available to the court on the legislation of member states of the council of europe that none of the thirty‑two member states surveyed has a general ban on the sale or any other form of alienation of agricultural land. in another example, in norway a typical condition on which authorisation is granted may be that the buyer must move onto the land and live on it for five years.
the first applicant was born in 1958 and lives in prague. on 17 october 2003 he married b., a ukrainian national, in prague. b. continued to live with the child at a different address in prague. on october 2010 b. lodged an appeal on points of law. the first applicant appealed against that decision, arguing that the ukrainian court did not have competence to determine the child’s place of residence because the custody rights had to be determined by the czech authorities. for that reason, on 6 october 2010 she was ordered to pay a fine of 170 ukrainian hryvnias (uah)[1]. on 3 november 2010 the halych district court of ivano-frankivsk region dismissed the bailiffs’ request to put the child on the search list. the court found that there was no evidence that the bailiffs had made attempts to identify the whereabouts of b. and the child. as b. continued to avoid the enforcement of the judgment, in november 2010 the bailiffs requested that criminal proceedings be initiated against her on charges of deliberate non-compliance with a court decision under article 382 § 1 of the criminal code of ukraine, which provided for a maximum penalty of three years’ imprisonment. on 23 august 2011 the halych district court granted the requests. on 21 november 2011 b. informed the bailiffs that she and the child were living at their home in demeshkivtsi. as b. and the child were not present at their address when the bailiffs made further visits, the bailiffs applied to the court to have them put on the search list and to have the child placed in temporary care. on 5 march 2012 the ivano-frankivsk town court refused to grant the requests, holding that the bailiffs had not taken sufficient steps to identify the whereabouts of b. and that the child was living in suitable conditions which made it unnecessary to place him in temporary care. the court also examined submissions from the local childcare authorities to that effect. on 23 february 2015 the first-instance court upheld the bailiffs’ decision to discontinue the enforcement proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained at the corradino correctional facility, paola. in the meantime on 10 april 2012 the applicant instituted constitutional redress proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence. by a decision of 7 september 2012 the criminal court, having examined the documents submitted by the applicant, rejected the attorney general’s request to increase the deposit but added the condition that the applicant could not be in the vicinity of locality r. it also rejected the applicant’s request considering that the court of magistrates had correctly applied its discretion. he complained that although he had been in detention for twenty-two months, and was entitled to bail, he had nevertheless remained in detention since he (and his family) could not afford to pay such an excessive amount by way of deposit. on 10 october 2012 the attorney general objected to the applicant’s new request, noting that the applicant was not reliable, and that his inability to pay the deposit showed that he would be unable to pay the personal guarantee if he were to breach his conditions. by a decree of 18 october 2012, having seen the request and the reply submitted by the attorney general, the court rejected the applicant’s request. on 4 december 2012 the applicant filed another application requesting the court to reduce the amount that he had to deposit. on 29 january 2013 the applicant filed yet another application requesting that the amount of deposit be reduced. he referred to a property the relatives had inherited which they were willing to put forward as a guarantee instead of the deposit. the court noted that the applicant did not satisfy this obligation. in the court’s view, in the present case, bearing in mind the seriousness of the crime and the potential punishment, the applicant had not brought enough evidence before the courts of criminal justice to substantiate his claim that those courts had imposed excessive conditions (including that referring to the amount of deposit). indeed even though the collection of evidence had come to an end, one had to guarantee that the evidence remained intact and thus relevant guarantees were necessary. it also made reference to the court’s judgment in mangouras v. spain ([gc], no. it noted that although the applicant’s mother did not own the tenement she had used for the purposes of the guarantee, it was already in her possession for a period of time before the last application for the reduction of the amount was filed. on 16 june 2015 the criminal court was informed that a plea bargain had been concluded between the applicant and the prosecution.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in koper. he had been repeatedly stabbed and cut with a knife and then run over by a car. on examining the crime scene, x’s mobile telephone was found in his car. on the same day (5 november 2007) the investigating judge of the koper district court issued an order for a search of x’s home and ordered the s company to provide data concerning communication undertaken via x’s mobile telephone. the m company provided a disk containing the requested data on the same day. the applicant, represented by counsel, was heard on 8 november 2017 and was subsequently detained on remand. on 29 november 2007 the applicant was, at his request, heard by the investigating judge, to whom he admitted to running over x, but submitted that this had merely been an accident. on 10 june 2008 the koper district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to thirteen years in prison. in the retrial proceedings, several hearings were held and the applicant lodged an application for the exclusion of all evidence from (i) the records of the crime-scene investigation until (ii) the records of the last hearing in the first set of proceedings, on the grounds that that evidence had allegedly been tainted by the unlawful examinations of his and x’s telephones. the court furthermore found that the applicant and x had known each other, which was confirmed by the applicant’s statements as well as by telephone records and witness testimony. he further stated as follows:“it is irrelevant that the police, by [their] unlawful interference with [x]’s mobile telephone, did not directly violate the appellant’s right under article 37 of the constitution [“privacy of correspondence and other means of communication”], because the fact remains that the police obtained that evidence (data from [x]’s mobile telephone) without a court order – that is to say unlawfully.” thus, in his view, the impugned judgment should not have concluded that the examination of his telephone had had insignificant evidentiary value. on 27 january 2010 the koper higher court allowed the applicant’s appeal in part and reduced his sentence to nine years in prison. in view of this conclusion, the supreme court considered that, regardless of the fact that the police had examined the applicant’s telephone without a court order, the identification of the applicant’s mobile telephone number as the one from which the text message in question had been sent did not constitute inadmissible evidence that should have been excluded from the case file. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, reiterating the allegations made in his previous appeals.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. in 1998 the applicant was implicated in the commission of the criminal offence of setting up and being a member of an armed gang and of other criminal offences. on 4 february 1999 the prosecutor charged him with the offences of membership of an armed gang, attempted intentional murder and other crimes. it appears that throughout the investigation proceedings the applicant was represented by an officially appointed lawyer. however, the order could not be enforced as the applicant could not be traced. the decision stated that it was impossible to find him as it appeared that he had escaped to an unknown destination (këto kërkime nuk kanë bërë të mundur kapjen e të pandehurit pasi ai rezulton të ketë ikur në drejtim të paditur). on 28 may 1999 the supreme court transferred the case for examination to the durrës district court. the trial proceedings against the applicant were conducted in absentia and he was represented by a lawyer appointed by his family in accordance with article 48 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (“ccp”). he was sentenced to fifteen years’ imprisonment. the decision was based on evidence from documents and witness testimony. on 19 april 2000 the court of appeal declined to examine the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that the applicant’s family had not given any express authority to the lawyer for such a procedure. it convicted the applicant of the same offences as before and sentenced him to thirteen years’ imprisonment. on 16 september 2005 the applicant was arrested by the czech authorities on the basis of an arrest warrant issued by albania. on 25 january 2006 the applicant was extradited to albania. on 1 march 2006 the applicant was officially informed of his conviction in absentia.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in osijek. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 6 november 2000, in inheritance proceedings following the applicant’s grandmother’s death, the applicant’s relative, m.j., he set the value of the dispute (vrijednost predmeta spora) at 110,000 croatian kunas (hrk). in the proceedings before the first-instance court, on 5 november 2007 the applicant contested the value of the dispute and suggested that it be set at hrk 300,000. in its judgment of 25 april 2008 the zabok municipal court accepted m.j. the applicant lodged an appeal with the zlatar county court (županijski sud u zlataru) and on 16 september 2009 the second-instance court dismissed her appeal as ill-founded, upholding the first-instance judgment. ’s civil action as being composed of two separate claims arising from different factual and legal bases - the first one for recognition of ownership, and the second for obtaining an order securing the registration of his ownership in the land register (hereinafter “the issuance of a clausula intabulandi”). the relevant part of this decision reads as follows:“the claimant in his civil action indicated the value of the dispute as hrk 110,000. pursuant to section 37(2) of the cpa [(civil procedure act)], if the claims in the civil action arise from a variety of grounds, or different claimants put forward individual claims or individual claims are raised against several defendants, the value of the dispute must be established in accordance with the value of each individual claim. therefore, the value of the dispute has to be established in relation to the value of the dispute of each claim. consequently, the value of the dispute of each claim ... has to be established by dividing the indicated unique value of the dispute by [these] two [claims]. ’s action had two aspects which could not be separated, and that the supreme court’s decision finding that the case concerned two separate claims had therefore been arbitrary and had violated her right to a fair hearing, in particular her right of access to the supreme court, as guaranteed under article 29 of the constitution. on 17 february 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. its decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 3 march 2011.
the applicant was born in 1968 and is detained in rezina. on 16 march 2011 the prison administration found a mobile phone in his cell. since this is an object possession of which is prohibited by prison rules, on 23 march 2011 the prison administration sanctioned him with a reprimand. no further reasons were given and the length of the period for which the measure was to apply was not specified. it appears from the applicant’s submissions that the measure was revoked at an extraordinary meeting of the prison board five months after it was imposed. on 28 july 2011 the applicant asked the prison administration on what grounds the prison board had decided that he should be handcuffed. on 3 august 2011 he was informed that the sanction had been applied on the basis of order no. 583 of 26 may 2006 (“the regulation” – see paragraphs 14 and 16 below). he noted that handcuffing was a sanction and relied on the reply of the prisons department (see the preceding paragraph) in arguing that that sanction could only be applied on the basis of the regulation and not some secret order. the applicant attempted to have the decision quashed by using an extraordinary remedy, but on 3 october 2012 the supreme court of justice refused his request. under article 95 of the regulation, as modified on 26 september 2008, persons serving life imprisonment shall be handcuffed when moving outside their cells if it is established during the last evaluation that the absence of such a measure will pose an immediate danger to other detainees, prison staff or other persons. evaluations of this kind shall be carried out at least once every six months. under article 219 of the regulation, a detainee may be handcuffed if (i) he or she physically resists prison staff or “is infuriated” (until he or she calms down), (ii) he or she refuses to move under escort, (iii) there are grounds for believing that there is a risk of the detainee escaping, (iv) he or she attempts suicide or self-mutilation, or attacks other detainees (until the detainee calms down), or (v) during the escorting of a detainee after his or her escape and subsequent apprehension. 68.3 instruments of restraint shall not be applied for any longer time than is strictly necessary. in the cpt’s view, the objectives and principles for the treatment of life-sentenced prisoners enunciated by the committee of ministers in recommendation rec (2003) 23 on the management by prison administrations of life sentence and other long-term prisoners remains the most pertinent and comprehensive reference document for this group of prisoners.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in kostino, kirov region. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, 5 january 2016) and yaroslav belousov v. russia (nos. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. it took them about two hours to clear the protestors from the square. on 18 may 2012 the file was transferred to the headquarters of the investigative committee for further investigation. the two criminal cases were joined on the same day. the applicant’s complaints concerning the grounds and the length of his detention on remand, the poor conditions of detention and the lack of medical assistance in the remand prison were examined in the case kovyazin and others v. russia (nos. on 4 may 2012 he received an assignment from the newspaper chief editor to attend the “march of millions” on 6 may 2012 at bolotnaya square and to take a video footage of the event. according to the applicant, on 6 may 2012 he arrived at bolotnaya square, filmed the event and did not take part in any disorder or clashes with the police. it was found to be unjustified by the court in the case of kovyazin and others (cited above, §§ 79-93). on 6 june 2013 court proceedings began in hearing room no. it was equipped with metal cages, in which nine defendants, including the applicant, sat during the hearings. on 18 december 2013 the state duma passed the amnesty act, which exempted persons suspected and accused of criminal offences under article 212 §§ 2 and 3 of the criminal code from criminal liability. on the same day the zamoskvoretskiy district court granted the request and released him from detention.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in diyarbakır. the police officers gave chase in police cars and “küçük şiyar”, who was sitting on the back of the motorbike, drew his pistol and pointed it at a police car. it appears from another report prepared by different police officers that at 3 p.m. on the same day a police chief and three police officers arrived at the scene of the incident after “küçük şiyar” had been shot but before he was taken to hospital. when the four police officers searched a bag they noticed on the motorbike they found a hand grenade. according to the report, the pistol, the hand grenade and the motorbike were then taken away by the four officers in order not to hinder the flow of traffic and to prevent panic among the public, as the incident had occurred on a busy street. the other person on the motorbike, m.n.b., on 6 july 2004 the prosecutor questioned t.s., also a police officer, who was questioned the following day, told the prosecutor that şiyar perinçek’s clothes had been removed before şiyar perinçek had been taken into the operating theatre and that they had then been taken away by a plainclothes police officer, d.a.y., had left for his annual leave for a month and could not therefore be questioned. on 13 july 2004 the applicant joined the criminal investigation as an intervener. moreover, although according to the report prepared by those police officers both pistols, the hand grenades and the motorbike had been taken away by them before the arrival of the crime-scene officers, according to the crime‑scene officers’ report the motorbike had still been at the scene on their arrival (see paragraph 12 above). at the time he had thought that they were about to be robbed and had panicked. in his submissions to the trial court the prosecutor also argued that the defendant police officer had acted in self-defence. he repeated his earlier arguments and complaints and alleged that his son had been shot at close range. he submitted that the clothes his son had been wearing had been taken away by police officers with a view to hiding the fact that they had shot his son at close range.
the applicants were born in 1963 and 1965 respectively and live in i̇zmir. their respective children, sibel sartık and nergiz özer, aged 24 and 15 respectively, were killed by soldiers on 19 january 2005 in south-east turkey. the bodies of those three individuals were subsequently handed over to their families, who buried them in diyarbakır. on the same date the governor of siirt issued a decision stating that crowds had gathered at the cemetery in siirt and had attacked the municipal workers who were preparing the graves. therefore, “in order to prevent any unwanted consequences”, the governor decided to order the burial of the applicants’ children in the two villages named in the respective birth register records of the two deceased. the applicants told the soldiers that they had no connection with the two villages in question which, in any event, had been evacuated by soldiers in the 1990s. they stated that they wanted to bury their children side by side in their family cemetery in siirt. despite their objections, the bodies of the two children were confiscated and taken away by the soldiers. the applicants agreed, in particular, that it was important and necessary to maintain public order. the administrative court considered that, although the applicants had the right to bury their children in a cemetery of their choice, the refusal to permit them to do so had been in compliance with the restrictions set out in the second paragraphs of articles 8 and 9 of the convention and in section 13 of the turkish constitution. they repeated their argument that the three others killed by the soldiers at the same time as their children had been buried by their families in diyarbakır without incident. the applicants also reiterated their request for an interim measure. the request for an interim measure was rejected by the supreme administrative court on 13 december 2006. in reaching its conclusion the supreme administrative court stated that the incidents at the siirt cemetery had begun when the people who had gathered there had insisted that the applicants’ two children be buried next to the graves of members of the pkk. the decision of the supreme administrative court was communicated to the applicants on 19 march 2009.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in trinca. on 30 may 2005 he wrote to the prosecutor general’s office, listing the many complaints that he had previously lodged with various authorities (including the police) of having been ill-treated by his ex-wife and children, the destruction of his property by them, and the failure of the local police to react in any manner. he explained that he had been again struck by his son. on 26 june 2006 the edineț prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that it had decided not to initiate an investigation into the alleged attack by his son (d.v.). the injury was considered to be of medium severity and requiring more than twenty-one days of treatment. on 5 january 2007 the applicant lodged a complaint with the police about ill-treatment by his ex-wife and three of his children, including d.v. another witness stated that he had seen the applicant cutting wood on 12 january 2007 at the local priest’s house, while three other persons were taking a rest. on 10 april 2008 a higher-ranking prosecutor annulled the decision of 19 march 2008 as premature and taken without the origin of the applicant’s injury having been established. lastly, the applicant had not been informed that he could submit the x-ray results directly to the centre. he also found that the investigative actions had been “extremely superficial” and had had a “tendentious, unilateral character”. on 20 march 2009 the applicant agreed to submit the x-rays taken on 28 december 2006 to the investigator. the commission also concluded that this type of injury could have been caused in the manner described by the applicant, but could also have been self-inflicted. on 30 june 2010 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation, essentially for the same reasons as those for which he had discontinued it previously, adding that the medical reports did not exclude the possibility that the injury had been self-inflicted. that decision was confirmed by a higher-ranking prosecutor on 17 december 2010. each time he explained that he had been beaten by his ex-wife and children.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in zagreb. in the former yugoslav socialist regime all employees contributed to housing funds. the funds thus obtained were used, inter alia, to build blocks of flats. the flats were distributed to employees, who acquired protected tenancies in respect of them and other already existing socially owned flats. each publicly owned company drew up a list of persons to be granted specially protected tenancies. the applicant moved into the flat and has been living there ever since. on 27 march 1990 the housing committee of company s. drew up a priority list for the distribution of flats. on 23 april 1990 the company’s workers’ council approved the priority list. on 9 and 15 may 1990, respectively, two other employees of company s. brought an action before the competent court, seeking to have the priority list declared null and void. a civil action could be brought to challenge the decision on allocation of a flat but not to challenge a priority list. on 23 june 2004 the zagreb county court amended the judgment of 3 february 1999 so as to declare the actions inadmissible on the same grounds, namely that the priority list could not be challenged before a court of law. on 29 november 1995 the applicant asked the zagreb municipality as the owner of the flat to conclude a contract for the sale of the flat with herself as the buyer. however, once those proceedings had ended, all of the conditions for recognition of her specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue had been met. on 11 may 2012 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint on the grounds that the findings of the lower courts that she had not acquired a specially protected tenancy of the flat at issue had been correct. it further held that the decisions the applicant had relied on concerned persons who had had specially protected tenancies which they had subsequently lost.
the applicants were born in 1975 and 1976 and live in cahul and cetireni respectively. 8 from the electricity, water and heating supplies. on 10 july 2003 the last of the people who were ill with tuberculosis were transferred to a newly-built hospital wing in pruncul prison hospital, situated in moldova. he was released on parole on 14 april 2005. 8 and the unsuccessful negotiations with the local authorities. on 29 august 2003 the chdom asked the bender district court (which is part of the moldovan court system) to order the prosecutor’s office to remedy the human rights violations taking place in prison no. according to the moldovan government, on 18 november 2003 the bender prosecutor’s office contacted the “mrt” authorities with a view to prosecuting those responsible for disconnecting prison no. on 1 march 2004 the chdom asked the bender prosecutor’s office what action had been taken pursuant to the above-mentioned court decisions. on 19 may 2004 the supreme court of justice rejected the request and left the case with the bender district court. the claimants (the detainees) and their representatives were not consulted. the same thing occurred on 29 october 2008. the court also informed the chdom that, in a letter dated 2 july 2007, the ministry of justice had informed the court that a representative of the russian federation could only be summoned via the ministry of justice. it awarded each of them damages in the amount of eur 200, to be paid by the moldovan ministry of finance, and eur 500, to be paid by the russian ministry of finance. the court found that, despite the applicants’ representatives’ actions contributing to the overall length of the proceedings (twenty-six out of the sixty-seven months), a breach of the right to a trial within a reasonable time had taken place, requiring additional compensation which it set at mdl 6,000 (approximately eur 358 at the time). relevant reports of inter-governmental and non‑governmental organisations 37.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. on 5 april 2004 the vyborgskiy district court of st petersburg (“the vyborgskiy district court”) declared the applicant legally incapable in her absence. on 11 october 2004 the vyborgskiy district court rejected the applicant’s latest request that the court examine her appeal. the applicant thus regained her legal capacity. on 7 march 2008 an emergency doctor was called to attend to the applicant and found that she required hospitalisation. the lawyer supported his complaint with a copy of the power of attorney that the applicant had issued to him on 21 june 2005 for her application to the court. it relied on the applicant’s medical history since 2001 and her state of health leading to her hospitalisation in 2008. she then said that she wanted to go home and did not wish to continue her treatment. on 17 march 2011 the st petersburg city court dismissed an appeal lodged by the applicant, having fully endorsed the petrodvortsovyy district court’s reasoning. however, on 6 august 2013 the petrodvortsovyy district court confirmed its previous decision stripping the applicant of her full capacity, having stated that the amendment to the law had not yet entered into force. on 28 november 2013 the st petersburg city court upheld the judgment on appeal. the judgment of 29 june 2009 was not appealed against and it therefore became final. the applicant allegedly learnt that he had been stripped of legal capacity only in 2012. having found that in 2003 the dmitrovskiy district court had examined the applicant’s case in his absence despite the lack of any information on the applicant’s ability to attend, the moscow regional court quashed the judgment of 7 august 2003. it then proceeded to re-examine the merits of the case.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in senica. the applicant was also charged with aggravated coercion, extortion, and causing bodily harm. it relied on the particularly serious and organised nature of the offences he was charged with, and held that there was a real danger that he might influence witnesses and contact other perpetrators in order to tamper with evidence. on 16 march 2007 the special court extended the applicant’s detention until 3 october 2007. on 17 april 2007 the police investigator charged the applicant with another count of extortion. the court took into account the complexity of the criminal investigation, finding that there had been no undue delays. on 17 march 2008 the applicant’s detention was extended until 7 july 2008. on 26 march 2008 the supreme court dismissed an interlocutory appeal by the applicant. the bill of indictment concerned sixteen criminal acts, eighteen defendants and fourteen victims. on 25 june 2008 the special court examined the grounds for the applicant’s detention and ruled that he should remain in detention. it held that several witnesses were afraid to testify against him in his presence and had thus been heard in his absence. he remained in detention pending the outcome of an appeal. on 8 december 2011 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s rights under article 5 § 4 of the convention. although the supreme court had examined in detail the applicant’s arguments regarding the grounds for his detention, it had failed to respond to his other arguments, such as one about the impartiality and independence of the tribunal reviewing his detention, and another about alleged shortcomings in his representation during the judicial review, and thus the court had breached article 5 § 4 of the convention. the hearings were scheduled on a monthly or near monthly basis.
the applicants were born in 1935, 1945 and 1956 respectively and live in ploieşti. the first applicant is one of the inventors. the second and third applicants are heirs of the other members of the group. the second and third applicants appealed, and in a decision of 8 november 2002 the braşov court of appeal also awarded them compensation – rol 2,230,620,676 to the second applicant and rol 1,669,759,157 to the third applicant. on 10 march 2004 the applicants and company r. signed an agreement for the payment of the compensation awarded by the court. on 5 may 2005 the high court of cassation and justice took note of the terms of the agreement of 10 march 2004 and concluded that company r. had withdrawn its appeal on points of law against the decision of 8 november 2002 (see paragraph 7 above), which thus became final. 64/1995 on judicial reorganisation and bankruptcy. the applicants’ claims were accepted by the county court and recorded in the register of claims compiled by the judicial administrator in conformity with the provisions of the applicable law (tabloul creditorilor, hereinafter “the register of claims”). the applicants lodged an objection to the register of claims, asking to be recognised as priority creditors (creditori privilegiaţi). in 2006 company r. paid its debts in accordance with the plan. on 11 october 2007 the braşov county court held a hearing on the objections to the register of claims lodged by the applicants. the first applicant was present at the hearing to represent both himself and the other applicants. the county court gave its judgment on 1 november 2007; it found against the applicants. on 13 february 2008 they lodged an appeal by post. 1137 of 4 december 2007 (see paragraph 21 below), the court of appeal considered that the notification procedure via the bulletin had offered sufficient safeguards to the participants in the proceedings, and had been justified by the nature of the insolvency procedure.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chișinău. the applicant is the chief executive officer of a large moldovan company specialised in the importation of medical equipement. he was charged with bribery in the context of public auctions. more than twenty persons were accused in the same criminal case. after arrest the applicant was placed in the nac detention facility. on 10 april 2015 the buiucani district court issued a detention order for a period of thirty days arguing that the applicant did not produce guarantees in favour of an undertaking not to hinder the good unfolding of the investigation if no detention was applied. that decision was later upheld by the chișinău court of appeal, which added that there was also a risk of the applicant’s reoffending. the applicant’s appeal was rejected by the court of appeal on 14 may 2015. the court relied on similar reasons as before. the court did not state what that evidence was. however, the prison administration refused to follow the doctors’ prescription. at 11.44 a.m. an ambulance was called again for the applicant. the doctors diagnosed again “lumbar radiculopathy” and discopathie with a possible lesion of the nerve. on 11 april 2015 the applicant was operated on his spine at the institute of neurology and neurosurgery. after three days of preparations, he was subjected to surgery on 6 august 2015 and remained in intensive care for another week.
the applicants were born in 1939 and 1944 respectively and live in dumbrăvița, timiș county. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011) and şandru and others v. romania (no. between 17 and 28 december 1989 many people, including the applicants’ son, participated in anti-communism demonstrations in timișoara, bucharest and other cities in romania. the applicants’ son was killed by gunfire on 23 december 1989 in timișoara. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations. 11/p/1996, culminating in the referral to court and subsequent conviction of senior military officers by a decision of the high court of cassation and justice of 3 april 2007, which became final on 15 october 2008. as is apparent from the documents submitted by the parties, the death of the applicants’ son did not form part of this investigation, but in the court proceedings the first applicant nonetheless lodged a civil claim regarding his son’s death during the december 1989 events. the court dismissed it on the grounds that he had failed to submit documents substantiating this claim. as acknowledged by the government, both applicants are parties in the main criminal investigation file. on 26 june 2013 they brought civil claims before the prosecutor requesting the right to participate, being civil parties in this file. the applicants had first made statements and raised civil claims in criminal investigation files other than file no. 97/p/1990 (current number 11/p/2014) on 11 january 1990 and 1 march 2000. the parties did not inform the court whether these files had been joined to the main criminal investigation (see paragraph 8 above). 43629/13 and 74 others, §§ 10‑11, 7 november 2017). although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it is apparent from the prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed and to date the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others, cited above, § 11).
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in atyrau, kazakhstan. in june 2011 the applicant arrived in turkey. on the same day a police officer from denizli security headquarters held a preliminary interview with the applicant. the officer, however, found it established that the applicant feared to be returned to his country and that it was known to the turkish authorities that he would be prosecuted if returned to kazakhstan. on 29 november 2011 the applicant objected to the rejection of his asylum application. the embassy accordingly requested the turkish authorities not to grant asylum to them and to extradite them to kazakhstan. on 19 january 2012, while he was waiting at istanbul atatürk airport to board a flight to egypt, the applicant was taken into police custody on the basis of the extradition request submitted to the turkish authorities by the kazakhstan embassy. on 23 january 2012 the interpol-europol department attached to the general police headquarters informed the ministry of justice and a number of security departments that a red notice had been issued by kazakhstan via interpol in respect of the applicant on the basis of terrorism-related offences. on 24 january 2012 the bakırköy magistrates court ordered the applicant’s detention within the context of the extradition proceedings for a period of forty days. on 25 january 2012 the applicant lodged a petition with the bakırköy assize court and challenged his detention. on 7 march 2012 the deputy director of general security ordered the istanbul police headquarters to deport the applicant. upon a request by the applicant’s lawyer, on 31 may 2012 the istanbul police headquarters sent a letter to the applicant’s lawyer informing him that the applicant had been deported to kazakhstan on 12 march 2012. m. on the second floor there were five dormitories measuring 50, 58, 69, 76 and 84 sq. there were also five showers and six toilets per floor, as well as a cafeteria measuring 69 sq. as for the hygiene in the facility, there were six cleaning staff working full time.
the applicant was born in 1989 and is detained in atyrau, kazakhstan. in january 2010 he was asked to go to a police station as a friend of his had informed the police that the applicant had witnessed a fight between him and another friend of the applicant. on that day a statement was taken from him by the police. he was eventually released from police custody. the applicant considered that he had been subjected to ill-treatment because he was a practising muslim who worshipped and who wore a beard. he then went to syria twice and also to georgia. on 21 may 2011 the applicant re-entered turkey on a tourist visa. on 15 june 2011 a police officer conducted an interview with the applicant in the context of his application to be granted asylum. the lawyer asked the authorities to review their decision and to conduct a second interview with the applicant. he received no response to his application. on 22 march 2012 mr a. yılmaz lodged an application with the ankara administrative court for the annulment of the decisions of the ministry rejecting the applicant’s asylum application and to deport the applicant from turkey. between 9 june and 13 september 2011 the applicant was detained at the kumkapı foreigners’ removal centre. he had not been allowed exercise outdoor or any other type of social activity throughout his detention. there were four dormitory rooms on the first floor, measuring 50, 58, 76 and 84 sq. as for the hygiene in the facility, there were six cleaning staff working full time and cleaning products, such as soap, were provided on a regular basis.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in chişinău. the applicant was residing at the material time in brussels, belgium. each time, the reasons for his detention were that it was an exceptional case, that there was a reasonable suspicion that he had committed serious offences punishable by imprisonment, that the criminal case was complex and that if released the applicant could interfere with the investigation, influence the witnesses and victims, re-offend or abscond (as he had earlier been declared a wanted person). on 22 february 2012 the bălți court of appeal, acting as a court of first instance, acquitted the applicant and ordered his release from detention. the total surface was of 3 square metres, with no bed, chair, toilet facilities or washstand. in addition, the applicant had no daily walks outside his cell. the applicant was detained with seven to twelve other inmates. he was detained there with twelve other detainees. the cell was equipped with twelve wooden beds. on the date of his arrival he was not fed. the cell was equipped with only fourteen beds and the detainees had to sleep in turns. on 30 december 2010 the applicant lodged a complaint with the prosecutor’s office complaining about the poor conditions of detention. in a reply dated 10 january 2011, the prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that his complaint about the poor conditions of detention was well founded and that following a control carried out in prison no. on 15 january 2011 the applicant was transferred to cell no. 21 with a total surface of 16 square metres.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently detained in chișinău. she was not provided with bedding and was not able to sleep normally. on 30 march 2011 she was released from detention and was placed under house arrest. on 26 january 2012, after having been declared a wanted person, the applicant was again arrested and again placed in detention in prison no. on 5 june 2013 the applicant was again placed in detention in prison no. on 10 june 2013 the centru district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced her to thirteen years and six months’ imprisonment. 108 and 110, each designed to hold eight detainees and measuring 18 sq. 13, she was not provided the medical assistance required for her condition. in both detention facilities there was no specialist oncologist and chemotherapy was unavailable. the government submitted that from 24 april 2010 to 9 july 2012 the applicant had refused on several occasions to be hospitalised either in the prison hospital (prison no. on two occasions the applicant had refused to undergo inpatient treatment at the institute of oncology, which was a specialist civilian hospital. accordingly, specific types of treatment such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy were available. the delegation was informed during the 2015 visit that the opening of a new 1,500-place remand prison in the chișinău area, financed in large part by a loan from the council of europe development bank, was now envisaged for june 2018. the moldovan authorities recognised that the size of the prison population and the resulting overcrowding in prisons constituted a major challenge. in both prisons, the delegation received complaints from female prisoners regarding difficulties in obtaining hygiene products.
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in canada. these were: abrasions on the left part of the applicant’s forehead (αριστερή μετωπιαία χώρα) and left shoulder blade (ωμοπλάτη). at approximately 4.45 p.m. while the applicant was at the hospital he was presented with the arrest warrant and was detained on that basis. they also hit me on the head with the chair several times. he did not mention any injuries in his statement. had been injured while trying to arrest the applicant and that he had been put on sick leave by the doctor who had examined him at the hospital. on 10 october 2011 the investigator prepared a report with a summary of the statements obtained and his findings. who had guarded the applicant from 7.40 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. at the hospital, in his statement of 31 august 2011 stated that he had noticed that the applicant had had various injuries (χτυπήματα) but he could not remember whether they had been on the face or the body. in his statement of 18 september 2011 stated that he could not remember the applicant’s teeth or what type of scratches the applicant had had on his face. - the applicant had stated that they had taken everything from him in the car yet according to the evidence given by constable p.p. - the applicant had described a savage beating but had stated that during an interval he had spoken to his lawyer, c.h.. the investigator considered it odd that the officers, knowing that the applicant had spoken to his lawyer, would have continued to beat him after the call as he had alleged. with regard to the allegations of ill-treatment raised by the applicant, the court pointed out, inter alia, that the applicant had failed to submit a medical report with reference to his alleged injuries and had only produced a receipt for the medical examination by dr s.j. she had also asked her assistant to take a statement from him. had failed to ask the officers about the applicant’s injuries and how they had happened; nor had he asked constable p.p., lastly, the investigators expressed their concern about the fact that the investigator a.s had kept the i.s.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 2007 respectively and live in i̇zmir. on 25 october 2008, as the first applicant was driving in i̇zmir with his wife and one year-old daughter in the back seat, he lost control of his car when the road curved into a sharp bend. as a result, the car dropped into an empty concrete canal running along the right-hand side of the road, some five to six metres below the level of the road. after the accident the first applicant was taken to a police station to give a statement. however, since the barrier had been damaged prior to the incident, it had not stopped the car and, therefore, the car had dropped down into the empty canal. he claimed that he had lost control of the car as a result of the dangerous bend in the road. the first applicant admitted before the public prosecutor that he had lost control of the car as he had been taking the bend. that judgment, which was not appealed against by the first applicant, became final on 23 december 2008. on 20 may 2009 the applicants brought an action for compensation before the i̇zmir administrative court against the municipality alone, arguing that the latter had been responsible for yeşim çakır’s death on account of its failure to repair the crash barrier in a timely manner, as well as the possible structural problems with the road. the applicants submitted to the administrative court as evidence the expert report ordered by the i̇zmir magistrates’ court (see paragraph 15 above). the municipality once again denied responsibility for the maintenance of the crash barrier in question, but also stated that in any event, sole responsibility for the accident lay with the first applicant, who had lost control of his car despite the road signs warning of a sharp bend ahead. they requested an expert examination on that matter. on 16 april 2010 the applicants once again requested an expert examination of the road in order to establish any structural problems that may have triggered the accident. it appears that the administrative court did not obtain the information requested by the applicants. it therefore rejected the applicants’ claims against the municipality.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in novocheboksarsk. on 10 april 2007 the applicant was stopped by police officers on a street near his home and taken to district police station no. 1 of novocheboksarsk to have his identity checked. at the police station a district police officer (участковый уполномоченный милиции), officer m. from the novocheboksarsk town police station, who wore a police uniform, threatened the applicant by saying that a criminal case against him would be opened, grabbed him by his clothing, violently pushed him backwards against a wall several times and punched his left ear. according to a forensic medical expert’s report, the applicant had a traumatic rupture of the left eardrum with a haemorrhage, which caused a short-term – lasting between six and twenty-one days – health disorder. accordingly, this qualified as “insignificant” health damage. 5 of 10 october 2003, the domestic courts were to apply the convention in accordance with the case-law of the european court of human rights (“the court”). he stated that his claim had been calculated based on the sum awarded by the court in the case of ribitsch, in which a violation of article 3 of the convention had been found on account of inhuman and degrading treatment in police custody (see ribitsch v. austria, 4 december 1995, series a no. on 6 april 2009 the town court allowed the applicant’s civil claim in part. it noted that, under article 61 § 4 of the code of civil procedure, a judgment in a criminal case which had become enforceable was binding on a court examining the civil-law consequences of the acts of a person against whom the judgment had been delivered, in so far as it established whether those acts had taken place and whether they had been committed by that person. article 53 of the constitution and articles 151 and 1069 of the civil code provided for state liability for harm caused to individuals by state agents. relying on articles 1099-1101 of the civil code of the russian federation and section 8 of the plenary supreme court resolution no. the applicant appealed against the judgment. it disagreed with the applicant that, in determining the amount of compensation for non‑pecuniary damage, the domestic courts had to be guided by the amounts of such compensation awarded by the court in similar cases, stating as follows:“indeed, in accordance with article 15 § 4 of the constitution of the russian federation, commonly recognised principles and norms of international law and international agreements of the russian federation are an integral part of [the russian federation’s] legal system. the determination of the amount of compensation for non-pecuniary damage in specific cases is the prerogative of national courts examining such cases.”
the applicant is a roman catholic community in bosnia and herzegovina, based in sarajevo. by decision of 9 may 2003, which became final and binding on 4 september 2003, the human rights chamber for bosnia and herzegovina (“the chamber”) found that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) had discriminated against the applicant in its enjoyment of the right to freedom of religion guaranteed by article 9 of the convention. the chamber rejected a request by the applicant for pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages. by an agreement of 21 may 2004, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina undertook to reinstate the applicant in the impugned premises by 1 july 2006. shortly thereafter, the travnik municipal council adopted the implementing decisions, and also one of the public schools was moved from the premises. on 23 june 2010 the travnik municipal council issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 5 october 2011 the travnik cantonal court quashed that decision and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 3 july 2012 the travnik municipal court held that the decisions of the chamber were not subject to enforcement proceedings. on 12 july 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision. at the date of the latest information available to the court (28 august 2017), the travnik cantonal court had not yet ruled on the matter. on 30 october 2012 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina determined that the federation of bosnia and herzegovina had not yet fully enforced the decision of 9 may 2003. on 14 july 2017 the municipal court in travnik rendered a judgment in the applicant’s favour, rewarding in full its claims finally specified in the proceedings, namely 270,360 convertible marks (bam)[1] for pecuniary damages and 6,713 bam for costs and expenses. the municipal court also ordered the respondent to vacate the applicant’s premises within 30 days from receiving the judgment. on 20 december 2017 the cantonal court in novi travnik upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. it also appears that the public school has still not been relocated.
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, § 12-41, 24 may 2011). the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, brașov and vișina which led to the fall of the communist regime. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. in a number of cases the prosecutor decided between 1991 and 1996 not to open an investigation or to discontinue the proceedings. the most important procedural steps were described in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41), and also in ecaterina mirea and others v. romania (nos. 43626/13 and 69 others, §§ 6-15, 12 april 2016). subsequent relevant domestic decisions are shown below. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaints were partly statute-barred, partly subject to an amnesty, and partly ill-founded. it also found that some of the occurrences could not be classified as offences and some were res judicatae (see anamaria-loredana orășanu and others v. romania [committee], no. the decision of 14 october 2015 was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation in file no. 11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date. up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the hearing of military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television. at the date of the latest information available to the court (submitted by the parties on 13 april 2017 and 19 may 2017), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in tbilisi. on 6 january 2006 the applicant was placed in tbilisi prison no. 7”) to serve the sentences referred to in paragraphs 7-8 above. it later became apparent that the bed in question belonged to the applicant. the prison officers who had conducted the search on 8 august 2006 were summonsed by the trial court as witnesses for the prosecution. that information was essential for the purposes of assessing whether or not the search had been conducted in a manner involving an abuse of his rights. as is apparent from the transcript of the trial, when questioned in the period between 12 and 21 february 2007 by the trial court as witnesses for the prosecution, the prison officers gave statements concerning the exact circumstances in which the knife had been discovered that were somewhat different. as is apparent from the transcript of the trial, the public prosecutor conceded that the video recording of the search did not establish with certainty where exactly the knife had been found. the applicant further complained during his last pleading before the trial court on 23 february 2007 of the inability to have the witnesses on his behalf, the seven cellmates, examined under the same conditions as those for the prosecution. he was sentenced to three years in prison. suddenly, there was a sound of metal hitting the floor, and an officer picked up an object, which resembled a small penknife. on 10 november he was transferred to the prison hospital. during the intensive period of the treatment, which lasted three months, the applicant was kept in the prison hospital under the close supervision of medical personnel with the appropriate training. upon completion of the dots programme on 13 january 2008, the applicant’s sputum culture was subjected to another set of comprehensive laboratory tests, the results of which confirmed that tb bacilli were no longer present in the applicant’s organism. he wrote a note to that effect, which was dated 2 june 2010.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in batelov. in 1965 he had a sexual relationship with a woman who gave birth to a daughter, z., on 2 march 1966. as the applicant denied that he was the father, z.’s legal guardian brought proceedings on her behalf in the jihlava district court (okresní soud) for a declaration of paternity. on 23 april 1970 the district court found that the applicant was z.’s father and ordered him to contribute to her maintenance. the court reached its finding after hearing evidence from several witnesses. in addition, it established that the applicant had had intercourse with the mother sometime between 300 and 180 days before z.’s birth. another man had also had intercourse with the mother at the crucial time, however, the blood test established that he was not the father. it eventually upheld the judgment of the district court on 2 june 1970, which became final on 10 june 1970. in 2011 the applicant requested that the prosecutor general (nejvyšší státní zástupce) challenge his paternity in court. by a letter of 21 june 2011 he was informed that the requirements of article 62 of the family code to initiate such proceedings had not been met. z., by that time an adult, did not want to challenge paternity, it was not in her interests and the applicant had not produced any expert evidence credibly disproving it. on 29 february 2012 the applicant and z. underwent a dna examination. the resulting report of 19 april 2012 unequivocally confirmed that the applicant was not z.’s father. he also argued that articles 61 § 1 and 62 § 1 of the family code were unconstitutional. it noted that his paternity had been established by a judicial decision which had come into legal force and stated, inter alia, that the competence of the prosecutor general could only apply if all the legal requirements had been fulfilled, which was not, however, the applicant’s case.
the applicants’ years of birth and home addresses are listed in the appendix. nida is governed by a board of members composed of seven people. the decisions charging the applicants were made on various dates but by the same investigator. the relevant part of the decision concerning the first applicant stated:“... rashad zeynalabdin oglu hasanov has been charged on the basis of sufficient charging evidence because in early march 2013 in baku, in an organised group with b.g., it appears from the transcripts of the court hearings before the nasimi district court available in the case file that the applicants denied the charges against them, stating that their arrest was related to their social and political engagement. he claimed, in particular, that his detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 27 april 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding it unfounded. no further extension decisions were included in the case file. in that connection, he submitted that more time was needed to complete the investigation. on 17 july 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding that the grounds for his pre-trial detention had not changed. on 25 july 2013 the baku court of appeal upheld the first-instance court’s decision. on 17 september 2013 the prosecutor lodged a request with the court asking for an extension of the second applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months. on 17 april 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request. on 2 june 2015 the supreme court upheld the appellate court’s judgment in respect of the first and third applicants. in the meantime, on 29 december 2014 the second and third applicants were released from serving the remainder of their sentence after being pardoned by a presidential decree.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in kumanovo. at the same time the investigating judge ordered that the applicant be held in pre-trial detention for thirty days, starting from 25 december 2009. as to the risk of absconding and reoffending, the judge relied on the gravity of the charges, the potential penalty, the circumstances under which the alleged offences had been committed and the links between the suspects. the panel based its decision on the same reasons as before. in the course of the proceedings, the prosecutor withdrew the charge of abuse of office and amended the extortion charge to one of violence (насилство). on 24 march 2010 a three-judge panel ordered another thirty-day extension of the pre-trial detention of the applicant and other accused. the panels had referred to his family situation and possessions, without providing an explanation for why they considered that those circumstances were not sufficient to guarantee his presence at trial. in that connection, the allegations made by the accused in his appeal are of no relevance and cannot be accepted as sufficient evidence that the accused, if released, will not abscond. meanwhile, the applicant made several unsuccessful applications for release on bail. on 3 june 2010 the court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the panel’s decision. as security, he offered immovable property owned by third persons (accompanied by written statements by the owners certified by a notary public), whose value was estimated at eur 1,230,614. furthermore, another person offered to make a court deposit of eur 100,000. it also took into account his previous history of being in conflict with the law and the fact that he had been convicted for similar offences by a first-instance judgment in another set of criminal proceedings. the applicant appealed against the panel’s decision. it further ordered that the applicant be put under house arrest.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1964 respectively and live in plovdiv. underwent a medical examination, which revealed several bruises on her head, neck, arms and knees. with whom he had previously had an intimate relationship, and that she had accepted the invitation. stated that while he was out, she had had consensual sex with mr dimitrov and that later on, after drinking the coffees brought back by mr momin, the three of them had taken a taxi and she had returned home. on 10 march 1999 the prosecutor in charge of the investigation returned the file to the investigator for further inquiries. his request was rejected on 2 july 2001 by the prosecutor i.p., the plovdiv district court examined the criminal case between 14 january 2004 and 21 february 2007. ’s statement of 19 december 2000 in evidence. the court also heard evidence from the two applicants, the three police officers who had attended to s.d. in addition, it heard the opinion of a medical expert on the nature and origin of the injuries found on s.d. ’s statement, the findings of the expert medical opinion and the statements of the other witnesses questioned. in that connection, the court noted that the victim had changed her account during the investigation, that it had not had the opportunity to examine her in person, that the other witnesses had portrayed s.d. mr dimitrov had threatened her and hit her several times. part of the statements by the applicants and mr dimitrov’s employer, the findings of the site inspection report and the photographs taken in the course of the inspection, various items of documentary evidence, the findings of the initial medical examination of the victim and the two additional medical examinations, and the two psychiatric examinations of the applicants. on 19 december 2000 had not been violated.
the applicant company is engaged in the cultivation of mussels in castlemaine harbour in co. kerry, one of several sites in ireland where this commercial activity is exercised. ... [r]egarding the aquaculture programmes, the commission relies, essentially, on the review of the aquaculture licensing system in ireland carried out in 2000 by birdwatch ireland as the basis for its view that ireland has systematically failed to carry out a proper assessment of those projects situated in spas or likely to have effects on spas, contrary to article 6(3) and (4) of the habitats directive. accordingly, when granting authorisation for mussel seed fishing for the period 9 june to 1 july 2008, he prohibited it in 24 locations around the irish coast, including castlemaine harbour (statutory instrument no. according to the applicant company, there was no viable replacement for local mussel seed. in early september 2008, the marine institute submitted to the department a finalised study entitled “fisheries in natura 2000”. this was one of multiple assessments which the respondent state had to undertake in light of the cjeu judgment. in october 2009 the applicant company sought discovery of documents on a voluntary basis. the applicant company issued an amended statement of claim on 19 august 2011, which referred to the restrictions applied in 2009 and 2010 as well. it awarded the other local company 125,000 euros. it might be said that, by allowing aquaculture to continue prior to 2008, the minister had actually had regard to the applicant company’s interests, even at the cost of failed adherence to eu law. it was not just and reasonable to impose liability in the circumstances of the case. he did not consider that the minister had owed a duty of care to the plaintiffs in 2008. yet it was hard to argue that castlemaine harbour was more deserving than the other locations. there was no discretion vested in the minister to exempt any economic actor from eu rules. concerning the events of 2010, he noted that the applicant company had not provided evidence allowing a causal link to be established between the alleged failure on the part of the minister and its inability to conduct its business that year.
the list of applicants is set out in the appended tables. the applicants were employees of a municipal education institution. on 13 june 2001 they brought proceedings before the kolomna town court of the moscow region (“the town court”) against their employer and the town administration seeking recovery of unpaid wages and taxes to various social funds. on 13 july 2004 the kolomna town court issued a first-instance judgment on the merits of the case. on 22 september 2004 the moscow regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 7 july 2005 the town court granted the applicants’ claims awarding each of them a certain amount against their employer (see appendix i). the judgment was upheld on appeal by the moscow regional court on 28 september 2005. between 26 june 2001 and 7 july 2005 the court hearings were adjourned twenty-five times due to the respondents’ or one of the respondents’ failure to appear, eighteen times on the claimants’ request and eleven times pursuant the requests by the defendants; four times the first‑instance court adjourned the case as the respondent authorities had been requested to submit additional documents. moreover, on 11 june 2002 the proceedings were suspended pursuant to a decision by the domestic court on account of the claimants’ alleged failure to appear; on 4 february 2003 that decision was quashed by the appeal court, due to the first-instance court’s failure to notify the applicants of the hearing date. thus, the period attributable to the authorities amounts to over one year. on an unspecified date in 2005 the employer institution was liquidated. on 18 october 2005 the relevant record was made into the state register of legal entities. according to the government’s submissions of 19 july 2011, on 30 june 2006 the judgment of 7 july 2005 was partially enforced in respect of certain applicants, as specified in appendix i.
the first applicant was born in 1915 and lived in vilnius. the ministry of environment, which was a third party in the proceedings, asked the court to allow the prosecutor’s claim. ’s property rights to 0.187 hectares of land, as well as the applicants’ rights to that part of the plot. the applicants and the vca lodged appeals against that decision. on 6 april 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the appeals submitted by the applicants and the vca and upheld the decision of the first-instance court in its entirety. on 14 december 2012 the nls approved the list of candidates to receive plots of land in several areas around vilnius. it also submitted that the decision to give the forest in question to the applicant and g.d. on 13 december 2010 the nls informed the applicant that, in accordance with the law, her property rights could be restored by assigning her a plot of land equal in value to the land held previously or by providing securities, but that there was no possibility of her receiving a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in a city. on 23 july 2012 the nls sent a letter to the applicant confirming that, after the courts had annulled her property rights to one hectare of land (see paragraph 41 above), she had retained the right to have those property rights restored. the applicant argued that if authorities or officials had acted unlawfully, the state should have to buy the land from her, and that the public interest should be protected without prejudice to her rights. it observed that it had no authority to directly order the vca to complete the restoration of the applicant’s property rights within that period of time, but that “the activity of the vca or its successor in the restitution process could constitute grounds for reducing the possible expenses of that institution, if [the applicant and j.s.] the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. on 23 february 2012 the applicant received a letter from the nls confirming that she had retained the right to have her property rights to 0.15 hectares of land restored. on 24 july 2012 the applicant received another letter from the nls. on 18 may 2016 the nls sent a letter to the applicant inviting her to attend a meeting of candidates on 1 june 2016 in which she would be offered a plot.
the first applicant is a russian national who was born in 1951 and lives in volzhskiy, in the volgograd region. on 11 april 2006 an official from the fms seized her russian passport, which was later destroyed. the fms referred to a report of 26 january 2006 on a check carried out by the agencies of the interior, according to which the first applicant had never properly acquired russian citizenship and therefore had no right to be in possession of a russian passport. on 20 march 2007 the fms issued report no. according to the second applicant, between 1987 and 2010 he lived in the rostov region. 1 of taganrog, in the rostov region, issued the second applicant with a russian passport. the second applicant received a verbal refusal to issue him with a new passport. on 27 september 2010 the kostroma region fms issued a decision to the effect that the second applicant was not a russian citizen. the head of the fms ... issued a decision to the effect that [the second applicant] was not a russian citizen. [ it noted that, as a result of a check carried out pursuant to sections 51 and 52 of the 2002 regulation on the examination of issues related to citizenship of the russian federation, the fms had found that the second applicant had been issued with a russian passport in breach of the applicable rules, and was not entitled to russian citizenship. in particular, it had not been confirmed that he had been living in russia on 6 february 1992. the court further dismissed the second applicant’s argument that the fact that he had been using the previously issued russian passport for eight years constituted a valid reason to exchange the passport. the court found that his passport was invalid regardless. the appeal court noted, in particular, that the certificate issued by the rostov region fms on 30 june 2010 showed that a russian passport had been issued to the second applicant on the basis of a certificate of 23 december 1998 issued by the department of the interior of the leninskiy district of rostov-on-don confirming that he was a russian citizen in accordance with section 13(1) of the 1991 law on citizenship of the russian federation. on 25 march 2013, following the entry into force of law no.
in 2005 the applicant, an information technology specialist, moved from kazakhstan to the krasnodar region in russia to live with his parents and brother, o.z., on 23 december 2008 the kazakh authorities provided the applicant, upon his request, with an official statement certifying that he had no criminal record in kazakhstan. the applicant had requested the document with view to applying for russian nationality through the simplified procedure for spouses of russian nationals. on 13 august 2009 the fsb informed the applicant about a decision it had made on the undesirability of his presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting him from re-entering the country until july 2014 (hereinafter “the exclusion order”). from the documents submitted to the court, it is unclear whether the fsb presented the regional court with any evidence concerning the applicant’s case, other than its letter to the applicant of 13 august 2009 (see paragraph 10 above) and copies of the relevant legal provisions governing the activities of the fsb and the applicable immigration regulations. he has never committed any crime, either in russia or kazakhstan. he does not represent a threat to the security of the russian federation. he does not have a place to live in kazakhstan. there is no evidence of any alleged criminal activities ...... the fsb decided on the undesirability of mr zezev’s presence (residence) in russia and on prohibiting his re-entry into the country until july 2014. he pointed out that the fsb had not furnished any evidence to the court of alleged activities by him that posed a threat to national security. the applicant further stated that even though he was a kazakh national he was an ethnic russian, did not speak kazakh, and had nowhere to live in kazakhstan as his parents had also moved to russia in 2005. it appears from the case file that the sanction was not enforced as, according to the applicant, he informed the local authorities that he had an application pending before the court. then the police detained him on the spot and took him to the court. on 26 december 2013 the applicant was deported from russia. on an unspecified date in february 2014 the applicant attempted to re-enter russia but was informed at the border that he was banned from entering until 31 july 2014.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in prague. a russian citizen, with whom in 2009 she had a daughter, also a russian national. the applicant and her family lived in st petersburg. the applicant lived in russia on the basis of regularly extended residence permits. on 15 october 2013 the applicant applied for russian citizenship. on 21 july 2014 the fms revoked the applicant’s residence permit, referring to the fsb’s recommendation. on 5 august 2014 the applicant was informed by fms that this revocation decision had been taken. on 6 august 2014 the applicant complained before the frunzenskiy district court of st petersburg (hereinafter “the district court”), alleging that the decision to annul her residence permit had been groundless. on 8 august 2014 the district court refused to stay the enforcement of the decision. on 10 november 2014 the complaint was forwarded to the city court, as the domestic regulations stipulated that the courts at regional level were to examine cases involving state secrets. it held that the fsb report and the recommendation had been issued in accordance with the statutory procedure and that they had therefore been lawful. in its decision, the court stated, in particular:“... the allegations of the applicant’s representatives concerning the failure of the representatives of the federal security service to submit proof showing the necessity to send the impugned letter [recommending that the residence permit be revoked] to the federal migration service are unsubstantiated, as the federal security service’s information note on ms gaspar as presented to the court does not contain any such information.” lastly, counsel stated that the decision at issue had disrupted the applicant’s family life. on 29 april 2015 the supreme court examined the appeal in camera and upheld the decision of the city court. consequently, the applicant’s counsel was not allowed access to the document, in spite of the confidentiality undertaking.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in istanbul. 3167 – in force at the material time – for issuing an uncovered cheque. the cheque bore the applicant’s name underneath the name of the company of which he was president of the executive board, and the address of the company on the cheque was indicated as being “... bakırköy / istanbul”. on 2 september 1999 the trial court held a preparatory hearing (tensip) and ordered that a summons be served on the applicant. post box] 5 bakırköy” as an alternative address. between 14 february 2000 and 13 october 2004 the trial court waited for the detention order to be executed. at the police station, the applicant was informed that an arrest warrant had been issued against him following his conviction by a criminal court, and that he would be put in prison unless he paid the 500 turkish liras (try)[1] fine previously imposed by the court. on 5 may 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal with the bakırköy criminal court of first instance, challenging the judgment in question on the grounds that it had been delivered in his absence and the accusations against him were ill-founded. had failed to do so, alleging that she had lost it. 7201, and the appeal should therefore have been submitted by 8 november 2004. he emphasised that, although his accurate address details could easily have been obtained from the mayor of the neighbourhood, the judgment of october 2004 had been served at the address which his company had moved out of on 15 april 1999. in his absence, it had apparently been posted on the door of the building. he therefore requested that the judgment which had been delivered in his absence be quashed or rectified. on 21 september 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation delivered her opinion on the applicant’s appeal, where she requested that the first-instance court’s judgment of 5 may 2006 be quashed on account of the unlawful service of the initial judgment rendered in his absence. on 26 november 2006 the applicant was conditionally released.
the applicant was born in 1971 and is serving a prison sentence in vilnius. by a judgment of 20 october 2011, the kaunas city district court convicted the applicant of having caused physical pain to each of the boys (article 140 § 2 of the criminal code) and of attempting to influence a witness (article 233 § 1 of the criminal code – see paragraph 69 below). stated that she was very much afraid of the applicant. on 20 march 2012 the applicant lodged a written request for the prosecutor to stage a confrontation between him and the two children. he argued that they had incriminated the applicant when questioned by the experts only because they had been swayed by their mother. the applicant also asked the prosecutor to obtain the applicant’s previous criminal file (see paragraphs 8 and 9 above), alleging that already in the course of those proceedings witnesses had stated that v.k. he also asserted that the earlier material proved that in autumn 2009 v.k. once the criminal file was transferred to the kaunas regional court, the applicant – during a hearing of 17 september 2012 – complained that the prosecutor had ignored his numerous requests, including a request for him to ensure that v.k. the applicant claimed that the reports by child psychiatrists ordered during proceedings in respect of the earlier case against the applicant contained information about the applicant’s behaviour towards his children in 2009. ’s place of work and the conclusions reached by the children’s rights ombudsman (see paragraph 29 above). in particular, the court considered irrelevant the applicant’s request for the summons of one of his children’s school teacher, his neighbours, and doctors who had treated v.k. had to be examined (see paragraph 43 above), but had later backtracked on that issue. would not visit her children in the children’s home – she “was not interested in their lives (nesidomi jų gyvenimu)” and was hiding her place of residence. as can be seen from later court rulings, on 20 march 2012 the applicant submitted a number of requests to the prosecutor, including a repeated request that his spectacles be returned to him. however, the court also pointed out that there was no information in the file to the effect that the spectacles which had been taken away during the applicant’s search had been prescribed by a doctor.
the applicant company was set up in 1998 as a limited liability company. vat was also declared on all incoming invoices. until the subsequent events, the applicant company had been submitting regular tax returns to the tax authorities, notifying the state of its vat calculations, payments and deductions. on 6 november 2009 a tax assessment was compiled by the iro. that finding was based on earlier audits of those companies, which remained without further specification. relying on the tax assessment conducted earlier, on 20 november 2009 the iro issued two decisions in respect of erroneous calculation of vat, ordering the applicant company to pay an additional 3,827,546.00 macedonian denars (mkd, around 62,000 euros (eur)) in vat. an appeal lodged against those decisions had no suspensive effect. the applicant company lodged an appeal with the minister of finance against the decisions of 9 december 2009. on 22 march 2010 the applicant company received a written reprimand from the iro. it amounted to mkd 6,059,124 (around eur 100,000). on 23 april 2010 the applicant company lodged an administrative action with the administrative court (управен суд). on 26 may 2011 the ministry of finance again dismissed the appeal of the applicant company, reiterating the findings from the audit. specifically, the income of the applicant company was created by companies which failed to meet their legal obligations in relation to the payment of vat ...in the deliberations the court took into account the claims by the appellant that it was wrongfully deprived of the right to claim vat deductions because the errors found in the tax assessment had pertained to other [companies] ... these claims were rejected by the court ... inter alia taking into account that it is in the interests of every taxpayer to know and be aware of those with whom they engage in business.” the indictment encompassed the individuals responsible for several, but not all, of the applicant company’s suppliers. the supplier companies as legal entities were not directly indicted.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in riga. or the bank’s staff members and the advertising companies. applied to have criminal proceedings instituted in respect of the alleged intentional dissemination of false information about him. between august 2002 and may 2003 nra published numerous articles on various topics of public interest concerning the 2002 parliamentary elections. ’s actions, had been provided in the form of facts susceptible of proof. information published in nra, 3 october 2002 edition, article written by r.p. the transfer was carried out without documentary certification as an advance payment for advertising services ... [nra] has already announced that since the beginning of 2001, krājbanka has transferred [lvl] 522,000 [to finance] its advertising and marketing activities, in respect of which no documentation is available. ... asked him in a forthright manner: ‘have the folks from ventspils insured your property?’ ‘ is now speculating that he will soon be afforded immunity as a member of [parliament], preventing him from being criminally prosecuted without a majority vote of [the parliament] ... commenting on the value of marketing, advertising and public relations contracts, [the applicant] admitted that even though it is necessary to carry out in-depth market research, during a.l. ’s era various procedures were breached and payments were made whose sums currently cannot be precisely determined ... nra has already written that [lvl] 522,000 has been transferred [to finance krājbanka’s] advertising and marketing activities since the beginning of the year 2001, in respect of which no documentation – the relevant contracts, delivery/acceptance deeds, etc. – repše: the minister must be morally clean”.) during a hearing of 16 january 2004 the applicant admitted before the first-instance court that the information concerning the possible misappropriation of krājbanka’s funds, which he had provided to nra, had proved to be incorrect. nra had published a series of articles about the money spent on the pre-election advertising of the latvia’s first party, linking the source of these funds to krājbanka and its former president, a.l. this had also been confirmed by the results of the external audit and by the prosecution (see paragraphs 11 and 12). it was the nra journalists who had linked the applicant’s report with the allegations of wrongdoing by a.l.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in mersin. on 30 december 2011 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda for that organisation. on the same day, the applicant was brought before the investigating judge who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the nature of the offences, and the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences, and the risk of absconding. on 28 march 2012 the applicant’s lawyer lodged an objection against the decision dated 30 december 2011 ordering the applicant’s detention and requested his release. on 29 march 2012 the mersin magistrates’ court dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 16 april 2012 the applicant’s lawyer filed a further objection against that decision. on 17 april 2012 the mersin criminal court with general jurisdiction dismissed the objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 5 september 2012 the applicant was released from detention on remand. on 10 september 2012 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, accusing him of being a member of a terrorist organisation and of making propaganda in its favour. according to the latest information in the case file, the proceedings against the applicant are still pending before an assize court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in podgorica. between 3 december 2002 and 15 september 2003 the daily newspaper dan published several articles about a human trafficking case in montenegro, in which the applicant’s name was mentioned in various contexts. on 22 october 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the publisher of the said newspaper, seeking compensation for non‑pecuniary damage due to violation of his honour and reputation caused by the publishing of untrue information about him. on 4 june 2010, following a remittal, the podgorica first instance court ruled partly in favour of the applicant, ordering the publisher to pay the applicant 8,000 euros (eur) in non-pecuniary damages and to publish the judgment in dan, the daily newspaper in question. on 22 october 2010 the podgorica high court amended this judgment by awarding the applicant eur 4,000 as compensation for the non-pecuniary damage suffered, which judgment was served on the applicant on 29 november 2010. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 14 january 2011. on 7 april 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. this decision was served on the applicant on 19 may 2011.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in siirt. on 9 january 2009 the applicant was taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation and disseminating its propaganda. on 13 january 2009 the applicant was brought before the siirt magistrates’ court, who ordered his detention on remand taking into account the strong suspicion that he had committed the alleged offences. on 3 august 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the above decision on the applicant’s detention and requested his release. on 6 august 2009 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with disseminating terrorist propaganda, and aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation. on 10 august 2009, at the end of the preparatory hearing, the diyarbakır assize court decided to prolong the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case-file. on 8 september 2009 the diyarbakır assize court ex officio examined the applicant’s detention on remand on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend it. on 1 october 2009, at the end of the first hearing before the diyarbakır assize court, the applicant was released pending trial. on 31 december 2009 the diyarbakır assize court acquitted the applicant of the charges against him. no appeal was filed and the judgment became final on 8 january 2010.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in bern, switzerland. on 6 july 2004 an article written by mr b.g. entitled “analysing the kurdish dynamic correctly” was published in ülkede özgür gündem. next to the article a photograph of abdullah öcalan shaking hands with a group of armed men was published. on 8 july 2004 the public prosecutor at the istanbul assize court filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of the kongra-gel[1] under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) on account of the article published on 6 july 2004. in the indictment, the public prosecutor quoted the following passage from the article:“... abdullah öcalan, who has contributed to the essential dynamic of the kurdish movement and the hpg[2], the pja[3] and the kongra-gel, organisations which have acted as military, political and ideological leaders and which have represented his leadership,... [must be well understood]”. the public prosecutor stated that a photograph of abdullah öcalan in which he was standing in a rural area holding a weapon had been published in the newspaper, next to the article. the public prosecutor considered as a result that the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation inciting others to violence or other methods of terrorism. subsequently, criminal proceedings were launched against the applicant before the istanbul assize court. during the proceedings the applicant maintained that the article in question had been a news article and had not contained propaganda inciting to violence. 3713 and sentenced him to six months’ imprisonment and a fine. on 16 may 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation returned the case file to the first-instance court and requested that the latter revise its judgment in the light of the recent legislative amendments. 3713, with the same reasoning that it had adopted on 24 may 2005. on 18 november 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 28 september 2006.
the applicants were born in 1987 and 1985, respectively, and live in the hozat district of tunceli. on 5 april 2007 the applicants attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in hozat. during the concert they chanted certain slogans, such as “revolutionary prisoners are immortal” (“devrimci tutsaklar ölümsüzdür”), “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”). on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court charging the applicants with disseminating propaganda in favour of the “dhkp/c” (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor noted that the first applicant had chanted the slogan “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”) during the concert. as regards the second applicant, the public prosecutor alleged that he had chanted the following slogans during the same concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour”, “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”). during the criminal proceedings against them, the applicants stated that they had attended the concert of 5 april 2007 and had sung along with the musicians but had not chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicants as charged and sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each. in its judgment, the assize court considered it established, on the basis of a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, a report on the video recording, the indictment, the applicants’ defence submissions and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, that the applicants had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. the court considered that the concert in question had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c and that the applicants had chanted slogans that were used by that organisation. the malatya assize court concluded that the applicants had committed the offence of dissemination of propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment. on 13 and 14 september 2011 the applicants were informed that they had to start serving their prison sentences within ten days. according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, upon receipt of the summons to serve the prison sentences, both applicants duly served them.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in ankara. on 27 march 2001 the applicant informed the director of the translation course that he had been invited to take part in the above-mentioned programme. on 30 march 2001 the dean of the faculty informed the director of the translation course that it had been decided that the applicant’s participation in the programme in question was not appropriate. the applicant was informed of the dean’s decision the same day. he added that it would have harmed his professional standing and reputation for reliability if he had withdrawn from the programme at short notice when he had already agreed to take part. on 26 june 2001 the commission of inquiry published its report. it noted at the outset that the applicant had been authorised to take part in events outside his city of residence on twelve occasions during the 2000/01 academic year, but that his request for authorisation concerning the programme of 31 march 2001 had been refused in view of the opinion of the course director, who considered that the topic of the programme was not directly linked to the applicant’s specialist field. as to the applicant’s participation in the broadcast of 14 april 2001, the commission noted that the dean of the faculty had authorised the applicant to attend an academic gathering to be held from 11 to 13 april 2001 in istanbul, and that this authorisation had not covered 14 april 2001. the commission considered in that regard that not even research professors should take part in programmes of this type without supervision or authorisation, and that universities had to uphold academic ethics. it went on to find that the applicant’s participation in two television programmes in istanbul on 31 march and 14 april 2001, without authorisation from his university, amounted to leaving his city of residence without authorisation, an offence punishable under regulation 8(g) of the disciplinary regulations for managers, lecturers and officials in higher education institutions (“the disciplinary regulations”). on 20 july 2001 the applicant applied to the university vice‑chancellor for reconsideration of that decision and requested that the sanction be lifted. on 8 august 2001 the vice-chancellor decided to lift the sanction of a reduction in salary and to impose a less severe penalty on the applicant, in the form of a reprimand under regulation 16 of the disciplinary regulations. on 25 october 2001 the applicant applied for judicial review of that decision. on 31 october 2005 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeal and upheld the administrative court’s judgment. it found that the reasoning of the decision had been in conformity with the procedure and the law and that there were no grounds for quashing the decision.
the applicants were born in 1974, 1978 and 1980 respectively. the residence permit stated that it could be revoked at any time with fourteen days’ prior notice to the holder. on 21 february 2004, during his second visit home, he married a sri lankan national. she was granted a temporary residence permit until 16 september 2008. her whereabouts at the time were not known to the authorities. on 30 november 2010 a lawyer acting on behalf of the first applicant’s wife wrote to the minister of the interior requesting a visitor’s residence permit for her based on humanitarian grounds, a permit of the same duration as that held by her husband. she also needed time to obtain travel documents for their daughter. the third applicant arrived in cyprus on 4 march 2002. according to the second applicant, the police came to the hospital and arrested him. on the evening of 6 january 2011 the police received information that about twenty aliens carrying offensive weapons (swords, clubs and molotov cocktails) were in the ayios dometios district of nicosia. they examined and collected evidence found in the area (including the first and third applicants’ cars). a number of suspects, including the second applicant, had sustained injuries which had been treated at nicosia general hospital. consequently, their temporary resident permits had been revoked and deportation and detention orders had been issued against them. consequently, on 14 january 2011, upon the expiry of the remand warrant, the applicants were released but re-arrested at once on the basis of the deportation and detention orders that had been issued against them. the first and third applicants were deported on 19 january 2011 and the second applicant was deported on 21 january 2011.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in kilis. on 17 october 1999 the applicant sat an examination in order to become a civil servant. on 9 may 2001 the gaziantep administrative court ordered the stay of execution of tedaş’s decision not to appoint the applicant as a security officer. on an unspecified date the applicant took up her duties. the court held that the requirement of “having completed military service” should be considered to apply only to male candidates and that there had been no restriction on women working as security officers in tedaş. on 11 june 2002 tedaş informed the applicant that her contract of employment had been terminated on 27 may 2002 by virtue of the supreme administrative court decision of 12 april 2002. on 26 december 2002 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of 4 october 2001. on 23 october 2003 the gaziantep administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case by following the reasoning of the supreme administrative court. it found, however, that it was unlawful to refuse to appoint r.b. on an unspecified date, the applicant applied for rectification of the decision of 16 november 2007, and maintained the arguments she had submitted during appeal (see paragraph 17 above). she therefore requested the supreme administrative court to rectify its decision of 16 november 2007. he also noted in that connection that turkey had ratified the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and that pursuant to its article 11, the state was bound to take all appropriate measures to ensure, inter alia, the right to the same employment opportunities on a basis of equality of men and women, including the application of the same criteria for selection in matters of employment. on 24 june 2009 the twelfth division of the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s application for the rectification of its previous decision, holding that none of the reasons put forth by the applicant for rectification fell within the exhaustive list of permissible grounds for rectification indicated in section 54 (1) of the administrative procedure act (law no. 2577) and that its previous decision was in accordance with law and procedure. therefore the gaziantep administrative court’s decision of 23 october 2003 became final.
the applicants are serving either life sentences or a lengthy period of imprisonment in different prisons in bulgaria. the applicant was sentenced to twenty years imprisonment in november 2011. the applicant described, and the government did not comment on, the conditions under which he had been detained there as follows. he was kept in isolation since 29 july 2011, without running water and toilet in his cell. there was poor ventilation and poor natural light in his cell. also, the light in his cell was kept on during the entire night, the cell was infested with rats and cockroaches, and the latter sometimes also reached his food. on an unspecified date before july 2016 the applicant was transferred to varna prison and he has not complained about the conditions there. there has been no running water or toilet in his cell which measured about 6 square metres. in the summer the temperatures were very high and in the winter the heating was switched off at around 6 p.m. as a result of which it became very cold in his cell. according to the applicant, while his regime was formally changed from “special” to the lighter “strict” one on 6 june 2011, in reality the restrictions and inadequate conditions in which he has been detained did not change. he has been handcuffed systematically upon leaving his cell. he complained about the “special regime” and inadequate material conditions of detention in which he has been serving his sentence since 24 january 2012 in varna prison. the supreme court of cassation upheld the whole-life imprisonment sentence in a final judgment of 21 may 2014. there has been no running water or toilet in his cell which measures less than 6 square metres. as there is no table in his cell the applicant has been eating over a newspaper spread over his bed.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in argenteuil. he moved into or was placed in a safe lateral position until the nurses arrived. he was taken to intensive care, where he never regained consciousness. the first autopsy, carried out by dr r. on 11 june 2009 at the request of the public prosecutor of pontoise, found that the superficial skin injuries were unrelated to the cause of death. he added that if mr ziri had been treated by a nurse on his arrival at argenteuil hospital, the clinical appearance, the constant symptoms and the usual complementary tests would have resulted in his being placed under immediate medical surveillance in order to prevent or remedy the cardiorespiratory failure. he concluded that the delay of forty to forty-five minutes between his admission to hospital and his treatment had contributed to his death. they thus concluded:“ziri ali, aged 69, died of hypoxic cardiac arrest by multifactorial suffocation (pressure on the back and front and known vomiting).” were questioned on several occasions, in particular by the igpn, together with other police officers, four individuals who had been present at the arrest of mr ziri and a.k. and argenteuil police station at the time when they were transferring mr ziri and a.k had been included in the evidence, as had the images of their arrival recorded by the police station’s cctv system. a fresh notice of the conclusion of the judicial investigation was issued on 2 september 2011 and on 15 october 2012 the investigating judge decided to discontinue the proceedings, on the grounds that “the investigation [had] not established any acts of wilful violence which might have been the direct or indirect cause of mr ali ziri’s death, or any direct or indirect fault attributable to anyone who intentionally caused the death”. it concluded from this that the only times when mr ziri might have been subjected to acts of violence had been during the journey in the police car between the place of arrest and the police station, or on his arrival at the police station. his state of extreme agitation inside the vehicle is confirmed by the fact that the driver, unusually, placed a call by radio to request the opening of the gate to the police station courtyard, which was normally opened by a member of the patrol who would get out of the vehicle to type in the access code, and it is also confirmed by lieutenant [s.m.] then ziri, were restrained in that manner, as [v.p.] it can be seen from those particulars that in the light of the state of agitation and rebellion of the individuals arrested, whose conduct, in the confined space of a vehicle, close to the driver, was highly dangerous for the safety of all passengers and other road users, the immobilisation techniques applied for a few minutes by the police officers, whose professional attitude is not in doubt and is attested by the witnesses to the arrest, did not constitute excessive restraint. the video recording of the arrival at the police station shows, once again, that it was only because of his resistance that he was forced out of the vehicle and then carried onto the premises to be laid on the floor.
the applicant company is a bank with its registered office in vienna. the a. company, an investment advisor, functioned as an important distribution partner of the applicant company. following consultations with the a. company, f.m. ordered the applicant company, between 2006 and 2008, to purchase and keep if shares in deposit. the amount invested in exchange for the shares acquired by them. by employees of the a. company could not be attributed to the applicant company. filed an ordinary appeal on points of law (ordentliche revision). for that reason, employees of the a. company had been provided with inadequate information material. the supreme court had accepted judge n.’s withdrawal from all these cases. according to the respective decisions, judge n. had even considered filing an action on account of the losses he had suffered due to his acquisition of the shares, with the applicant company being one of the parties against whom such an action might potentially be introduced. the applicant company further explained that it had only learned about the composition of the panel – and thus the involvement of judge n. in the proceedings at issue – when the supreme court’s judgment had been served on the applicant company. it confirmed that judge n. had purchased shares in if prior to their decrease in value. for this reason judge n., even though he had not considered himself personally biased, had withdrawn from at least two cases concerning if shares (see the supreme court’s decisions of 14 may 2010, 9 nc 13/10a, and of 26 november 2012, 9 nc 38/12f). in other proceedings concerning an action brought against the applicant company (by a different person) in connection with the purchase of shares in if, the applicant company filed an extraordinary appeal against a judgment of the court of appeal of 29 november 2012 with the supreme court and subsequently challenged judge n. for bias in those proceedings. the fact that judge n. had in the past withdrawn from two comparable cases due to the acquisition of shares in the same company gave rise to doubts as to his impartiality, notwithstanding that he no longer intended to file any civil action in this regard.
the applicants were born in 1942 and 1969 respectively. the first applicant lives in gabrovo and the second applicant lives in varna. mihalev, father of the first applicant and grandfather of the second applicant, owned a machinery factory in gabrovo, which was nationalised in 1947. in 1994 the first applicant and his brother concluded a rent contract with company t., which undertook to pay rent in exchange of the use of the building. the term of the contract was extended on several occasions, the last of which in 2002. in 1997 the first applicant’s brother transferred his share in the building to his daughter, the second applicant. after the entry into force of the compensation of owners of nationalised real property act (hereinafter “the compensation act”, see paragraph 17 below), in january 1998 the first applicant and his brother applied to receive compensation for moveable properties such as industrial equipment and materials which had been nationalised together with the factory. that decision was upheld in a final judgment of the supreme administrative court of 17 september 2002, after the first applicant and his brother sought its judicial review, contesting the manner of compensation. eventually, in 2005 they received compensation bonds with a face value of 19,494 bulgarian levs (bgn, the equivalent of 9,970 euros (eur)). in january 2009 company t. brought proceedings against the applicants, claiming to be the factory building’s owner. in a judgment of 27 october 2009 the gabrovo regional court dismissed the claim. however, on 17 may 2010 the veliko tarnovo court of appeal quashed the lower court’s judgment and allowed the action against the applicants, finding that the preconditions for restitution had indeed not been met. on the basis of expert evidence and witness testimony, it concluded that after the nationalisation the building had been modified in a manner and to a degree which meant that in 1992 it had not existed in its state prior to 1947. accordingly, the applicants could not rely on restitution and company t. had become the owner of the building on the strength of its transformation from a state-owned enterprise into a company in 1991 (see paragraph 5 above). in a decision of 19 july 2011 the governor dismissed their request, as it had not been submitted within the time-limit provided for under that act (see paragraph 17 below).
the applicant was born in 1984 and lives in athens. on 21 september 2013 the applicant was arrested in athens for possession of a fake french passport. he was taken to a public prosecutor, who initiated criminal proceedings against him. on 24 september 2013 the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment for use of a false instrument, giving false unsworn testimony, and illegally entering the country (judgment 46181/2013 of the three-member athens court of first instance). in those objections, he had included a request for international protection. on 4 october 2013 the applicant appealed against the expulsion decision to the director of the aliens division of attica, submitting at the same time a request for international protection. his appeal against the decision ordering his expulsion was dismissed the next day. 8256/07, 26 november 2009), he argued that his detention was unlawful, since his expulsion to syria was not possible, given the ongoing intensive military action taking place there. in his application, he referred, inter alia, to the fact that he had proved his syrian nationality by giving his identity card to the police, and that he should be set free, as his expulsion could not be achieved. on 25 october 2013 the applicant’s application was dismissed by the president of the athens administrative court of first instance. she further ruled that the applicant’s objection regarding the date of the document modifying the legal basis of his detention was unsubstantiated. on 12 november 2013 the applicant was granted refugee status (decision no. the food provided had been of very poor quality. the above-mentioned conditions had created a risk of contagious diseases. there was also an additional space, measuring 7.67 sq.
a list of the applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. at 5.10 a.m. on 19 july 2005 a criminal case was opened against the applicant on suspicion of drugs possession. on 30 june 2008 the district court examined an appeal lodged by the applicant against the decision of 28 april 2008. he became a suspect in a criminal investigation only after the investigator ch. regard being had to the above and on the basis of the inquiry conducted, the investigator k. has rightfully concluded that [the applicant] when present at [the police station] had not been restricted in movement and that he had been able to leave the premises. on 1 november 2006 the omsk regional court (“the regional court”) convicted the applicant of theft, robbery and murder, and sentenced him to twenty years’ imprisonment, running from 23 september 2007, the date of his actual arrest. at 2.05 p.m. the police drew up an arrest record, according to which the applicant had been detained at 2 p.m. on 11 april 2007 on suspicion of armed robbery. on 13 october 2010 a justice of the peace found the applicant guilty of taking drugs without a medical prescription and sentenced him to one day’s administrative detention, running from 2.40 a.m. on 12 october 2010. on 5 march 2011 the regional court upheld the court order on appeal. on 10 september 2011 the sverdlovskiy district court of krasnoyarsk ordered the applicant’s detention. on 30 november 2010 a record of the applicant’s arrest was drawn up. on 30 april 2010 the usinsk district court of the komi republic (“the district court”) convicted the applicant as charged. at about 4 p.m. on 12 november 2013 the applicant was arrested by the federal security service (“the fsb”). he had not been informed about his rights or the reasons for his arrest. he was released at 6 a.m. on 22 september 2014.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in orsk. on 28 may 2005 the applicant, who was walking home after an evening drinking, was stopped on the street by police officers from the patrol and inspection service and driven to the sovetskiy district police station of orsk (советское ровд г. he attempted to run away, but was stopped and assaulted by the police officers, who kicked him in the stomach. the applicant was released the next morning. on the evening of 29 may 2005 he was admitted to hospital with internal bleeding. according to forensic medical expert report no. 3634 of 25 july 2005, the applicant had blunt abdominal trauma with a ruptured intestine, which had provoked the development of serofibrinous peritonitis. this injury had been caused by impact with a hard, blunt object, possibly one to two days before the applicant’s hospitalisation, and had caused him “serious health damage”. 5684 of 14 december 2011 contained similar information concerning the applicant’s injuries. 2 with blunt abdominal trauma and abrasions on his body. on 11 july 2005 the applicant was granted victim status and questioned. on 14 october 2005 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended under article 208 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure, owing to the inability to identify the individuals to be charged. on 1 march and 18 july 2012 the preliminary investigation into the criminal case was suspended again, on the same grounds as before. it established that the applicant had been taken into police custody in good health and that his injuries had been caused at the police station, since the state authorities had failed to provide a plausible explanation for the injuries or any evidence showing that he could have sustained them elsewhere. on 9 october 2012 the orenburg regional court upheld the judgment on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in focşani. the documents referred to the military operations of the romanian troops at the said base in 2002 and 2003, such as operations orders or military maps. who was working for românia liberă, were kidnapped by a terrorist group in iraq. the journalists speculated as to whether such information could have reached terrorists too and demanded an investigation in order to establish whether the leaks had been voluntary. the minister also confirmed the fact that he had been informed about the leak by the romanian intelligence service (serviciul român de informaţii) in october 2005 and that the specialised army departments had immediately started preliminary verifications. and the ambient recording of their discussions. had been included in the investigation file. in the following months, both the applicant and o.s. the investigation further established that by the end of 2005 the applicant had shown the content of the cd to a few people and had given a copy of the cd to e.g. and i.m., it was in that context that he had discussed and shown the said documents to e.g. and i.m., he acknowledged that he might have told some of his friends that he had seen secret documents in order to be given more credit as an investigative journalist. on 15 august 2007 the prosecutor’s office attached to the high court of cassation and justice decided that “by receiving (obtaining) from o.s. 182/2002 on the protection of classified information, government decision no. on 5 february 2008 the bucharest court of appeal rejected the applicant’s complaint as ill-founded. considering that the information in question had not been in the public domain, the court held that journalists coming into possession of such information must submit it to the competent authorities and were allowed by law to share with the public only the failure of the institution concerned to protect its confidentiality.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tauragė region. since 1999 she has been diagnosed with several mental disorders, such as schizo-affective disorder, depression, mania, and panic disorder. she was given state‑guaranteed legal aid. on 28 march 2014 the tauragė district prosecutor informed the applicant and her lawyer that, in line with article 209 of the code of criminal procedure (see paragraph 42 below), it was necessary for the applicant to undergo a psychiatric assessment. the government submitted that the psychiatric assessment had been completed on the same day and the applicant had not been detained any longer (see paragraph 64 below). according to the applicant, the police officers did not explain to her why she was being seized and did not draw up a record of provisional arrest (see paragraph 61 below). she had] a complete grasp of the time, the place and herself (orientuota pilnai laike, vietoje ir savyje). [ at the beginning of the assessment [she was] outraged and loudly expressed dissatisfaction that police officers had brought her to the assessment by force, without her consent. she expresses anger at the lifestyle of asocial families in the neighbourhood and the wider area [and says that] she is ready to not put up with it and to fight against it. [ as i understand from [the documents provided by the court], she is currently undergoing treatment ... i understand that she underwent treatment already in may ... at a psychiatric hospital. the treatment was not effective because [later] she was hospitalised again. the applicant also complained about the court’s decision to commit her to a hospital in rokiškis (more than 200 kilometres from tauragė) and not one which was closer to her home. on 26 september 2014 the klaipėda regional court held a hearing in which the applicant was absent but her lawyer was present. on 22 may 2015 the rokiškis district court ruled, on the basis of the information provided by the hospital, that her mental health had not sufficiently improved, and extended the hospitalisation; the applicant did not appeal against that decision. according to the information submitted to the court, the applicant appealed against that decision and at the time of the present judgment the appellate proceedings were pending.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1991 and 1982 respectively. a medical doctor and employee of a state pension office, on suspicion of bribe-taking. and the first applicant, in the first applicant’s presence, accompanied by her lawyer. cash in other currencies had also been seized as well as several items belonging to the second applicant. was handed a copy of the seizure decision of 17 march 2014 in the presence of his lawyer. on 25 march 2014 the second applicant, represented by two lawyers of her choice, lodged a complaint with the caraş-severin county court against the prosecutor’s decision of 17 march 2014. he also mentioned that out of the money seized in cash, the sum of eur 40,400 had come from the sale of a flat in 2013. on 6 november 2014 the arad county court found s.t. 176/2010 on integrity in the exercise of functions in public office. and the first applicant from their salaries between 1991 and 2014. at the hearing of 16 march 2015 the applicants’ lawyer requested that another person be invited to testify as a witness before the court that he had also lent money to the second applicant. as a result of this criminal conviction, the first-instance court considered that the requirements of article 1121 of the criminal code had been fulfilled and ordered the extended confiscation of money, flats and vehicles, items which had a value exceeding the income of the defendant and his family in the last five years ....as regards the income of the defendant and his family, the court observes that he submitted an accountant’s report showing the family’s income starting with january 1991, but without mentioning their expenses for the same period. as regards the second applicant, the court held that she was currently a student and there was no proof in the file to show that she had ever had an income. her allegations that the property found in her name had been acquired from donations from other members of the family had not been proved. as regards the appeal submitted by the third applicant, the court held that no evidence had been submitted to the file to show that eur 40,400 belonged to her and had been given to s.t.
the applicants were all employees of the ministry of justice’s directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions in serbia. 85/2005, amendments published in the official gazette no. between 1 january 2007 and 14 january 2011, while this unconstitutional norm (neustavna odredba) was in force, the employees of the ministry of justice’s directorate for the execution of criminal sanctions received lower salaries that they had been entitled to. the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal on 25 november 2013 complaining, inter alia, of the existence of inconsistent domestic case-law of serbian courts, in particular the rejection of her own claim and the simultaneous acceptance of identical claims lodged by her colleagues, and asked the constitutional court to find that there had been a breach of the principle of judicial certainty as an integral part of her right to a fair trial. this judgment was overturned by the belgrade court of appeal on 15 august 2012. on 14 july 2011, the applicant lodged a civil claim with the basic court in požarevac. at the relevant time, the fifth applicant was an employee of belgrade special prison hospital. on 23 january 2013 the first basic court ruled in her favour. her complaint was rejected on 25 december 2012. on 30 october 2014 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s constitutional appeal for the same reason as in the case of the first applicant. on 16 may 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal. on an unspecified date in 2012, the applicant lodged a civil claim with the basic court in požarevac. 55066/15 (mr dejan stepanović – the eighteenth applicant) 69. the judgment of the first-instance court was upheld by the belgrade court of appeal on 5 june 2013. he amended his appeal following the decision of the supreme court of cassation of 26 september 2013 on 12 june 2014.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in gyál. the court also held that the applicant’s “unclear” financial situation and the severity of the possible punishment demonstrated that there was a risk of his absconding. the court gave no consideration to an application by the applicant’s lawyer for the applicant to be placed under house arrest. he further submitted that he had cooperated with the investigating authorities. alternatively, the applicant requested that he be released and placed under house arrest. on 23 may 2011 the buda central district court extended the applicant’s detention until 26 august 2011. on 22 june 2011 the budapest regional court upheld that decision. in an appeal, the applicant argued that the investigating authorities had implemented no procedural measures, the proceedings had been unreasonably lengthy, and previously he had always been reachable at his temporary residence. however, the court did not find that the risk of collusion (article 129 § 2 (c) of the code of criminal procedure) was substantiated, since there was no way to influence any of the investigative measures which the prosecution had relied on. it dismissed the applicant’s arguments that no investigative measure had been implemented for a considerable period of time. on 24 october 2012 the applicant’s pre-trial detention was extended again for a month under article 129 § 2 (b) of the code of criminal procedure. it considered that, irrespective of the seriousness of the charges, it appeared that there was less risk of his absconding, since he was raising two children who were minors and he had no criminal record. on 21 december 2012 the applicant’s detention was extended; the budapest high court again referred to the fact that, at the time of his arrest, the applicant had been unreachable at his permanent address and had been earning a living from temporary jobs, which, taken together with the severity of the potential punishment, substantiated the risk of his absconding. the decision was upheld on appeal on 10 january 2013. that decision was upheld on appeal by the budapest court of appeal on 18 february 2014.
on 6 august 2003 the cabinet of ministers decided that kryvorizhstal state metallurgical enterprise (hereinafter “kryvorizhstal”) was to be privatised. on 4 november 2003 the ministry of economy and european integration included kryvorizhstal in a list of state-owned assets which were to be privatised. these events are commonly known as the orange revolution. on 28 may, 3 and 11 june 2004 respectively, three private individuals, n., a lawyer practising in kyiv, s. and kh., no copy of those decisions was provided to the court. on 14 june 2004 i., a private individual, and n. lodged with the shevchenkivskyy district court of kyiv a claim against the fund, the state commission on securities and the stock market, and ing bank ukraine, challenging the validity of their decisions and actions in connection with the privatisation of kryvorizhstal. on 19 august 2004 the kyiv commercial court, having considered the arguments of consortium industrial group in detail, dismissed them as unsubstantiated and found that the privatisation of kryvorizhstal had been carried out in accordance with the relevant legislation. on 7 february 2005 the prosecutor general lodged a cassation appeal in the interests of the state with the supreme court, alleging that the contested decisions of the kyiv commercial court and the higher commercial court concerned the rights and obligations of the cabinet of ministers. no copy of that procedural ruling was provided to the court. on 23 march 2005 the court held a hearing in camera at which it decided to open the proceedings and invite the parties to submit their arguments on the case. on 15 april 2005 the applicant company requested that the court allow journalists to attend the hearings in the case. it annulled the authorities’ decisions concerning the 2004 privatisation and the contract of 14 june 2004, and ordered the fund to return the money paid by the applicant company for the kryvorizhstal shares. the applicant company appealed in cassation. t. took part in the proceedings as a defendant. on 21 april 2005 the court granted the application by the applicant company, quashed the ruling of 17 february 2005, and rejected n.’s application of 9 february 2005 on the grounds that she had not participated in the original proceedings concerning the claims by consortium industrial group.
the first applicant was founded in 1990 and has its seat in podgorica. on an unspecified date thereafter the four plots of land were joined into one, marked as no. on 3 march 2016 the cadastral plot of land no. on 6 october 2005 another decision was issued, providing that the dup would be changed within 90 days and construction was further prohibited until the adoption of a new dup but up to one year at most. this decision entered into force on 14 october 2005. on 21 july 2006 a new dup was issued; it entered into force on 29 july 2006. following the changes of the dup in december 2004 (see paragraph 10 above), on 25 january 2005 the first applicant contacted the property secretariat (direkcija za imovinu; “the secretariat”) in the podgorica municipality. on 27 january 2005 the spatial planning secretariat of podgorica municipality issued urban technical conditions, which stated that the cadastral plot of land no. the payment was returned the next day as it had been made “without cause” (uplaćen bez osnova). on 22 october 2008 it requested that the contract specify in accordance with which dup the construction would be undertaken. on 26 july 2005 the first applicant notified the ministry that the agency was refusing to calculate the charges and asked the ministry to urge that the agency do so. on 29 december 2005 the administrative court dismissed the first applicant’s claim on the grounds that there was no contract between the first applicant and the agency concerning the communal charges, that the first applicant had failed to submit all the evidence required by the relevant statutory provision in order to obtain a building permit, and it had failed to obtain an adjacent plot of land as required by the urban technical conditions. on 6 december 2006 and 27 june 2007, respectively, the constitutional court rejected the other two motions. on 14 august 2006 the ministry sent a letter to the mayors of all municipalities. by 17 december 2007 it had built the warehouse and obtained a permit to use it (upotrebna dozvola).
the first and second applicants were born in 1953 and 1954 respectively. the first applicant lives in munich and the second in erding. in the context of those proceedings the applicants contacted the press, providing them with documents connected to the reopening proceedings and other unspecified documents. the transcript of this report remained available on the archive pages of the radio station’s website, in the section entitled “older news items”, under kalenderblatt, until at least 2007. by two judgments of 29 july 2008 the hamburg court of appeal upheld the judgments, finding that the provision of these old news items had infringed the applicants’ personality rights. however, reports concerning criminal offences were part of contemporary history, which the media had a responsibility to report on. indeed, once the perpetrator of a crime had been convicted and the public had been sufficiently informed, repeated interference with the right to protection of personality could no longer be easily justified, in view of the interest of the person concerned in being reintegrated into society. lastly, the federal court of justice noted that a ban such as that sought by the applicants would have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and freedom of the press: if they were prohibited from making available to internet users transcripts of old radio programmes whose legality had not been challenged, media outlets such as deutschlandradio would no longer be able to fulfil their task of informing the public, a task entrusted to them under constitutional law. it stated that it was not giving reasons for its decisions (nos. on 4 june 2007 the frankfurt am main regional court dismissed the application on the grounds that it did not have sufficient prospects of success. on 29 july 2008 the hamburg court of appeal upheld the judgments of the regional court on the same grounds as those set out in its other judgments of the same day (see paragraphs 14-16 above). (c)  the judgments of the federal court of justice 35. it reiterated that offenders were not entitled to obtain a blanket ban on viewing a report concerning named offenders or an obligation to erase such reports. on the subject of the impugned photos, the federal court of justice pointed out that it had developed a concept of graduated protection (abgestuftes schutzkonzept) based on sections 22 and 23 of the copyright act (see “domestic law”, paragraph 50 below), which it had clarified following the court’s judgment in von hannover v. germany (no. vi zr 114/09 and 115/09 of 22 february 2011, and no.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in the village of tsereteli, marneuli region, georgia. the authority immediately opened a criminal case into ms k.’s allegations (“the bribery case”). ms k. promised to bring the sum the following day. on 13 december 2005 ms k. brought usd 10,000 to the applicant in cash. the accuracy of these findings was later confirmed by a forensic chemical examination. he stated that he had never had any intention of accepting a bribe but had been helping ms k. out of good will, as he had considered her to be a distant relative. when questioned by the trial court for the first time on 20 april 2006, ms k. stated that she had met the applicant in his office and informed him of her intention to construct a petrol station. as to the sum of usd 10,000, ms k. stated – reiterating the applicant’s version of events – that it had been intended that the money would be paid through the applicant’s offices to a private construction company in relation to the ongoing construction project of a petrol station. on 17 may 2006 ms k. lodged a complaint with the prosecutor’s office in respect of the initiation of the criminal proceedings against her (see paragraph 19 above). when questioned by the trial court on 23 june 2006, both the notary who had certified the sales agreement and the head of the land registry of the marneuli region confirmed that the applicant had been urging them to expedite the registration of ms k.’s title to the plot of land on which a petrol station was scheduled to be constructed. ms k. did not deny that, prior to her involvement in the case against the applicant, she had acted as an undercover agent for the dcs in four other unrelated cases. ms k. also stated that the sales agreement in respect of the plot of land had been annulled shortly after the applicant’s arrest, as it had in fact been a fictitious transaction concluded under the dcs’s close supervision. on 7 july 2006 the applicant requested the trial court to summon ms n. as an additional witness so that he could question her in relation to her purported collaboration with the dcs and role in the sequence of the events which had led to the initiation of the criminal proceedings against him (see the preceding paragraph). on 18 october 2006 the examination of the applicant’s appeal by the tbilisi court of appeal began. ms n. was scheduled to appear before the appellate court on 1 december 2006, but failed to do so.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in thessaloniki. in december 2007 the applicant published an article in a local newspaper, chortiatis 570. because they care about any accidents that may happen – not, of course, owing to someone’s choosing to walk or park his or her car there, but owing to the fact that the height of this construction, which accidently (as they claim) juts out of their land, is such that any unsuspecting person runs the risk of getting head injuries when he or she steps out of his or her car ... as they are bailiffs, like spies, they also find out the names of the people who come into the pavlidis area in philyro in order to work, from the number plates of the cars. [ on 24 september 2008 the three-member first-instance criminal court of thessaloniki (τριμελές πλημμελειοδικείο) held a hearing in the case. the court held that the complainant could be identified from the content of the article, and found the applicant guilty of slanderous defamation via the press. it sentenced him to a six-month suspended prison sentence (decision no. the applicant appealed against that decision. the applicant appealed on points of law on grounds including, inter alia, a lack of sufficient reasoning as to the rejection of his argument under article 367 of the criminal code, which he had repeated in the court of appeal. on 13 july 2010 the court of appeal held a new hearing in the case. the appeal court rejected the applicant’s argument and held the following:“... considering the above-mentioned content of the article and the then ongoing dispute between the parties and especially their personal confrontation at the city council, it is at the outset clear and without a doubt that the references (facts and characterisations) solely and exclusively concern the complainant. the decision was finalised (καθαρογραφή) on 24 march 2011. lodged a civil action for damages against the applicant. the thessaloniki multi-member first-instance court by its judgment no. 697/2011 ordered the applicant to pay 5,000 euros (eur) to e.p. the judgment became final and the applicant paid to e.p.
the applicant companies have their registered offices respectively in bari (g.i.e.m. on 28 october 1992 the applicant company informed the bari municipal authority that it wished to participate in a site development agreement. the court of appeal thus acquitted the defendants on the ground that no material element of an offence had been made out (“perché il fatto non sussiste”) and revoked the confiscation measure in respect of all the buildings and land. in that connection, the court noted that at the time the development plans had been adopted (20 march 1990), regional law no. 56/1980 in fact imposed a prohibition on building within the meaning of section 51(f), from which the circumstances of the case allowed no derogation, because the site development plans concerned plots of land that were not situated within the city limits. the public prosecutor appealed on points of law. it emphasised that no construction work had actually been carried out on its land, which had not been the subject of a building permit. and others judgments (merits and just satisfaction, no. on 27 march 1991, under section 13 of regional law no. 45 of 1989, the sardinia region issued its nulla osta approval for building at a minimum distance of 150 metres from the sea, provided that once erected the buildings would actually be used for tourist accommodation. by way of derogation from the municipal land-use plan. in 1997 eighty-eight housing units, less than one third of the total number, had been built. assigned the construction rights to hotel promotion bureau s.r.l. in a judgment of 11 october 2004 the cagliari court of appeal upheld the olbia district court’s finding of dismissal (non doversi procedere) in respect of the offence which was statute-barred and reiterated that the municipality of golfo aranci should not have issued the building permits, which were illegal and in any event ineffective. on 15 september 1997 the municipality of reggio di calabria issued the building permit.
the cases concern the 1982 state internal premium loan bonds (облигации государственного внутреннего выигрышного займа 1982 года - “1982 premium bonds”) which are in the applicants’ possession. the applicants submitted lists of serials numbers or photocopies of their bonds. on 30 december 1980 the ussr cabinet of ministers decided to issue bonds of an internal premium loan to finance certain state programmes. this led to a two to threefold increase in prices. on 22 march 1991 the ussr president issued decree no. up-1708, ordering a one-time increase to savings instruments, including the 1982 premium bonds, of 40% to offset the price rise. on 26 december 1991 the ussr was dissolved by declaration no. on 19 february 1992 the russian government issued resolution no. to confirm succession of the [russian] government in respect of the obligations of the former ussr vis-à-vis russian federation citizens arising out of the bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan. to give russian federation citizens who are holders of bonds of the 1982 state internal premium loan the right to voluntarily exchange their bonds against state securities, including 1992 russian internal premium loan bonds, shares in the savings bank ... and also to credit the proceeds of sale of the bonds into deposit accounts open in the savings bank ... from 1 october 1992 ...” 11. from 2003 to the present day, the application and implementation of those laws and regulations have been continuously suspended, most recently for the period 1 january 2017 to 1 january 2020, by law no. 429‑fz of 19 december 2016 and resolution no. their claims were rejected on procedural and substantive grounds. mr ruzanov’s claim was allowed at first instance but the judgment was later overturned on appeal. the legislature was entitled to restrict the rights, including property rights, of some people for the protection of rights and lawful interests of others.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in râmnicu-vâlcea. during the proceedings the parties reached an agreement about the visiting schedule. on 17 may 2012 the county court questioned m.a. in a decision of 15 june 2012 (hereinafter “the contact order”) the county court took note of the parents’ agreement as to the visiting schedule and considered that it was beneficial for the child to maintain contact with her father. on 3 may and 7 june 2013 and on 7 march 2014 he went to her home together with the applicant, the police and representatives of the vâlcea directorate general on social welfare and child protection (“the child protection authority”). on 11 april 2013, at the applicant’s request, the bailiff lodged with the brezoi district court an application for penalties against n.e.c., on 21 august 2013, acting on an application lodged by the bailiff under article 188 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 27 below), the brezoi district court fined n.e.c. see paragraph 20 below) under the provisions of article 911 § 2 of the ccp (see paragraph 28 below). he also argued that the provisions of the ccp allowing the bailiff to stay the execution while a criminal complaint was ongoing were unconstitutional in so far as it allowed the debtor − in bad faith − to stay or obliterate the enforcement efforts and to manipulate the child’s behaviour to the point of rejecting the non-custodial parent. be fined for the delays in executing the contact order. on four occasions: on 29 january, 11 march, 23 april, and 17 july 2015. refused to re-establish contact with her father and expressed her belief that her father was only trying to hurt her mother through his actions because of their work-related conflicts, of which she had been partially informed by her mother. it is true that my mother has never said bad things about my father, but she has never encouraged me to have personal ties with him either.” on 18 april 2017, in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant, the prosecutor in chief of the prosecutor’s office upheld the above decision. ’s opinion as to what would be the appropriate method for him to re-establish contact with his daughter.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in oryol. the applicant, his partner and his mother were living in oryol when the applicant was charged with drug-related crimes. the instruction was valid as of 1 december 2009 until further notice. on 7 december 2009 the sovetskiy district court of oryol convicted the applicant of drug-related crimes and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment in a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility. on 2 february 2010 the oryol regional court upheld the conviction on appeal. acting on the basis of the fsin of russia’s instruction of 2 december 2009, on an unspecified date the oryol fsin decided, in view of the overcrowding in the post‑conviction detention facilities in the oryol region, that the issue of which particular facility the applicant would be transferred to should be resolved by the fsin department for the krasnoyarsk region (“the krasnoyarsk fsin”). the latter allocated the applicant to ik-7, a strict-regime post-conviction detention facility in the village of areyskoye, krasnoyarsk region (about 4,200 km from oryol), to serve his sentence. the applicant has been detained there since 20 april 2010. the applicant has repeatedly asked the penal authorities at different levels to transfer him to a detention facility located closer to oryol so that he could effectively maintain family ties while serving his sentence. 1700-o-o of the constitutional court of russia. it also noted that the defendant had acted in accordance with the fsin of russia’s instructions. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against the judgment. between july 2011 and october 2013 the applicant’s partner made long-term family visits to ik-7 on six occasions. in 2014 she gave birth to the couple’s daughter. while in ik-7, the applicant received a number of parcels and phone calls from his mother and partner.
the applicants were born in 1965 and 1954 respectively and live in bucharest. both applicants were ill-treated and injured on 21 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest. the first applicant suffered injuries that needed eight days of medical care and the second applicant was beaten by militia forces on the same occasion. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened ex officio investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. the injured parties, including the applicants, did not participate in that procedure, as the government acknowledged. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury. further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard the applicants who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and homicide as an attempt raised on account of their ill-treatment and injury during the events of december 1989. in the main criminal investigation, the second applicant gave a statement on 4 october 2001 and lodged a civil claim on 17 may 2005, asking for the punishment of those responsible. the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011) and anamaria‑loredana orășanu and others v. romania ([committee] (nos. 43629/13 and 74 others, §§ 10‑11, 7 november 2017). no decision was taken in respect of the first applicant. although the parties have not communicated any information regarding the lodging of an appeal against this decision, it can be seen from the military prosecutor’s office website that it was subsequently quashed. to date, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in gdynia. on 2 january 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of having committed homicide together with other persons. it also referred to the fact that the proceedings in question concerned several alleged accomplices. the court further relied on the likelihood that a severe penalty would be imposed on the applicant. the applicant appealed against all of those decisions. his application was refused on 21 september 2007 by the gdynia district prosecutor. on 27 november 2007 the gdańsk regional court further extended the applicant’s detention until 31 march 2008. on an unspecified date in late 2007 a bill of indictment was lodged with the gdańsk regional court. on 4 august 2008 the applicant requested the court to release him on health grounds. on 19 august 2008 the trial court refused his request. the applicant’s detention was continually extended by the domestic courts, pending his appeal and in the course of the retrial. on 16 march 2010 the gdańsk regional court gave judgment (case no. the applicant was again convicted as charged and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment. he lodged an appeal against that judgment. the applicant was released on the same day.
the applicant was born in 1993 and lives in skopje. as a consequence, r. suffered injuries to his nose and face and was taken to hospital by his friends. in the course of the investigation, on 6 september 2012 the applicant gave an oral statement and proposed that an eyewitness, p. (see paragraph 7 above), be questioned as a witness on his behalf. a traumatology surgeon (специјалист хирург ‑ трауматолог). the prosecution proposed that r. and two witnesses, j. and k., be questioned. the expert report (see paragraph 10 above) was also adduced as evidence. the applicant lodged an objection against the indictment on 22 november 2012. testify as an eyewitness to the event and b. testify to the fact that the applicant had come under attack by the same group on a previous occasion, which b. had prevented. the objection was dismissed by a panel of skopje court of first instance on 29 november 2012. at a public hearing before the trial court which took place on 12 february 2013, evidence was given by the applicant, and by r., j. and k. in his statement, witness j. said that during the altercation, p. (the witness proposed by the applicant) had launched himself (“му се фрли”) at k., the other witness. be questioned as eyewitnesses to the event. he was cross-examined by the defence counsel with regard to his competence to classify injuries. it was also requested that a neuro-psychiatric specialist prepare an expert opinion in respect of the applicant’s psychological state on the evening of the altercation in order to establish his mental capacity at the time of the events in question. at the same hearing the trial court refused all requests by the defence, stating:“the defence’s request to question witnesses m.r., on the same day the trial court delivered a judgment, finding the applicant guilty and sentencing him to a suspended prison sentence of one year.
the first applicant was born in 1954 and lives in sofia. at the time of the events in question the first applicant was registered as a sole trader. at that time the main commercial activity of the two applicants was trade in medicaments. in february and march 2006 the first applicant sold medicaments to a company called k., for which she was paid 22,043.23 bulgarian levs (bgn), the equivalent of 11,275 euros (eur), in total. it noted that k. had ceased its payments to e. and other creditors in october 2005, and held that the initial date of the company’s insolvency was therefore 30 october 2005. in january 2007 the trustee prepared the first list of k.’s creditors, which included company e. 11. in may 2007 company e. brought proceedings against the first applicant under section 646(2) of the commerce act, as in force at the time (see paragraph 25 below), seeking to have the payments k. had made to her during the so-called “suspect period” – the period between the initial date of insolvency as declared by the plovdiv regional court and the commencement of the insolvency proceedings (the payments described in paragraph 7 above) − declared null and void and the sum received by her returned to the insolvency estate. that judgment was upheld on 12 march 2008 by the plovdiv court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”). the court of appeal’s judgment was enforceable and, at the request of k.’s trustee, a bailiff opened enforcement proceedings against the first applicant for the sums due to the insolvency estate. in december 2008 the applicant settled that debt, which also included interest and costs and expenses related to the enforcement proceedings. in the judicial proceedings against the first applicant, in a final decision of 21 january 2009 the supreme court of cassation refused to accept for examination an appeal on points of law lodged by her. the action was allowed in a judgment of 23 january 2008 of the regional court. the second applicant settled that debt, which included interest and costs and expenses related to the enforcement proceedings, in october 2008. in the insolvency proceedings against k., the majority of its assets were distributed among its creditors between november 2007 and october 2008. the insolvency proceedings continued until 2014, when company k. was wound up.
the applicants, who are husband and wife, were born in 1970 and live in chișinău. on 29 january 2008 the applicants were involved in a street protest as a result of which they were arrested and detained for six hours and forty‑five minutes. on 18 december 2008 the first applicant was again involved in a street protest, as a result of which he was arrested and detained for approximately four hours and a half. later both applicants were acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful. the facts concerning those protests were described in detail in mătăsaru and saviţchi v. moldova, no. on 29 january 2009 the first applicant organised again a street protest and was arrested again and detained for some six hours. later the applicant was acquitted and the actions of the police were found to be unlawful. on 2 november 2010 the court adopted a judgment in the case of mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above), in which it declared inadmissible the applicants’ complaints concerning the alleged breaches of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention on the ground of their failure to exhaust domestic remedies (see mătăsaru and saviţchi (cited above, § 75). after that, the applicants brought a civil action under law 1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking compensation in respect of the breach of their rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention in regard to all three street protests of 2008 and 2009. by a final judgment of 6 february 2013 the supreme court of justice acknowledged the breach of the applicnts’ rights guaranteed by articles 5 and 11 of the convention and awarded them the equivalent of 900 and 270 euros (eur), respectively.
the applicants were born in 1983, 1973, 1983, 1986, 1984 and 1984. according to the applicants’ submissions, which were not contested by the government, at the time of the lodging of the application, they were serving the prison sentences arising out of their criminal convictions which gave rise to the present application. on 21 june 2005 a gathering was held in protest at the alleged unlawful killings of 17 and 18 june 2005 in samsun. on 8 july 2005 one of the applicants, mr ahmet doğan, attended another reading out of a press statement in samsun. on 21 february 2007 the ankara public prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against twenty-three people, including the applicants, charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the mkp, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. we will resist and succeed” (“direne direne kazanacağız.”), “ 3713, except for mr ahmet doğan, who was sentenced to twenty months’ imprisonment. the court also found it established that all the applicants except for mr olcay bayraktar had chanted the slogan “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price” and that mr ahmet doğan had carried a banner bearing the slogan “ovacık martyrs are immortal”. we will resist and succeed” and “we have paid a price; we will make them pay a price.” in its judgment, the ankara assize court referred to article 10 of the convention as well as to the court’s judgment in the case of sürek v. turkey (no. 23168/94, commission’s report of 11 december 1997). hence, the applicants had incited terror. the ankara assize court concluded that chanting the slogans in question could not be considered as falling within the scope of the right to freedom of expression. on 8 july 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 31 march 2009 in so far as it concerned the applicants’ conviction. on unspecified dates the applicants served their prison sentences.
the applicant was born in 1977 and was detained at the kırıkkale f‑type prison when the application was lodged. on 1 october 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being member of a terrorist organisation. on 5 october 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the ankara assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the severity of the envisaged penalty. on 15 march 2005 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation. on 31 january 2008 the ankara assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to 15 years’ imprisonment. the court ordered the continuation of his detention. on 6 may 2009 the court of cassation quashed the judgment. the case was accordingly remitted to the ankara assize court for further examination. on 10 november 2009 the 11th chamber of the ankara assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 10 december 2009 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 10 november 2009. on 21 december 2009 the 12th chamber of the ankara assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 28 august 2012 the ankara assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 8 july 2013 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicants were born in 1964, 1957 and 1947 respectively. the first and third applicants live in ankara. the second applicant left turkey subsequent to his criminal conviction giving rise to the present application. one of the deceased was the first applicant’s nephew. the second applicant was the head of the ankara branch of the dtp at the relevant time. the third applicant was a member of the dtp and a friend of the first applicant. on 23 november 2007 the ankara public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the ankara assize court, charging the applicants and a number of other persons with dissemination of propaganda in favour of the pkk, under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713), on account of their participation in the ceremony of 21 august 2006. according to the indictment, during the ceremony photographs of the deceased and the pkk’s flag were displayed at the venue and a film about the lives of the deceased was shown. in such a context, we would like this mevlüt to be a moment of peace and fraternity.” in its judgment, the assize court observed, firstly, that the persons in whose memory the ceremony had been held were members of a terrorist organisation and that they had been killed by the security forces during an operation against that organisation. it also took the view that the choice of venue for the ceremony – the premises of a political party – and the fact that the pkk flag had been spread over the tables and photographs of members of the organisation had been displayed, contributed to raising serious doubts as to the applicants’ submissions that they had taken part in the ceremony in observance of their religious duties. it further considered that the venue where the ceremony had been held had turned into a propaganda venue in favour of the pkk. following an appeal lodged by the applicants, their conviction was upheld by a final decision of the court of cassation on 8 march 2010. the first and third applicants served their prison sentences.
the applicant was born in 1980 and is detained in pravieniškės correctional facility. in the context of that investigation, on 15 december 2009 some of the members of the organisation were arrested and in the course of imposing coercive measures on them it was established that the applicant also possibly belonged to the organisation. it appears that the applicant did not appeal against this decision. on 23 february 2011 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand for a further three months. it relied on the same grounds as those given in its previous decisions (see paragraphs 10 and 13 above). on 31 march 2011 the court of appeal upheld the decision of the vilnius regional court of 23 february 2011. the court also stated that the applicant’s argument that he had only been questioned twice during the pre-trial investigation could not be assessed in the light of a delay in the proceedings caused by the extreme complexity of the case and the intensity of the pre-trial investigation. moreover, the offences committed by the applicant had not been incidental; rather, they had been committed over a long period of time. the applicant appealed against that decision and asked that it be quashed. the applicant appealed against that decision and asked for it to be quashed. it relied on the same grounds as those given in its previous decision (see paragraph 28 above). on 15 february 2013 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand for a further three months. in addition, the court noted that the case filed contained 114 volumes and thirty-two co-accused and that the hearings had been taking place in accordance with the schedule. on 5 september 2013 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s findings. 24652/04, § 58, 15 september 2011; pawlak v. poland [committee], no.
the applicants were born in 1969, 1977 and 1980, respectively, and are currently absconding from the moldovan authorities. at the time of the events, the applicants were police officers. p. was never seen alive after that and several years later his body was found in a well. the applicants claimed that they believed p. to be a criminal and intended to take him to the police station for questioning. however, p. managed to escape from their car at a busy road crossing and ran away after having waded across a small river. the same day the centru district court issued a detention order for thirty days. the risk of interference with the investigation was determined by the fact that the investigation had just started and the risk of absconding resulted from the fact that the applicants were police officers and thus knew how the investigating authorities operated. the applicants appealed and argued, inter alia, that the investigation was not advancing as claimed by the public prosecutor and that the risk of interference could just as well be mitigated by the applicants’ house arrest. on 29 march 2011 the case was committed for trial. the prosecutor cited the same reasons as before: risk of absconding, of interfering with the investigation and of re‑offending. the court also cited the risk of absconding. on 25 may 2011 judge v. had withdrawn from the case because he had previously worked together with the third applicant. on 5 july 2011 judge m. from the rîșcani district court extended the applicants’ detention by ninety days for the same reasons as had been done earlier. on 15 july 2011 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the decision of the rîșcani district court of 5 july 2011 for the same reasons as it had done before. on 30 september 2011 the rîșcani district court acquitted the applicants of all charges and released them in the court room.
on 6 march 2006 the applicants were taken into police custody on suspicion of aiding and abetting the mlkp (marxist-leninist communist party), an illegal armed organisation. on 22 march 2006 the ankara public prosecutor filed an indictment with the ankara assize court against the applicants. on 17 january 2007 the assize court convicted deniz bakır, metin kürekçi, necla çomak and alihan alhan of membership of a terrorist organisation under article 314 § 2 of the criminal code, on the basis of articles 220 § 7 and 314 § 3 of the same code. metin kürekçi, necla çomak and alihan alhan were sentenced to six years and three months’ imprisonment. the rest of the applicants were convicted of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) and sentenced to one year and eight months’ imprisonment each. the court found it established, on the basis of the conduct of members of the esp and the sgd and having regard to the documents found in the accused’s homes, that esp and sgd members were carrying out activities in line with the strategies of the mlkp and had been holding legally authorised demonstrations in favour of that organisation on the pretext of exercising their democratic rights. as regards selçuk mart, the court observed that he had attended the demonstration of 19 february 2006. lastly, the court noted that selçuk mart had chanted the slogan “dısa dısa serhildan mlkp kürdistan” (“rise up again and again, mlkp kurdistan”) during the demonstration of 19 february 2006. alihan alhan and deniz bakır had also previously been remanded in custody. metin kürekçi had also had written material regarding the esp and sgd. the court considered that those applicants’ acts represented continuity and diversity, and that they had an organic relationship with the mlkp. as regards levent çakır, uğur güdük, latife canan kaplan, serdar kır, selçuk mart, mehmet ali tosun, filiz uluçelebi and mesut açıkalın, the assize court noted that they had chanted slogans and carried banners and flags in favour of the mlkp during the demonstrations of 17 december 2005 or 19 february 2006 and had been in possession of banned books and documents in favour of that organisation. they were therefore convicted pursuant to section 7(2) of law no. on various dates between 10 march 2009 and 12 july 2012 all the applicants except necla çomak served the prison sentences imposed on them.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is currently in the netherlands. on 8 september 2015 the rotterdam regional court (rechtbank) acquitted the applicant of all charges. had been arrested by the moroccan security service in march or april 2014. according to the applicant, this was a strong indication that he too was a target of the moroccan security service. the relevant part of the report stated as follows:“question 1:the address ... in salouin, region of nador, is [the applicant’s] last known address in morocco. the asylum application was rejected by the deputy minister on 21 july 2016. was the person behind the radicalisation of his neighbour (the applicant), who was being detained in the netherlands in connection with terrorism. in so far as it appears from the documents submitted by [the appellant] that he is known as a terror suspect or has been convicted of facts relating to terrorism, the court considers that this has already been found credible by [the deputy minister]. reference is only made to a case of another person convicted in france, but no documents have been submitted showing that this person has been convicted of the same facts in morocco. the deputy minister] has indicated that the use of a trusted local advisor is to ensure that the authorities of the country of origin are not informed of the alien’s stay in the netherlands and of his asylum application, whereas in this case it can be assumed that the moroccan authorities, due to reports in the media there, are already aware [of this circumstance]. in the first place, this mere remark does not comprise a concrete argument as mentioned above. as the document from the criminal case file submitted by [the appellant], which possibly refers to him, is of a much earlier date than the person-specific official report of the ministry of foreign affairs, it is not plausible that this reference has given the moroccan authorities cause to open a criminal investigation against [the appellant]. no further appeal lay against this ruling. on 2 march 2017 the applicant’s lawyer was informed that the applicant’s removal to morocco had been scheduled for 4 march 2017. the government informed the court that in the context of the criminal proceedings against the applicant information had been exchanged between the moroccan and the dutch authorities through a legal assistance request submitted by the dutch authorities on 5 november 2014 and a supplementary request on 20 april 2015 (see paragraph 9 above).
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in batman. the applicant responded that he had become aware of that event when demonstrators had started to march to the cemetery where the deceased were buried. the applicant’s intention had been to express that social fact and he was against any kind of violence. when the public prosecutor reminded him of the violent acts of the pkk, the applicant once again stated that he was against violence regardless of whom it emanated from. he stated that he had not intended to disseminate propaganda in favour of the pkk or to praise a criminal. he also stated that the petition campaign entitled “i accept abdullah öcalan as a political actor” had not been started upon the instructions of the pkk. the applicant contended that he had attended the demonstrations and meetings in question in order to control the crowds and to prevent any possible disturbances. lastly, he claimed that his aim was to contribute to peace and democracy. the court ordered the applicant’s remand in custody. on 24 march 2006 the batman public prosecutor decided to transfer the investigation to the diyarbakır public prosecutor’s office, holding that the offence which the applicant had committed, namely membership of a terrorist organisation and carrying out membership activities, was not within his office’s jurisdiction. during the second hearing held on 18 july 2006 the public prosecutor submitted his observations on the merits of the case. attendance at the demonstration held on 16 november 2005 during which the demonstrators chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and abdullah öcalan and carried banners, and making a speech in kurdish addressed to the press and the demonstrators; 7. on the basis of the evidence in the file, it has been understood that during all the demonstrations and marches held in batman which abdulcelil i̇mret attended, slogans in favour abdullah öcalan were chanted and the demonstrators carried banners. the applicant applied to the diyarbakır assize court requesting it to examine whether the amended version of that provision could be considered to be in his favour and, if so, whether the execution of his sentence could be suspended. he added that he was currently serving his prison sentence.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. the applicant was sentenced to ten years and a month of imprisonment. the conviction and sentence were upheld on appeal by the stavropol regional court on 23 january 2014. on 30 june 2015 the presidium of the stavropol regional court accepted the deputy prosecutor’s request for the revision of the final conviction by virtue of article 401 of the russian criminal code, annulled the conviction in respect of the two episodes of drug sale on 17 may and 19 june 2013, declared the applicant guilty of an attempted drug sale on 10 may 2013 and sentenced him to eight years and one month of imprisonment. however, the police officers had not prevented the applicant’s subsequent criminal activities and “had again, on 17 may and 19 june 2013 performed similar operative measures”. the presidium concluded that there was no indication of the police entrapment on 10 may 2013. 433-fz, which entered into force on 1 january 2013, amended the code by introducing a new chapter 47.1 (“cassation procedure”) (“производство в суде кассационной инстанции”). first, such revision was possible only within one year after these judgments or decisions had become final. on 19 december 2014 the state duma adopted federal law no. the provisions of article 401.6 remained in force. the ccrp provides for a possibility to reopen proceedings in a criminal case when a violation of a convention right has been found by this court. the relevant provisions read as follows:article 413. initiation of [revision] proceedings “5. in 2016 the russian supreme court published an extensive report summarising the legal positions of the european court of human rights in cases where a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention has been found in view of the applicants’ conviction as a result of the police entrapment. 22486/05 and 10 others, 9 february 2016).
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in i̇zmir. in march 2002, the applicant, who was a working as a civil servant, was dismissed due gross misconduct. he applied to the administrative courts to have the annulment of that decision. in the course of the proceedings, on 4 july 2006 law no. 5525, granting amnesty to civil servants who had been subjected to disciplinary proceedings, entered into force. accordingly, in the light of this new amnesty law, on 10 april 2009 the supreme administrative court decided that there was no need to examine the merits of the case. following the entry into force of the amnesty law, the applicant applied to the administration and asked to be reinstated. his request was refused on 19 december 2006. by a decision dated 8 january 2008, the ankara administrative court found in line with the applicant’s claims and decided to annul the decision of the authorities by which they had refused to reinstate the applicant. following appeal, the case was transferred before the supreme administrative court. this opinion included substantial grounds on the merits of the case with a proposal to quash the decision of the first instance court. on 25 may 2009, relying also on the opinion of the chief public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court quashed the decision of 8 january 2008. in particular, the appeal court referred to its previous leading case which had been delivered on 17 october 2008 on a similar case and held that the amnesty law did not put an obligation on the administration to reinstate the applicant. the case was accordingly remitted before the ankara administrative court. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 november 2009.
the applicants were born in 1990, 1988 and 1957, respectively and live in chișinău. the first and the second applicants were arrested on 8 and 9 april 2009, as a result of the mass protest which took place in chișinău after the elections of 5 april 2009. they were placed in detention for ten and seven days respectively. later the charges against them were dropped. the third applicant was accused of fraud and placed in detention pending trial between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005, i.e. for nine days. later the charges against him were dropped. the government disputed the fact that the third applicant was detained between 28 july and 3 august 2005. on different dates the applicants brought civil actions under law no. 1545 (on compensation for damage caused by illegal acts of the criminal investigation bodies, the prosecution authorities or the courts) seeking 115,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 6,765 euros (eur)), mdl 600,000 (the equivalent of eur 36,700) and mdl 80,000 (the equivalent of eur 4800), respectively, in compensation for non‑pecuniary damage. on 11 december 2013, 3 july 2013 and 28 may 2014 respectively, the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicants’ detentions had been unlawful and in breach of article 5 of the convention and awarded them mdl 15,000 (the equivalent of eur 835), mdl 7,000 (the equivalent to eur 428) and mdl 6,000 (the equivalent of eur 317) respectively as compensation for the damage caused. the domestic courts found inter alia that the third applicant had been detained between 15 and 18 april 2004 and between 28 july and 3 august 2005. in addition, the first and the second applicants were part of a group of persons considered to be victims of the events of april 2009 and were awarded by two government decisions mdl 10,000 (the equivalent of eur 625) and mdl 7000 (the equivalent of eur 444), respectively.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kayseri. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant, who was a sergeant in the army had a traffic accident in 2007 and was declared “disabled” (adi malül”). on unspecified date, the applicant requested the general directorate of pension fund (the fund) (“emekli-sandığı”) to modify his retirement statute as service-disabled (“vazife malülü”), but the fund rejected that request. on 9 august 2007 the applicant brought an action before the supreme military administrative court seeking the annulment of the fund’s decision. on 22 may 2008 the supreme military administrative court dismissed the applicant’s request. on 11 september 2008 the applicant’s rectification request was rejected. during the proceedings, namely on 12 may 2008 and 29 july 2008 the public prosecutor at the supreme military administrative court filed lengthy written opinions on the case. however these opinions were not communicated to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in diyarbakır. at the time of the events he was a lawyer practising in that city. he did not benefit from the assistance of a lawyer during questioning. on the same day the public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with the diyarbakır state security court, accusing the applicant of membership of an illegal organisation. on an unspecified date the applicant’s lawyers lodged a petition with the trial court. at the hearing on 4 december 2001, during which the applicant was not present, m.s.b. had denied those statements at a later point. on 18 november 2003 the applicant’s lawyer applied for the expansion of the investigation and the cross-examination of the witnesses who had confirmed the applicant’s membership of hizbullah. he mentioned, in particular, the names of n.s. who had given statements against the applicant. had not repeated his police statements against the applicant at a later point as alleged by the public prosecutor in his written opinion. had claimed to have taken courses run by the applicant until the latter started his military service and asked the trial court to obtain information as regards the dates the applicant had served in the army in order to prove that those allegations were not credible. on 27 january 2004 the court refused the application for the expansion of the investigation, without stating anything as regards the cross-examination of witnesses. the court nevertheless added the statements of n.s. on 18 april 2006 the diyarbakır assize court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment.
mr vasilevskiy was born in 1973 and lives in blagoveshchensk. mr vasilevskiy stayed in detention for longer that he should have because the sentencing courts did not count the time he had spent in pre-trial detention towards the overall duration of his sentence, in breach of the applicable domestic provisions. in response to mr vasilevskiy’s repeated complaints, on 7 may 2007 the belogorskiy district court in the amur region corrected the error and acknowledged that his sentence had expired on 26 february 2006. mr vasilevskiy was released on 13 june 2007. he sought compensation for 472 days during which he had been wrongfully detained. mr vasilevskiy lodged an appeal, submitting in particular that that sum was substantially lower than that which the court would have awarded in a similar case. on 28 february 2014 the amur regional court dismissed his appeal. as regards the level of compensation, it held that the town court had “had regard to the case-law of the european court but had correctly determined the amount of compensation in respect of non-pecuniary damage in the light of the requirements of russian law”. mr bogdanov was born in 1981 and lives in the novgorod region. on 30 march 2007 mr bogdanov was convicted of supplying drugs on four separate occasions in 2006 and sentenced to twelve years’ imprisonment. it declared that part of evidence inadmissible, voided his conviction in that part, reduced his sentence to six years’ imprisonment and ordered his immediate release. by that time, mr bogdanov had spent 119 days in custody over and above the adjusted six-year sentence. he sought to recover damages in respect of his wrongful imprisonment. on 13 march 2014 the valdayskiy district court in the novgorod region awarded him rub 80,000 (eur 1,576). on 30 september 2014 the regional court rejected a cassation appeal lodged by mr bogdanov.
the applicants were born in 1982 and 1983 respectively and are currently serving sentences in penal facilities in the republic of komi and the murmansk region respectively. throughout this time the applicants remained without legal assistance. their families were unaware of their whereabouts. after their transfer to the remand prison in december 2002 the applicants made several complaints to the prosecutor’s office of the chechen republic of their having been subjected to torture while in police custody at orb-2. however, the institution of criminal proceedings was refused. on 25 november 2003, during the course of the trial, the applicants complained to the court that during their unrecorded detention (between 25 and 30 september in respect of the first applicant and between 19 and 24 september in respect of the second applicant) they had been subjected to torture involving electric shocks, gas masks, beatings and threats by officers of orb-2 and forced into making a confession. the decision, in so far as it concerns the applicants, reads as follows:“[s.] submitted that he had been in charge of the pre-trial investigation of the criminal case [against the applicants] and that operational assistance had been provided by officers of [orb-2], including the chief operational officer, yakh. they were sentenced to twenty‑five years’ imprisonment. the court also relied on statements by prosecution witnesses, including ts., l. and k., and victims, although these did not link the applicants to the crimes they had been charged with. the case file contains no further information about the outcome of the additional pre-investigation inquiry. it was likely that over time they would be unable to travel and would have no opportunity to visit their son. on 4 december 2006 the second applicant asked the prosecutor general of russia to transfer him to a penal facility in the chechen republic or a nearby region. he pointed to difficulties in terms of family visits and contact. on 15 march 2007 the fsin again rejected the second applicant’s request.
the applicants, mr i̇rfan dündar and mr fırat aydınkaya, were born in 1972 and 1979 respectively and live in istanbul. at the material time, the applicants were the legal representatives of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, an illegal armed organisation. on 29 and 30 april 2004 the newspaper ülkede özgür gündem published two interviews with the applicants. the interviews contained the applicants’ statements following meetings with their client, abdullah öcalan, in prison. the first interview was included in two articles in the issue of 29 april 2004 entitled “lawyers convey abdullah öcalan’s opinions concerning developments within the kongra-gel[1]” and “the pain of change”. on 30 april 2004 the public prosecutor at the now defunct istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. subsequently, criminal proceedings were launched against the applicants before the istanbul assize court. on 7 may 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a second bill of indictment against the applicants, again charging them with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 on account of the interview published in the 30 april 2004 issue of the newspaper. on 24 august 2004 the istanbul assize court decided to join the two sets of criminal proceedings against the applicants owing to the factual and legal similarities between them. they stressed that they had not acted with the intention of disseminating propaganda in favour of any illegal organisation. it sentenced them to ten months’ imprisonment each, but decided to suspend pronouncement of their convictions on condition that they did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years, in accordance with article 231 of the code of criminal procedure. in its judgment, the istanbul court held that the applicants had overstepped the limits of the lawyer-client relationship and made statements in a manner that induced and promoted the adoption, dissemination and enrootment of abdullah öcalan’s opinions in society. the court further considered that the right to freedom of expression carried with it duties and responsibilities and could be restricted for the purpose of protecting national security and territorial integrity in a democratic society. the istanbul assize court concluded that the reported interviews were aimed at disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk/kongra-gel and found the applicants guilty.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in split. the applicant, her husband and their two sons moved into that flat some time in 1973. once the applicant moved out from the flat in gajeva street her brother moved in. he remained living there with his family until 1982, when he moved out. the two administrative proceedings were subsequently joined. at the hearing held on 16 september 1982, the applicant stated that after her brother had moved out of the flat in gajeva street she had moved in with her mother who was, owing to her age, in need of care and no longer able to live alone (see paragraphs 9-10 above). by a decision of 17 december 1982, the first-instance housing authority dismissed the applicant’s application for an exchange of flats, and ordered her to vacate the flat in gajeva street. by a decision of 1 february 1985 the second-instance administrative authority dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance decision of 10 october 1984. it therefore, by a decision of 6 november 1987, again dismissed the applicant’s application for an exchange of flats and ordered her to vacate the flat in gajeva street. the court held that the issue of whether the flat in šimićeva street had fully satisfied the applicant’s and her family’s housing needs had to be determined by applying relevant military housing standards and not general housing standards, given that the flat in question had been awarded to her husband as a serviceman (see paragraph 7 above). in the resumed proceedings, by a decision of 6 december 1999 the first-instance housing authority again ordered the applicant to vacate the flat in gajeva street, finding that at the time that she had moved into the flat in šimićeva street the latter flat had satisfied her and her family’s housing needs, having regard to the relevant military housing standards. in the resumed proceedings, by a judgment of 12 may 2005 the administrative court again dismissed the applicant’s action. by a decision of 13 july 2011 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. on 16 may 2012 the applicant was evicted. on 8 may 1992 the applicant obtained a declaratory judgment by the same court whereby she was declared the sole holder of the specially protected tenancy of the flat in gajeva street.
the applicant was born in 1971 and at the time of introduction of the application to the court he was detained in diavata prison. the applicant is serving a life sentence for drug dealing. on 7 august 2016 he had been placed in cell no. gr 2 on the ground floor, which had measured 24 sq. m. overcrowding had exposed him to infectious diseases and he had suffered from passive smoking. apart from the overcrowding, the applicant submitted that the conditions of his detention had been very poor. access to natural light and ventilation had been inadequate. in each ten-person cell there had been five bunk beds, five stools, a small table and five side tables but no lockable space for personal belongings. the mattresses had been old, mouldy and smelly, and sheets and towels had not been provided. the hours that they had been allowed to spend in the corridors had been insufficient, taking into account that they had coincided with the meal times as well as with the times they had been allowed to receive visits or make phone calls. the yard had included a football field but no balls had been provided to the detainees and the yard had not offered any opportunities for spending time creatively. the government, referring to a document provided by the prison authorities, submitted that diavata prison had a capacity of 358 detainees on the basis of allocation of 4 sq. at the time the applicant had been detained, the prison facility had exceeded its capacity by accommodating 460 to 500 detainees. as regards the rest of the applicant’s complaints, the government argued that the prison had had a central heating system, in addition to the electric heating devices that had been provided to each cell. detainees had had access to hot water and had been provided regularly with personal hygiene products.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in montana. on 20 august 1997 the applicant’s daughter was killed in a traffic accident. several other people were killed or injured as well. criminal proceedings were opened against h.h. and in 1998 he was indicted and brought to court. the applicant did not bring such a claim. and his employer jointly liable to pay damages to the civil parties. finding serious breaches of the procedural rules, it remitted the case to the prosecuting authorities, so that it could be restarted from the stage of the preliminary investigation. the regional court accepted for examination a civil claim against h.h. and his employer brought by the applicant, and recognised her as civil party to the proceedings. of causing the deaths of several people and injuring others, and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment. on 12 march 2003 the court of appeal upheld h.h. the regional court examined the case for a third time, only in relation to the part concerning the civil claims, and on 6 april 2004 gave a judgment. upon an appeal by the applicant, that conclusion was upheld by the supreme court of cassation on 4 march 2007. the applicant had to bear the adverse consequences of having brought her claim in the context of the criminal proceedings in breach of the rules, and this was so notwithstanding the fact that the claim had been, erroneously, initially accepted for examination by the regional court.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in bielsk podlaski. the facts of the case were not in dispute and may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in siedlce prison from 26 january to 19 april 2007 and from 15 july to 15 october 2009. he also submitted that he had been held in cells with smokers. moreover, he raised the problems of humidity, lack of hygiene and warm water and limited access to make telephone calls. the domestic courts found that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell during his detention in siedlce prison from 15 july to 15 october 2009 (91 days), when he had been assigned to cell no. 616 (15.94 m²) with 5 other prisoners (2.65 m² per person). the courts further found that the toilet areas had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells in compliance with the relevant law. the toilet annex had only cold running water. it was further noted that the cells were adequately equipped. the applicant was held in cells in accordance with his declaration about his tobacco habits. on 13 july 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in an overcrowded cell in siedlce prison. he claimed 43,000 polish zlotys (pln) (10,750 euros (eur)) in compensation. it confirmed, however, that the applicant had been detained temporarily in an overcrowded cell, from 15 july to 15 october 2009. on 17 february 2015 the siedlce regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1979 and is detained in strzelce opolskie prison. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in mysłowice remand centre from 20 april 2010 to 12 january 2011 and in wojkowice prison from 12 january 2011 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days). the parties’ statements relating to the conditions of the applicant’s detention from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 are to a large extent contradictory. the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in mysłowice remand centre and wojkowice prison, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m². in their observations, the government submitted that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells only on 20 april, 18 and 19 may 2009. in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant (see paragraphs 14-16 below), the domestic courts established, without giving any further details, that the applicant had been detained in overcrowded cells from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 (1 year, 10 months and 20 days). regarding the conditions of detention in mysłowice remand centre, the domestic court established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate. the applicant had one hot shower per week and one hour of outdoor exercise per day. regarding the conditions of detention in wojkowice prison, as established by the domestic courts, the toilets were separated from the cell’s living area, every prisoner had his own bed, a stool and access to cold running water. the prisoners had basic hygiene products at their disposal. he claimed 80,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 20,000 euros (eur)) in compensation. on 18 december 2012 the katowice regional court dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that from 20 april 2010 to 9 march 2012 the applicant had been detained in cells above the minimum statutory standard. as regards the remainder of the period, the claim was time-barred as lodged outside the three-year period of statutory limitation. it also granted the applicant pln 1,000 (eur 250) in compensation, holding that the breach of the statutory minimum standard had not been significant.
the first applicant, ms mariya vladimirovna alekhina, was born in 1988. the third applicant, ms yekaterina stanislavovna samutsevich, was born in 1982. the applicants founded pussy riot in late 2011. the band had invited journalists and media to the performance to gain publicity. while the third applicant was being pushed away by the guard, three of the other band members continued singing and dancing without music. printouts of photographs of the band’s performances and the full lyrics of punk prayer – virgin mary, drive putin away, downloaded from the group’s website, were attached to the complaint. the trial was closely followed by national and international media. the lawyers applied several times to the district court for permission to hold confidential meetings with the applicants. they were both times found fit for trial. the witnesses provided a description of the events on 21 february 2012 or of the video and attested to having been insulted by the applicants’ actions. ...it can be seen from the statements of the victims, witnesses, defendants and the material evidence that pussy riot’s performances are carried out by way of a sudden appearance by the group [in public places] with the band dressed in brightly coloured clothes and wearing balaclavas to cover [their] faces. on 10 december 2014 the supreme court instituted supervisory review proceedings upon the above applications. on 4 april 2014 the presidium of the moscow city court reviewed the case. on 26 september 2012 a state duma member, mr s., asked the prosecutor general of the russian federation to study the video of the group’s performance, to stop its dissemination and to ban the websites which had published it. [the third applicant’s] argument that charges related to a criminal offence under article 282 § 2 (c) of the russian criminal code were severed from [the first] criminal case cannot, in the court’s opinion, show that [her] rights and obligations would be influenced by the court’s decision issued in respect of the prosecutor’s request because there is no evidence that [she] took any part in disseminating the materials published on the internet sites identified by the prosecutor [.] [
the applicants, who are police officers, were born in 1967, 1978, 1976, 1979 and 1964 respectively. the first and second applicants live in chișinău and caușeni and the remaining applicants live in bender. during their arrest they managed to call the bender police station. the other two applicants (officers daţco and pohila) went to tiraspol to clarify the reasons for the arrest of their colleagues, but were also arrested upon their arrival. on 18 june 2006 officer mangîr was allegedly beaten up and injected with an unknown substance, which rendered him unconscious for four days. on 20 june 2006 the tiraspol city court issued a warrant for officer mangîr to be detained for thirty days. on 23 june 2006 the “mrt” authorities released officers mangîr and condrea. the applicants were accused in the “mrt” media of being members of “black squadrons” created for the purpose of kidnapping politicians and other persons causing nuisance to the moldovan authorities. the applicants described as follows their conditions of detention at the tiraspol remand centre. the cells in which they had been held had been in the basement and had not had access to natural light. in the absence of ventilation and because of overcrowding it had been difficult to breathe. during their detention the applicants did not have any daily exercise and were not given access to a shower; they could not receive parcels containing food from their relatives, they did not have bed linen and they were not allowed to be seen by doctors. however, several years later the investigation was discontinued. the applicants were also subjected to medical check-ups, which found no traces of violence on their bodies. only one applicant, stefan mangîr, was found to be suffering from the consequences of concussion.
the first applicant was born in 1976 and is serving a sentence of imprisonment in the sverdlovsk region. the second applicant was born in 1950 and lives in vladivostok. the second applicant was included in the agreement as a member of the first applicant’s family. on the same date he was arrested and on 10 october 2014 he was detained pending investigation. on an unspecified date in 2016 the first applicant was released and placed under house arrest. on 25 november 2014 the first applicant received notice to vacate the flat by 5 december 2014. the first applicant contested those claims. on 27 february 2015 the frunzenskiy district court (“the district court”) dismissed the eviction claims. as at the date of the examination of the prosecutor’s appeal the question regarding the transfer of ownership of the flat in question to the first applicant had not been decided. he complained that the hearing of 8 june 2015 had been held in his absence and that as a result he had been evicted from the only accommodation he had had. on 30 september 2015 a judge of the supreme court refused to refer the first applicant’s cassation appeal to the civil chamber of the supreme court for examination. in june 2015 the first applicant’s brother (mr d. pylayev) initiated court proceedings for the second applicant to be deprived of legal capacity and for him to be appointed as her guardian. on 11 may 2016 the district court declared that the second applicant lacked legal capacity because she was suffering from illness. that judgment entered into force on 14 june 2016. on 29 june 2016 the local public health department appointed the first applicant’s brother as her guardian.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in orenburg. from 8 p.m. to midnight on 30 august 2009, and from 12 noon to 6 p.m. on 31 august 2009, police officers k. and m. subjected the applicant to physical and psychological violence in order to obtain a confession from him about a drug-related crime which they suspected him of having committed. k. placed a plastic bag over his head, closing off his access to air, while m. held him down. as regards the ill-treatment on 31 august 2009, officers k. and m. punched the applicant numerous times in the head and threatened to detain him. at 8 p.m. on 31 august 2009 the applicant was formally arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs and placed in a temporary detention facility. on the same day he sought medical help at a traumatology centre (tp no. according to his medical records, he had abrasions on his forearms, a bruise under his right eye, a bruise in the left lumbar region and abrasions on his legs. on 3 september 2009 the applicant made a complaint to the orenburg regional investigative committee regarding his ill‑treatment. the expert concluded that the applicant’s injuries had resulted from being struck repeatedly with a hard, blunt object with a limited surface area on the day of the alleged incident, and had not caused any “health damage”. subsequent forensic medical expert reports of 4 december 2009 and 21 october 2010 came to similar conclusions. officers k. and m. were convicted under article 286 § 3 (a) of the criminal code and banned from exercising official duties for three years. the following circumstances were taken into account in sentencing the police officers. the fact that officer k. had a child under 14 years old was considered a mitigating circumstance, while the fact that he and m. had committed the crime with a group of other officers was considered an aggravating circumstance. in 2012 the applicant brought a civil claim against the russian ministry of finance, seeking 2,655,936 russian roubles (rub) in compensation for his unlawful detention and ill‑treatment in police custody by k. and m. 16. the applicant appealed against that judgment to the orenburg regional court, which on 19 september 2012 increased the amount of compensation to rub 80,000.
the applicant was born in 1979 and before his conviction lived in izhevsk. on 3 march and 10 march 2005 the police interviewed the applicant, in the presence of the applicant’s lawyer, about the circumstances of the murder case under investigation. no suspicions were raised against the applicant. at an unspecified time after midnight he left s.’s flat. on his way home he entered a nearby house to urinate. the record further stated that the confession had been handwritten by the applicant himself without any coercion on the part of police officers, and that the applicant had been informed of article 51 of the constitution (the right not to give self-incriminating statements), which he had understood. at 00.05 a.m. on 23 march 2005 a record of the applicant’s arrest was drawn up. later on the same day, 23 march 2005, the applicant was provided with a legal-aid lawyer and questioned as a suspect. during the questioning the applicant retracted his confession, asserting that it had been given as a result of coercion and in the absence of a lawyer. he consistently repudiated his confession throughout the ensuing proceedings. on 27 may 2005 an investigator from the ustinovskiy district prosecutor’s office issued a decision not to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers who had allegedly ill-treated the applicant. on 22 august 2005 the trial against the applicant commenced. the applicant appealed against the conviction. the supreme court held, in particular, that the law did not require the presence of a lawyer at the moment of giving a confession. on 4 july 2006 the applicant was transferred to correctional colony ik-8 of the republic of udmurtiya to serve his sentence.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in kópavogur. at the material time he was a well-known personality in iceland who for years had published articles, blogs and books and appeared in films, on television and other media, under pseudonyms. some of the applicant’s published views attracted some attention, as well as controversy. these included, inter alia, his views about women and their sexual freedom. the applicant had often justified such conduct by stating that the material had been meant in jest and that those who criticised him lacked a sense of humour (see egill einarsson v. iceland, no. in november 2011, an 18-year-old woman reported to the police that the applicant and his girlfriend had raped her. the applicant submitted a complaint to the police about false accusations made against him by the two women. extensive dialogue took place on the site that day. later that day, x posted a comment on the above‑mentioned facebook page which stated, inter alia: “this is also not an attack on a man for saying something wrong, but for raping a teenage girl ... it is permissible to criticise the fact that rapists appear on the cover of publications which are distributed all over town ...”. by letter the following day, x’s lawyer opposed the applicant’s claims and submitted that the impugned statements were not defamatory. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s claim for the imposition on x of a criminal punishment under the penal code, as well as rejecting the claim to have x carry the cost of publishing the main content and reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper. however, when assessing the damage suffered by [the applicant], it has to be taken into account how [the applicant] has built a certain reputation by his conduct in public. additionally, the comments were removed from the website when [the applicant] so requested. furthermore, [the applicant’s] claim to have [x] carry the cost of publishing the main content and the reasoning of the judgment in a newspaper will not be accepted. the dissenting judge agreed with the majority to declare the impugned statements null and void.
the applicants were born in 1956, 1952, 1975, and 1980 respectively. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 2 march 2010 the real estate administration in tivat (uprava za nekretnine, područna jedinica tivat), acting upon the first applicant’s request, issued a decision allowing the division into two of an adjacent plot of land, a forest in the coastal zone, the registered owner of which at the time was the municipality. they also submitted that: (a) section 30 of the coastal zone act had never been complied with even though it was indisputable that their predecessor had lawfully owned the land; and (b) the relevant legislation did not prohibit private ownership of land in the coastal zone, and referred to section 4 of the coastal zone act and section 20 of the property act 2009 (see paragraphs 21 and 19 below). they reiterated that the adjacent plot of land, also a forest in the coastal zone, was privately owned, by them, and submitted the decision of the real estate administration of 2 march 2010. on 11 october 2012 the supreme court (vrhovni sud) upheld the previous judgments. the court made no explicit reference to the adjacent plot of land and the decision of 2 march 2010. it held as follows:“as the real estate at issue is in the coastal zone regime – common resource (dobro od opšteg interesa), the lower courts correctly applied the substantive law when they ruled in the said way. that means that the land did not remain in the private property regime, but became state property by the law itself. they invoked the right to a fair trial and the right to property, and reiterated the importance of legal certainty. on 23 july 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional appeal. 1 the court held that a claim which had been dismissed because the claimants did not meet statutory conditions was not considered a possession that could constitute property rights, and thus there could be no violation of such a right either. this decision was served on 13 october 2014 at the earliest. on 16 december 2014 the third and fourth applicants’ father died, leaving the third and fourth applicants as his heirs. it can also be concluded that the issue of lawfully acquired rights in respect of the coastal zone is not regulated in a precise and clear manner...”, but that it was a fact that there were lawfully acquired property rights over the coastal zone, as indicated by section 30 of the coastal zone act.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in the corradino correctional facility, paola, malta. the applicant is currently serving a term of imprisonment for drug-related offences. the applicant started to serve his prison sentence and on 10 december 2009 he had been placed in division 2 (cell no. 88) of the corradino correctional facility. the applicant alleged that a huge amount of maintenance was needed to the area due to its old age (around 200 years old) and that it lacked both light and air. the “environment” was squalid and had a bad smell. in the period during which he had been placed in cell no. in winter the cell was very humid and cold. when, on 26 december 2014, he moved to cell no. furthermore, he claimed to hardly ever having had access to running water. access to water was limited in general, and water available was not potable. while inmates were permitted to buy bottled water, they were forced to reduce their daily intake when they were short on cash. he complained that the prison allowance given to detainees was too little. it took thirty minutes for someone from the staff to show up, at which point he was told off by the staff member. petitions were filed in regard to these conditions.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in bezhetsk, tver region. according to him, he did not resist the arrest, but the police officers kicked and punched him on the legs, in the kidneys and around the groin region at least seven times. then two police officers took him out of the cell and led him to a room. between 3.05 p.m. and 5.20 p.m. the applicant was examined as a suspect in the presence of a state-appointed lawyer, k., in the ivs. they retained a lawyer, r., who came to see the applicant on the same day. on 12 july 2005 the applicant was brought before a judge of the ruza district court, who ordered that he be placed in pre-trial detention. r., who represented the applicant at the hearing, submitted that the latter had been subjected to ill-treatment by the police officers from the moment of his arrest. the expert concluded that the injuries could have been inflicted on the date and in the circumstances described by the applicant with a hard blunt object of limited surface area. they stated that they had used force lawfully during the applicant’s arrest and submitted that they had had to lay him down on the floor, and while handcuffing him, had pressed their knees into his back to keep him still. in august 2005 the ruza town prosecutor made a submission (представление) to the head of the ruza district police department, requiring him to conduct an internal inquiry into the applicant’s ill-treatment by unidentified police officers in the ivs and to subject those responsible to disciplinary proceedings. r. lodged an appeal against the decision of 21 july 2005 with the ruza district court. on 16 august 2005 the ruza town prosecutor annulled the decision of 21 july 2005 and ordered an additional inquiry into the applicant’s allegations of ill‑treatment. on 30 june 2006 the prosecutor provided him with a copy of a decision issued by an investigator of the ruza town prosecutor’s office dated 23 august 2005 refusing to open criminal proceedings against the police officers. the moscow regional court sentenced him to eighteen years’ imprisonment. it stated that the trial court had duly assessed the applicant’s allegations of ill-treatment, noting that the applicant had never denied the use of force by the police to restrain him during his apprehension.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. these villages are under moldovan control. 43370/04 and 2 others, §§ 8‑42, echr 2012 (extracts)). title to some of the land was subsequently transferred to others through gift or inheritance. are companies which rented land from owners during the relevant period of time. 41569/04 and declared that it maintained that application before the court. as a consequence, all access to their land was blocked and the harvest was lost. some of the agricultural machines belonging to those who tried to work their land were also seized. no work was done on the land in the following two years, which made it difficult to bring it back to its former capacity. such a passage was refused because the authorities considered the land in question to be the property of the “mrt”. a similar protest took place on 11 may 2005. submitted a certificate from the mayor of molovata nouă village dated 11 october 2004, confirming that it rented 450 hectares of land from the villagers there, all of which were situated across the road, between dubăsari and rîbnița (the relevant area). rented land from 782 villagers during the period 2004-2006. a similar decision was taken on 16 august 2004, by which the applicant company lost 6.1 tonnes of apples. on 4 august 2004 the applicant company complained to the moldovan government, the osce and the dubăsari prosecutor’s office (belonging to the “mrt”) about the fine and seizure, stating that it rented 1,256 hectares of villagers’ land situated in the relevant area and that despite having temporary registration with the “mrt customs office” it was not allowed to take the harvest to storage.
the first applicant is the mother of the second applicant and of ms anna politkovskaya, who was born in 1958 and died in 2006. at an early stage of the investigation investigators inspected the crime scene, collected footage from surveillance cameras located in the vicinity, and examined logs of telephone connections made in the area around the time of the killing. they also questioned ms politkovskaya’s colleagues, friends and family as witnesses. on 29 august 2007 a press officer of the moscow city court (“the city court”) disclosed to the public a list of ten people detained in connection with anna politkovskaya’s assassination. were formally charged with contract killing in conspiracy with others. in june 2008 the investigators prepared a case against s.kh., on 20 february 2009 the circuit court acquitted s.kh., on 3 september 2009 the supreme court granted the third and fourth applicants’ application, and the case was transferred to the prosecutor’s office for further investigation. on unspecified dates the charges against p.r. on 26 august 2011 the basmannyy district court of moscow (“the district court”) ordered d.p. had expressed his intention to kill the journalist and had said that d.p. was transferred to the city court for trial. on 9 june 2014 the city court delivered a judgment. were sentenced to fourteen and twelve years’ imprisonment respectively. on 26 june 2015, in the appeal proceedings, the supreme court of russia found that the guilty verdict was based on a thorough examination of the evidence.
the applicants were born in 1964 and 1973 respectively and are detained in corradino correctional facility, paola, malta. since 10 january 2013 he has been detained in division 3, cell no. the first applicant has never asked for a transfer because, although there were prospects that he would be transferred to a division with an automated flushing system, this would also have meant that he would lose his individual cell and be placed in a dormitory, to the detriment of his privacy. he stated that the cell does not have adequate ventilation and it is subject to high temperatures in the summer and low temperatures in the winter. he alleged that he had not been provided with a heater during the winter and that his requests to this effect had been turned down. the prison authorities had provided him only with one blanket, other blankets and clothes having been received from ngos. he also claimed that he has to use a bucket to flush his toilet. given the low water pressure, it takes time to fill a bucket and sometimes more than one bucket is necessary to flush the toilet, making the situation deplorable, especially in the summer. as the building housing the division is more than 150 years old, the ceiling releases dust, which is allegedly harmful to the first applicant’s lungs. the first applicant submitted that he does not have access to drinking water, since the tap water is rusty and filthy, and he therefore has to purchase drinking water. the second applicant, who is a national of the dominican republic, has been detained in corradino correctional facility since 24 november 2009. he is serving a nine-year prison sentence following a judgment of 15 october 2012. the government submitted that the second applicant received eur 41.58 every four weeks in so-called “gratuity remuneration” and from the “work and pay” scheme, with which he had become involved prior to 2015. the second applicant also submitted that because of the humidity in his cell and the fact that he does not have a heater, he frequently catches the flu during the winter months. natural light came in through three skylights and artificial light was provided through bell lamps of 400w each.
the applicants were born in 1937, 1934 and 1941 respectively. the first and third applicants live in sofia. the applicants’ fathers owned printing houses in sofia, which were nationalised by the communist authorities in 1949 and 1950. after that their assets were taken over by a state-owned printing house. among the tasks of the company is the printing of school textbooks. in march 1998 the first and second applicants and their mother applied under the compensation act to receive compensation for the nationalised printing house. despite that, in another decision dated 3 july 2000 the minister rejected the request for compensation. after that an expert prepared a valuation of the nationalised property, which was confirmed by the minister of education on 5 june 2003. however, on 26 august 2003 the minister adopted another decision, stating that the applicants and their mother were to receive compensation bonds instead of shares. the domestic court held in particular that section 11 of the concluding provisions mentioned above could not justify such a modification. their request was allowed by the minister of education in a decision of 22 december 1998. the last of them, stating that the third applicant, her mother and her sister were entitled to compensation for bgn 26,309 (the equivalent of eur 13,460), equalling 263 shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead, each with a face value of bgn 100, was confirmed by the minister of education on 6 june 2003. that decision was quashed by the supreme administrative court in a final judgment of 31 march 2004, on the ground that it impermissibly modified the previous decisions concerning the compensation to be provided, which had become final. in 2007 the ministry of education requested the privatisation agency to authorise the transfer to private parties of shares in ‘obrazovanie i nauka’ ead. the ministry took no further measures to complete the compensation procedures.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in skopje. at the time of the events he was vice-president of the sdsm opposition party and a member of parliament. the relevant part of the applicant’s statement at the press conference reads as follows:“in the year and a half he has formally been head of the security and counter intelligence agency and practically the head of the police, has m. (the plaintiff’s surname), abused his powers in order to influence the macedonian stock exchange and have timely information to enable him to obtain a profit? had paid taxes on his property, which had been assessed as being worth several million euros (eur). the applicant did not submit any comments in reply. replied to the allegations by sdsm by saying that the money in question was linked to a lawful business which he had abroad’ and the tape continues with the plaintiff’s statement ...” 12. on 3 november 2009 the trial court, sitting as a single-judge (judge v.m.), the defence cannot rely on article 176 of the criminal code and (claim) that the (impugned) expression should have been examined in the context of the position he held, namely vice-president of an opposition political party. in that connection, it referred to article 172 of the criminal code, which punished the dissemination of untrue information that could affect the reputation and dignity of a third party. he had also not signed the sale contract with the company that had been chosen. the trial court scheduled seventeen hearings. and viewed audio and video material of television coverage of the applicant’s statement. the relevant parts of the trial court’s judgment read as follows:“... the court considers ... that [the applicant’s] [statement described in paragraph 20 above] could have a considerable effect on the complainant’s reputation and dignity ... since he is the holder of a public office and (such) statements are disseminated quickly and aggressively in public. accordingly, [the applicant] was required to prove that his statement was true, which is not the case ... the contents of the statement, the time, place and way in which it was given imply that it was serious and that it could objectively create a perception in the minds of third parties about certain facts. the freedom of political debate is not of an absolute nature ... the court notes that the impugned statement concerns the public sale of state-owned building land ... and should be considered in the context of a debate concerning an issue of public interest, which in particular was of prime political interest ...the court considers that the veracity of the statement ... was of primary importance for the courts.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in riga. on 17 october 2000 the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu komisija) granted the applicant a disability status of category 3 (the least severe level of disability) on the grounds of a visual impairment. on 16 october 2001 following an examination the medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work declined the applicant’s request to prolong her disability status. on 9 november 2001 this decision was upheld by the state medical commission for the assessment of health and fitness for work (veselības un darbspēju ekspertīzes ārstu valsts komisija, hereinafter ‑ the commission) and on 5 december 2001 by an extended composition of that commission. the applicant challenged the decision of the commission before a court. on 22 april 2002 the riga city zemgale district court declined the claim. on 30 july 2004 the regional administrative court annulled the decision of 5 december 2001 due to lack of reasoning and ordered the commission to carry out a new examination. on 30 november 2004 this judgment was upheld by the administrative cases division of the supreme court. on 11 january 2005, following a new examination by an extended composition, the commission again refused to grant the applicant the status of a disabled person. on 9 january 2006 the applicant brought a claim to the administrative district court challenging the commission’s decision and requesting to be granted the status of a disabled person from 16 october 2001. on 29 september 2006 the administrative district court declined the applicant’s claim. this judgment was upheld by the regional administrative court. the administrative cases division of the supreme court two times quashed the judgments of the regional administrative court for its failure to follow the interpretation of the domestic law given by the supreme court. on 24 november 2010 the regional administrative court declined the applicant’s claim, and on 14 march 2011 the administrative cases division of the supreme court refused to institute cassation proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in batumi. on 28 february 2004 doctors observed that g.b. had been admitted with traumatic injuries. an investigator visited the hospital but was unable to question him in view of his state of health. ’s death and the applicant was questioned the following day. the applicant once again refused to allow implementation. out of the 29 doctors who took part in patient g.b. ’s treatment, the invited specialists ... in endoscopy and ophthalmology do not hold a licence to practise medicine. the doctor ... working as a transfusion specialist is a certified paediatrician ...... [i]t is evident that the surgery, the sole purpose of which was to definitively determine the cause of bleeding and stop it, was carried out too late. on 20 january 2006, relying on the expert reports and the medical documentation available in the case files, the batumi city court ruled in favour of the applicant. ’s treatment in [the hospital] the medical negligence of the medical staff (insufficient attention towards the patient, misdiagnosis) caused harm to a person’s health and eventually caused the patient’s ... death.” the appellate court continued to note that:“in addition to establishing that harm was caused to a person’s health as a result of the medical negligence of the [hospital] staff, it can also be established from the case files that [the hospital] was carrying out unlicensed activities in a number of medical fields and at the same time some of the medical staff did not have authorisation to practise medicine independently, in violation of the requirements of the [relevant legislation]...” 34. as regards who should be held responsible for the hospital and its doctors operating without the necessary licences, it was noted that:“the ministry of health of the aar cannot be held responsible in the present case ... for [the hospital] operating in certain medical fields without the requisite licences considering that, in accordance with section 54 of the health care act, the issuance of such licences is [the exclusive competence] of the ministry of health of georgia. of the medical staff invited to treat ... mr g.b. ... the doctor ... certified as a paediatrician was working as a transfusion specialist.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in warsaw. the domestic court relied on a strong likelihood that the applicant had committed the offences in question, on the fact that he faced a severe penalty and that he was suspected of acting with accomplices. the likelihood that the applicant had committed the offences in question was established, in particular, on the basis of the testimony of a key prosecution witness (the so-called “crown witness”). in these decisions, the court repeated the reasons originally relied on. in its decision of 21 february 2013, the warsaw regional court further noted that the case against the applicant was complex, and indicated a number of steps that still had to be taken in order to terminate the investigation. the applicant appealed against all these decisions, without success. on 21 november 2013 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) ordered a further extension of the applicant’s detention on remand. it relied on the same grounds as previously given for his detention. the bill of indictment against the applicant was lodged with the warsaw regional court on 30 december 2013. the bill of indictment concerned altogether seventeen accused, charged with 150 offences. the appeals by the applicant against decisions extending his detention and all his applications for release were unsuccessful. on 25 may 2016 the warsaw court of appeal upheld the decision. on 30 may 2016 the warsaw regional court again ordered the applicant’s release on bail of pln 80,000. it also imposed a prohibition on leaving the country. the case against the applicant and his co-accused appears to be pending before the warsaw regional court (no.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in yerevan. she suffers from cardiac problems, including a heart rhythm disorder. in particular, they assaulted her, grabbed her hands, insulted her and forcibly took a document concerning her which she had taken in to them in order to write down her objections. had refused to provide any clarifications, stating that he was the one to make decisions and would submit the report to the relevant division without her signature. had immediately closed and locked the door to his office and had started to approach her, shouting that she was a thief and had stolen a document from his office. she made a statement giving an account of events similar to that in her report to the head of staff of the ministry. she stated that she had no objections to the opinion of the forensic medical expert and intended to pursue her complaint. on 25 january 2012 the investigator took another additional statement from the applicant. said that but it is logical that they would deny committing such acts. i am complaining and requesting that h.a. in particular, the prosecutor upheld the investigator’s refusal to institute criminal proceedings but changed the grounds for it, stating that no crime had been committed involving h.a. as regards the applicant, the decision stated, inter alia, that because the stress she had suffered as a result of the incident in h.a. in the end, it had never been established who had inflicted her injuries. if criminal proceedings were instituted, they would have the procedural status of witnesses and would be warned about criminal liability for making false statements. on 6 september 2012 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal on points of law inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicant organisation is a public notary professional association and has its main office in bucharest. they informed a receptionist that they were clients. the receptionist asked them to leave the premises and to wait outside, but they refused. on 23 april 2008 the applicant organisation, legally represented by d.o.r., moreover, according to the available evidence, an official order from the prosecutor would in any case not have been necessary in this regard because the seized documents and sums of money had been turned over to the officers without any objections. a large number of police officers had been mobilised for an operation aimed at catching the suspects red‑handed. the two police officers had entered the premises of the applicant organisation, disclosed their identity and the fact that they were police officers, and proceeded to seize the relevant documents and fees. their presence on the applicant organisation’s premises had not amounted to the offence of unlawful home intrusion because the premises of the applicant organisation constituted by their nature a public area and the event in question had occurred during working hours. it considered that the two police officers, accompanied by other colleagues, had carried out an operational mission seeking to catch suspects red-handed in the commission of an offence and to gather evidence. the court considered, however, that such a measure could not be contested by way of an appeal against the prosecutor office’s decisions but rather by a complaint lodged with the prosecutor’s office against the acts and measures taken by the police officers. also, the first-instance court’s finding that the applicant organisation could have vented its discontent with the unlawful seizure of its fees by the police officers by means of a complaint against the acts and measures taken by the police officers (rather than by means of a criminal complaint lodged against the perpetrators – see paragraph 22 above) had amounted to a breach of its right of access to court. on 8 july 2010 the bucharest prosecutor’s office informed the applicant organisation that the criminal case in question had been referred to the domestic courts which had the authority to examine its requests. moreover, the applicant organisation had not proved that it had suffered non-pecuniary damage. the applicant organisation appealed against the judgment. on 17 november 2011 the bucharest court of appeal dismissed the applicant organisation’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mykolayiv. on 4 june 2009, in response to a claim brought by the applicant against o. concerning hindrance of access to the child, the leninsky district court of mykolayiv granted the applicant rights of access to his daughter. in the autumn of 2009 o. and s. moved to selydove in the donetsk region. the distance between mykolayiv and selydove is about 600 kilometres by road. on 27 january 2010, when o. and s. arrived for a short stay in mykolayiv, the applicant attempted to see his daughter, but o. refused to let him take the child overnight. on 29 march 2012 the state bailiff opened the enforcement proceedings. the final decision was taken by the hscu, which on 3 august 2012 dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law. on 21 june 2013 the leninskyy dstrict police department in mykolayiv opened criminal proceedings following the applicant’s complaint that o. had refused to comply with the judgment of 4 june 2009. the applicant challenged that decision in the court. it found that o. had prevented the applicant from properly exercising his access rights and ruled that the applicant should be given the opportunity of spending one month with his daughter during the summer and one week during the winter school holidays every year until she attained the age of majority. on 26 may 2016 the selydove department of state bailiffs’ service opened enforcement proceedings in relation to the judgment of 8 december 2015. in spring 2014 illegal armed groups associated with two self‑proclaimed entities known as the “donetsk people’s republic” and the “luhansk people’s republic” started operating in the donetsk and luhansk regions, seizing control of certain parts of those regions by force. in august 2014 the applicant lodged a claim with the selydove court seeking a declaration that o. was unlawfully failing to cooperate in executing the judgment of 4 june 2009 granting the applicant access rights. he also asked the court to determine that the child’s place of residence should be his home in mykolayiv. the hscu agreed with the lower courts’ conclusion that separating the child from the mother had not been justified.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in naberezhnyye chelny. on 1 november 2004 he was arrested on suspicion of having extracted a bribe. on 10 november 2005 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic convicted the applicant and sentenced him to imprisonment. he stayed under the obligation not to leave his place of residence in naberezhnyye chelny until the conviction became final. he could leave his place of residence only upon the summons from the investigator or the court. several parties to the criminal proceedings, including the applicant, appealed against the conviction. the case was forwarded to the russian supreme court in moscow, 1,000 km away from naberezhnyye chelny. the applicant never received any summons to the appeal hearing due to the supreme court’s mistake in the postal code. neither did he receive copies of the statements of appeal filed by the prosecutor, by the co-accused, g., and the latter’s lawyer. on 28 february 2006 the conviction was upheld by the russian supreme court. neither the applicant nor his lawyer was present. in 2011 the applicant lodged a compensation claim for non-pecuniary damages caused by poor conditions of detention. in the text of his claim the applicant explicitly asked the court to consider the claim in his absence. the first-instance judgment was upheld on 4 july 2011 by the supreme court of the tatarstan republic. the applicant had been notified of that hearing on 29 june 2011.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained. was examined at the request of the public prosecutor’s office by the investigating judge, w., after the latter had decided, at the suggestion of the public prosecutor’s office, to exclude the applicant from the hearing under article 168c § 3 of the code of criminal procedure, since there was a risk, given the nature of the reported offences, that r.k. on 3 may 2010 the arnsberg regional court opened the main proceedings against the applicant. the latter telling her to go to the home of the m. family. a towel, which she put on the back of her head, from where she was visibly bleeding. for some two hours on 6 august 2009 at the request of the public prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 6 above). n., the women’s shelter’s counsellor, testified that she had received a copy of the police report and had discussed the report and the events with r.k. he had not seen what had happened in the house and had, overall, not noticed much of the events that had occurred that weekend. s., a witness, said that he had been at a local sports meeting with another witness, ke., she had observed the applicant leaving his house and driving off. besides taking some of her belongings, she had given the letter to ra. had included the letter in the case file. in this regard, the regional court referred to r.k. had run into the street in panic that day, with a bleeding wound on the back of her head, and had subsequently sought refuge with the m. family until the police had arrived, while the applicant had been seen leaving the house and driving off following that (see paragraphs 24-27 above). on 29 june 2010 the applicant, represented by counsel, lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in tbilisi. he brought proceedings against his employer. the preparatory hearing was attended both by the applicant and his lawyer. he requested that the hearing be adjourned. the district court held the hearing on 28 january 2004 as planned. the applicant appeared and submitted that, as he was not a lawyer, he would be unable to argue his case in the absence of his representative. counsel for the opposing party objected to the request and asked the first-instance court to issue a default judgment against the applicant. in view of the above, and concluding that the applicant had been duly summoned to the hearing in accordance with articles 70 to 73 of the ccp, the judge issued, in accordance with article 229 § 1 of the ccp (see paragraph 20 below), a default judgment rejecting the applicant’s action without examining it or giving any reasons. the decision stated in its operative part that an application to set aside the judgment could be made to the same court within ten days. when he had appeared before the court, the applicant had stated that he objected to the examination of the case without his lawyer present and had refused to take part in the hearing. therefore, as the caution provided for in articles 70 to 78 had not been issued in the present case, the regional court held that there were grounds, under articles 233 and 241 of the ccp, for setting aside the decision of 19 march 2004. the applicant’s appeal was thus remitted to the district court for re-examination. the applicant’s former employer lodged an appeal on points of law against the appeal judgment. the supreme court also found that, according to the record of the hearing of 28 january 2004, the judge had warned the applicant that “in the event of a refusal to take part in the hearing, a decision [would] be given in absentia”. it therefore upheld the decision of 19 march 2004.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in köthel. in early 2006, x became pregnant and disclosed this to the applicant. in october 2006, she gave birth to a girl. shortly after, the relationship with the applicant ended. x and her husband, the girl’s legal father, refused the applicant’s subsequent initiatives to have contact with the child. in addition, he made a sworn declaration that he had had sexual intercourse with x around the time of conception. on 9 may 2011 the family court dismissed the applicant’s request. on 1 december 2011, the court of appeal orally heard the applicant and the child’s legal father. at the end of the hearing it informed the parties that it considered contact with the applicant not to be in the child’s best interest for the time being and suggested that the applicant withdraw his appeal. the child’s guardian ad litem opposed this. the child was living in a well-organised and emotionally stable family unit consisting of a father, a mother and other children. the court of appeal pointed out that it was aware that, in view of the importance of the child’s well-being, it could be a long time before the preliminary question of paternity could be clarified and years before contact rights could be granted. such claim cannot be based on article 1686, 1st sentence, of the civil code because the applicant is not, as required by this provision, the child’s legal father. it enquired of the applicant whether, under these circumstances, he would withdraw his constitutional complaint. on 13 august 2013 the applicant replied that he would maintain his complaint because, even under the new law, he would not have obtained a more favourable decision.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in cadiz. the applicant and the public prosecutor lodged appeals. thereafter, the applicant moved to spain to work as a chef in a hotel and communicated his new address to the court. on 24 april 2009 the hamburg regional court withdrew the authorisation of mr arif to act as defence counsel, while at the same time rejecting the application lodged by mr arif for the applicant to be released from the obligation to appear in person at the appeal hearing. this decision was served on the applicant in spain. he furthermore asked that documents from the case file – in particular the public prosecutor’s appeal – be sent to him. this proved impossible, as the lawyer’s fax machine had no receiving function. on 15 april 2010 the court of appeal upheld that decision. it considered that the applicant had been properly summoned to the appeal hearing because the requirements for service by public notification, as set out in article 40 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure, had been met. the summons to attend the hearing before the district court had been served on the applicant’s previous address in germany and he had lodged the appeal in question. it had thus been acceptable for the summons to be served by public notification. on 16 november 2010 the federal constitutional court declined to consider a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant, without providing reasons (no. the government requested that the court strike out the application in accordance with article 37 § 1 of the convention. furthermore, the compensation offered was insufficient. they acknowledged that the provision had, in practice, been construed narrowly.
the applicant was born in lithuania in 1980 and lives in ljubljana, slovenia. it had involved four men, while three others had assisted in its organisation. when asked whether i am ready to give my personal data, i state that i was born in lithuania and that my name is danas. described the robbery and the events leading up to it when questioned by the investigating judge. after running out of money, they had decided to rob the bank in question. on 8 april 2002 a new decision opening a judicial investigation against the seven accused was issued. the applicant gave a similar account of events, claiming that he had not been among those who had robbed the bank but had waited for their return in the woods. had given a detailed and incriminating description, while having legal assistance, that the applicant had been assisted by counsel who had been appointed for him and by an interpreter at his first appearance before the investigating judge, and that there was no indication that the applicant had not been informed when arrested of the reasons for his arrest in a language he had understood. he explained that he could not speak or understand russian very well, and in particular was not able to read decisions and other documents in russian owing to the different characters, and that he had thus been prevented from effectively defending himself. in the proceedings before the constitutional court, the kranj district court replied to the applicant’s allegations, submitting that he had at no time stated that he had trouble understanding russian. it annulled the kranj district court’s decision of 29 april 2003 (see paragraph 38 above) and remitted the applicant’s application for the protection of legality for fresh consideration. ...in accordance with section 8 of the criminal procedure act, a court should inform a suspect or accused of the right to use his own language. took part in certain meetings between the applicant and his counsel. the lawyer also assisted the applicant during his court appearances. ...(17) this directive should ensure that there is free and adequate linguistic assistance, allowing suspected or accused persons who do not speak or understand the language of the criminal proceedings fully to exercise their right of defence and safeguarding the fairness of the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in vác. he was awarded a disability pension on 6 may 1995. despite the appeal, the decision was implemented with immediate effect and the applicant received huf 1,996,104 (approximately eur 6,650) in arrears. however, in his view, this did not amount to a withdrawal of the request for a reference for a preliminary ruling. on 7 july 2010 the central hungary regional pensions board adopted a new decision in accordance with the instructions of the budapest labour court and increased the applicant’s monthly pension to huf 139,545 (approximately eur 465) with effect from 1 may 2004. the appeals department of the national pensions administration (országos nyugdíjbiztosítási főigazgatóság jogorvoslati főosztály) conducted a repeated second-instance review and, in a decision dated 5 november 2011, amended the decision of 11 november 2010 (see paragraph 19 above). the relevant provisions of the code of civil procedure (act no. in the order, the court shall specify the question for which a preliminary ruling is requested and describe the circumstances of the case and the relevant domestic law inasmuch as it is necessary for answering the question referred to the [cjeu]. the order shall be notified to the [cjeu] and, for information, to the minister in charge of justice at the same time. (3)  no appeal lies against a court decision making a reference for a preliminary ruling or dismissing a request for a reference for a preliminary ruling.” bh 2016.12.342 the kúria held, in so far as relevant:“a petition for review may only be examined on the merits if[, in addition to a pure reference to the allegedly violated legal provision,] the petitioning party also describes the substance of the infringement, explains his or her legal opinion thereon and sets out the reasons supporting his or her argument.” however, the petition for review is an independent, extraordinary remedy[. given] its special nature, references to previous submissions are not accepted.” in such cases, the level of protection to be afforded by the constitutional court to the fundamental right should in no way be lower than the level of international protection afforded to the given right (typically by the european court of human rights in strasbourg)” ... based on this consideration, the constitutional court has reviewed the case-law of the [european] court [of human rights] on the right to a reasoned court decision, which it also finds applicable in interpreting the right enshrined in article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law. 26/2015, article 155/a (2) of the code of civil procedure (see paragraph 28 above) was amended as of 4 december 2015 with the following additional wording:“if the court dismisses a request for a reference for a preliminary ruling, it shall formulate its decision in the form of an order (végzés).
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in nova pazova. on 11 august 2005 the applicant applied to the stara pazova municipal court for sole custody of the children. that decision became final on 10 november 2011. on 18 january 2006, at the applicant’s request, the stara pazova municipal court ordered enforcement of the interim contact order (see paragraph 11 above) by a court bailiff. the enforcement order was upheld by the district court on 17 march 2006. informed the bailiff that the children were on a school trip. said that the applicant had yelled at her before and that once, when they had been in a coffee bar together, he had snatched her mobile phone from her hand. in its opinion of 30 march 2009 the social care centre reported that the relationship difficulties between the applicant and m.k. was unable to give support to her children in order to overcome the difficulties in maintaining contact with their father. she claimed that she had not forbidden the children from having contact with him, but was unable to influence her daughter’s opinion. who had been displaying signs of an anxiety attack. ’s physical and mental health and development. from seeing his father, but feared for his health. informed the social care centre that m.g. of charges of non-compliance with the interim contact order concerning the incident of 20 june 2011 (see paragraph 40 above).
the applicants are:(1) mr ibragim alikhanov, who was born in 1930,(2) ms muslimat alikhanova, who was born in 1936 and(3) ms tamara alikhanova, who was born in 1976. 55826, which had been opened into the abduction of amirkhan alikhanov, the government furnished its contents, which ran to 266 pages. on 1 february 2005 the investigators questioned the neighbourhood police officer, mr r.sh., had gone to that village, where in a shed next to the cemetery they had found various pieces of clothing. among them he had identified and collected those of his brother, amirkhan alikhanov. on 18 may 2005 the investigators questioned a.a., a police officer, who stated that he worked for the organised crime unit in makhachkala. who had told him about the abduction and had asked him – in return for money – to assist them in their search for their relative, mr alikhanov. who stated that her findings, as stated in the forensic report (see paragraph 53 below), had not with absolute certainty established that the blood on the clothes found in zamay-yurt had been related to that of the first applicant; their facilities had been limited in their capacity to establish such conclusions. therefore, there are sufficient grounds to believe that both crimes were committed by the same group of persons ... .” on 11 april 2005 the investigators ordered an expert examination of the clothes found by mr a. in zamay-yurt, and on 27 april 2005 they ordered their forensic expert examination (see paragraph 54 below). on 30 may 2005 the traffic police unit of the dagestan ministry of the interior replied to a request for information from the investigators dated 26 april 2005 and provided them with a list of eight service vehicles used by the traffic police officers in december 2004. on 28 december 2005 the chechnya prosecutor’s office informed the applicants that on 17 july 2005 the criminal case file concerning the discovery of amirkhan alikhanov’s body had been transferred to the military prosecutor’s office of the united group alignment (the uga). in the course of the proceedings, the investigators received information concerning mr alikhanov’s murder and the finding of his body among six corpses found on 28 january 2005 on the outskirts of zamay-yurt in the nozhay-yurt district in chechnya. on 8 june 2009 the investigation of the criminal case was resumed.
the applicants were born in 1969 and 1964 respectively and live in sandnes, norway. the second applicant went to sweden in the 1980s and met the first applicant in 1993. the parents’ lack of ability to understand their children’s needs, as well as the information about abuse, meant that it was necessary to take the children into public care to ensure that they received proper care. the representative emphasised the children’s need to see their parents but referred to the extensive material in the case-file which showed that the children had special needs. moreover, the representative found it questionable whether the applicants would agree to voluntary care, since they had refused to cooperate with the social council on previous occasions. the applicants appealed against the decision to the administrative court. moreover, they were actively involved in an adhd association and were attending courses to understand the condition better and be able to help a. with assistance from the norwegian authorities and the school, they could take care of a and meet all of his needs. the applicants further questioned whether the social council really had a clear plan for how, in due time, to reunite them with their children and contested the council’s view that they opposed the plan for visits with the children. moreover, a repeatedly spoke about how he had been beaten by the second applicant and he had had to be reassured before the meeting with the first applicant that he would return to the foster home after the meeting. consequently, on 16 october 2009, the social council issued a new decision denying the applicants any contact rights. on 22 september 2010 the social council decided that the first applicant should be allowed to meet the children on one occasion during the autumn of 2010 while the second applicant should not be allowed to meet them. in this respect, he underlined that he had never been aggressive or violent toward his children. on 27 september 2011, after an oral hearing, the administrative court rejected the appeal. upon further appeal by the applicants, the administrative court of appeal upheld the lower court’s judgment on 23 april 2014. moreover, the first applicant had been unable to take an active part and be available to her children during their meetings.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in steiermark in austria. the press release mentioned, in particular, that the newspaper in question had published a large amount of material in the context of the election campaign, and that it was in opposition to the current authorities of the komi republic, as it actively supported a well-known local politician who had a long-standing conflict with those authorities. on the same day, the president of memorial, mr i.s., published the text of that press release on his blog at livejournal.com. it feels like they are an instrument of punishment of the recalcitrant rather than being a service to society. the applicant read the text of the press release and the comments, including the one left by mr t. in the applicant’s words, this latter comment made a particularly strong impression on him. only lowbrows and hoodlums – the dumbest and least educated representatives of the animal world. on the same day the applicant, who had found out the reasons for the criminal case against him, removed his comment. in his comment the applicant had expressed his disagreement with mr t., who, in the applicant’s view, had confused those two notions. with whom he had shared his thoughts regarding the police operation of 14 february 2007, and that he had had no intention of making it public, let alone calling for any actions against the police. the town court called and examined a large number of witnesses. pointed out that “the bloggers’ community”, including his own acquaintances, had been indignant at the applicant’s comment which they had considered to be too strongly-worded; however, in that witness’s view, the applicant had merely expressed his opinion and had started a public discussion on an important issue. at the request of the parties, the first-instance court ordered that a comprehensive socio-humanities forensic expert examination of the impugned text be carried out by a commission of experts. the expert report of 19 june 2008, reflecting the results of that examination, stated, in particular, that the applicant had targeted police officers as a “social group” and that his comment had “aimed at inciting hatred and enmity” towards this group and had “called for their physical extermination”. the applicant appealed against the conviction.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in rotterdam. the applicant was charged with having, with an accomplice called v., robbed three supermarkets and with having, with two accomplices, mugged someone in the street outside a discotheque. the applicant was tried before the rotterdam regional court (rechtbank). not being suspected of having taken part in the street mugging, v. could not refuse to give evidence about it; he made a statement to the effect that he had not personally witnessed the robbery but had heard from bystanders that it had been committed by a group that did not include the applicant. v. was subsequently charged with perjury (meineed). on 30 august 2006 the regional court gave judgment convicting the applicant of all four crimes. it sentenced him to four years’ imprisonment and ordered the execution of a suspended two-week sentence of juvenile detention (jeugddetentie) imposed on a previous occasion when the applicant was still a minor. v. was again summoned as a witness by the defence. the court of appeal gave judgment on 4 march 2008 convicting the applicant of all four charges. it sentenced the applicant to six years’ imprisonment and, as the regional court had done, ordered the execution of the two-week suspended sentence of juvenile detention. the evidence on which the conviction of the fourth charge was based may be summarised as follows:(a) the supermarket manager’s report to the police that his supermarket had been robbed;(b) a statement made to the police by a cashier who had been forced at gunpoint to open her cash register, from which one of the robbers had snatched money and other goods;(c) v.’s confession to the police, in which the applicant was named as co-perpetrator. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law (cassatie) with the supreme court (hoge raad). as relevant to the case before the court, he complained under article 6 § 3 (d) of the convention of the use made by the court of appeal of v.’s statements to the police to ground his convictions even though v. had refused to answer the questions of the defence under cross-examination. on 5 january 2010 the supreme court gave judgment dismissing the applicant’s appeal on points of law. referring to its own case-law (its judgment of 6 june 2006, ecli:nl:hr:2006:av1633, netherlands law reports (nederlandse jurisprudentie, “nj”) 2006, no.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in liski, voronezh region. in 2009 the applicant started to run a business as an “individual entrepreneur” (индивидуальный предприниматель). the applicant’s business was subject to an inspection in july 2014. it appears that the applicant was aware that this inspection took place. on 12 august 2014 the court adopted a decision to initiate a case and to examine it by way of a summary procedure. the government has provided the court with a dispatch card showing that the notification was dispatched on 14 october 2014 to the applicant’s registered residence address and then returned to the court on 24 october 2014 with a note listing reasons for return with “expiry of the retention period” being checked. the government has also submitted a dispatch card showing that the notification was delivered to the liski unit on 19 november 2014. on 10 december 2014 the court heard the case and acquitted the applicant. neither the applicant nor his representative was present, and they lodged no submissions. the court has not been provided with any relevant dispatch card or postal slip. according to the government, the correspondence enclosing this decision was dispatched to the applicant by registered mail but was then returned to the court as not claimed within the retention period. this decision became final and enforceable on the same date. the appeal court could have required the representative to hand over a notification to the applicant in person. it is noted, however, that the statement of cassation appeal in respect of the appeal decision of 12 march 2015 was dispatched to the first-instance court on 8 july 2015 – that is to say after the expiry of the relevant period ...the case file contains no indisputable proof that the impugned court decision was in a timely manner dispatched to and received by [the applicant]. in particular as regards the matter of notification, it considered that the decision to start proceedings had been dispatched to the applicant but that he had avoided being served with judicial notifications; however, he had been able to continue to keep himself informed, via the court’s website, of the appeal proceedings after the first-instance judgment against him (see the “relevant domestic law and practice” section below).
the first applicant is one of the founders and the chief executive officer of the second applicant, a non-profit organisation. counsel for the second applicant submitted the following documents to the koptevskiy district court:-  a letter from the president of the central spiritual board of muslims of russia, stating that said nursi’s texts could not be qualified as extremist or fanatical. they did not contain any calls for violence, ethnic or religious hatred or for overthrowing governments. he asked the court to appoint persons with expertise in religious issues. the printed texts submitted for expert review contain propaganda about the superiority or inferiority of citizens based on their attitude to religion (believers or non-believers) and contain statements substantiating and justifying the necessity of disseminating such ideas and world-views. on 28 april 2007 the koptevskiy district court ordered an additional expert opinion by the same experts. two of the court-appointed experts were also questioned and confirmed their findings. they also contain statements substantiating and justifying the necessity of disseminating such ideas and world-views. he relied on previous decisions by the russian courts, which had declared other works from the risale-i nur collection extremist, and on a report of 24 december 2008 by specialists from the astafyev krasnoyarsk state pedagogical university. they had made the following finding:“the book ‘the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter’ by said nursi submitted for expert review is ideological literature addressed to a wide audience. on 28 april 2010 the court-appointed experts delivered their joint report, finding as follows:“the book ‘the tenth word: the resurrection and the hereafter’ from the risale-i nur collection by bediüzzaman said nursi, 2005 edition, is a popular exposition of the qur’an. the author’s objective is to ‘show that the truths of islam are reasonable, solid and interrelated’, which is a typical objective of any theologian ...the verbal means used in the book do not go beyond value judgments used in any religious literature ...under a normal perception of the text the book does not contain anything that could have a possible incentive influence on the human consciousness, will, socio‑psychological characteristics or conduct. the structure of the book is such that in the subsequent text the idea of the necessity to fight, of being ready for a fight, is, on the one hand, attenuated as it is not expressed directly; on the other hand, having been already stated earlier, it may be reinforced in the readers’ minds because the text inspires the idea that non-believers commit a crime consisting in the very fact of not believing and which, according to the text under review, does not merit forgiveness. on the one hand, the text is addressed to non-believers who do not have a developed ability to think critically. in addition, the reader is encouraged to take responsibility for his parents; to save them he must accept the advocated islamic religious creed.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in bílovice nad svitavou (the czech republic). the date on which the applicant subsequently became a party to the proceedings is not specified. by a decision of the land office of 17 may 1999, the proceedings in respect of another part of the property ended. however, on 23 may 2003 the relevant part of the proceedings was reopened. on 11 september 2015 the land office dismissed part of what was left of the applicant’s claim. on 19 october 2015 the land office stayed the examination of the remainder of the claim, inviting a number of institutions to submit relevant documentation, which they did by the end of 2015. it also noted that the land office had maintained active correspondence with the applicant and had therefore not caused any undue delays. on 12 november 2013, in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant, the bratislava ii district office of the public prosecution service (“the pps”) informed him that the pps had reprimanded the land office for unjustified delays in the restitution proceedings. on 21 august 2014 the applicant lodged a fresh action with the regional court under article 250t § 1 of the ccp, arguing that the land office had failed to abide by the order of 11 april 2013. on 4 july 2012 the applicant lodged two constitutional complaints. on 23 august 2012 the constitutional court rejected that complaint for lack of jurisdiction to examine it. accordingly, as the administrative proceedings were still pending, the applicant should have lodged a fresh complaint about the alleged inactivity of the land office with the regional court. the second complaint was directed against the regional court. the applicant contested, inter alia, the fairness of the proceedings leading to its decision of 19 april 2012 (see paragraph 15 above). accordingly, it quashed the regional court’s decision of 19 april 2012 and remitted the applicant’s action of 20 december 2011 to the regional court for fresh examination.
on 23 december 2004 the applicants and 126 others lodged a claim with the komárno land office, an authority that is now part of the komárno district office (“the land office”), for restitution of land under the restoration of land ownership act (law no. on 27 may 2010 the land office dismissed the claim on the grounds that all the claimants lacked standing to bring it. on 21 november 2011 the nitra regional court upheld that decision following an administrative-law appeal by the claimants, lodged on their behalf by four individuals. the proceedings before the regional court had been conducted merely in the presence of the designated representatives and the court had failed to summon the claimants in person and to have its judgment served on them. it had thereby breached the claimants’ right of access to a court. in those proceedings, the court invited the claimants to clarify issues concerning their legal representation with a view to ensuring that they would be represented by a common representative. in a decision of 4 december 2014 the regional court issued several rulings. on 25 may 2016 the supreme court upheld the decision of 4 december 2014 following an appeal lodged by the claimants. the proceedings are still pending before the regional court. meanwhile, on 21 january 2015 the constitutional court had rejected a complaint lodged by the applicants about the length of the proceedings in their claim, in so far as they had taken place before the land office and the regional court. having split the complaint into those two segments, the constitutional court rejected the complaint concerning the administrative proceedings on the grounds of non-exhaustion of ordinary remedies. in “relevant domestic law and practice” below). as regards the judicial-review proceedings, the constitutional court dismissed the complaint as manifestly ill-founded. it noted that those proceedings as a whole had lasted some four and a half years. however, the case had been pending on appeal before the supreme court for about two years of that period.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in ploiești. at the relevant time, he was married to i.m.u. and they had a son together, born in 2006. filed for divorce and custody of the child. on 19 october 2012 she left the family home and took the child with her. they moved in with her parents and grandmother. on 2 november 2012 the applicant lodged an application for an interim injunction (ordonanţă preşedenţială), seeking to be granted sole or shared custody of the child during the divorce proceedings, or alternatively the right to visit the child during those proceedings according to a detailed schedule that he submitted to the court. the court noted that in any case the law did not provide for the possibility to have visiting rights established during divorce proceedings. the court delivered the final decision in the case on 27 may 2013. and her family denied him any further contact with his son. on 30 october 2013 the applicant added a copy of the district court’s ruling of 8 january 2013 (see paragraph 8 above) to the case file. after several postponements that were due mainly to the parties’ requests to be allowed to submit additional evidence, on 22 january 2014 the ploieşti district court gave its judgment on the divorce proceedings, ruling that the child’s sole residence would be with his mother. on 4 march 2014 the judgment was served on the applicant at his address; on 28 march 2014 he lodged an appeal. also lodged an appeal against the district court’s judgment. after several postponements to the proceedings, on 2 november 2016 the bucharest court of appeal delivered the final decision in the case.
the applicant was born in 1967 and was detained at the tekirdağ f‑type prison when the application was lodged. on 9 april 2003 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of being a member of a terrorist organisation. on 13 april 2003 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul state security court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, and the state of evidence. on 23 july 2003 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul state security court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation, and attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the republic of turkey by force. the criminal proceedings against the applicant commenced. on 10 november 2008 the court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 10 november 2008 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against this decision. on 27 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 4 may 2011 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant and sentenced him to life imprisonment. on 25 september 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
are companies specialising in air transportation. on 1 june 2007 the casa issued an order banning all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007. between 4 and 8 june 2007, all moldovan aviation companies were subjected to a check by the european union safety committee. according to the report, the casa had undertaken to remedy the situation within three months. in a letter addressed to the casa by the european commission on 8 june 2007, the former was asked to require all the companies concerned to present their response to the findings in the report by 22 june 2007 at the latest. on 14 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant companies the eu safety committee’s report and informed them that they had until 22 june 2007 to present their comments. the corresponding plan was sent by the applicant companies to the casa on 21 june 2007. also on 18 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant companies aviation instruction no. on 21 june 2007 the casa issued order no. 102/gen withdrawing the applicant companies’ aocs, and thereby terminating their activity. the casa did not specify which irregularities it referred to. on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant companies’ action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw the applicant companies’ aocs because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found in respect of the first applicant company and three other companies, which are not applicants in the present case, and because those companies had failed to remedy those irregularities. the court of appeal did not indicate the irregularities to which it referred. the court did not give an answer to the applicants’ argument concerning the casa’s failure to observe the provisions of section 23 the law on civil aviation and those of the regulations in the field of civil aviation. the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice, reiterating inter alia their position concerning the unlawfulness of the challenged decision.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in aydın. this periodical, which was sold legally, was supportive of leftist ideas. however, he denied any affiliation with the illegal organisation. following his questioning, the applicant was released. on 6 september 2002 the public prosecutor at the i̇zmir state security court lodged a bill of indictment against the applicant together with nine other co-accused. on 24 october 2002, at the first hearing in the case, the applicant, who was represented by a lawyer, denied the charges against him. he maintained that he had not been involved in any illegal activity. he reiterated his previous defence submissions. 3713 as then in force and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment and a fine. having regard, inter alia, to the statements of the applicant as well as of the other co-accused, the “written evidence” and the content of the case file as a whole, the trial court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation by allowing the other co-accused, namely mehmet desde, e.y. to stay in his hotel without registering them in his hotel’s guestbook and by lending his car to those people. on 13 december 2004 the applicant appealed. the public prosecutor before the i̇zmir assize court submitted his opinion on the merits of the case and requested the acquittal of the applicant and his co-accused on the grounds that the organisation which they had allegedly founded did not correspond to the definition of a terrorist organisation under section 7 (1) of law no. again, it listed the periodicals found in the applicant’s possession as evidence in the “written evidence” part of its judgment. on 5 october 2006 the principal public prosecutor at the court of cassation lodged a written opinion with the ninth division of the court of cassation in which he submitted, inter alia, that the objections of the lawyers concerning the use of police statements to convict the co-defendants should be rejected as irrelevant and unsubstantiated.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in chișinău. on 24 august 2011 the applicant was taken into police custody on charges of murder and unauthorized possession of a firearm. he was remanded in custody by the centru district court on 28 august 2011 and his detention was subsequently extended every thirty days until 21 january 2012 on the grounds that given the seriousness of the charges against him, he might abscond, re-offend and interfere with the investigation. the applicant did not appeal against those decisions. by decisions of 23 april, 20 june and 25 july 2013 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the appeals. on 28 september 2011 the applicant was transferred to prison no. 13 in chișinău where he was detained until 4 december 2014. according to the applicant, he was detained in cells with poor lighting, damp walls, and accommodating six inmates in an area of 6 square metres. during his detention the applicant did not receive any bedding or clothing. certain inmates were diagnosed with tuberculosis or hiv and had bleeding wounds. he was allowed to walk outside the cell only one hour per day. without a functional ventilation system, in summer the air indoors was hot, humid and smelly which made it difficult to breathe. in cold weather the heating was not turned on and the temperature in the cells was extremely low. the squat toilet was not separated from the rest of the cell. the prison laundry was not operational and the applicant was unable to wash his clothes.
the applicant was born in 1983 and at the time of lodging his application he was serving his prison sentence in bolu f-type prison. on 10 december 2007 the applicant wrote a letter to a member of parliament, in which he had praised the imprisoned leader of the pkk, abdullah öcalan by using “kürt halk önderi”, meaning the leader of kurdish people. pursuant to the regulations on the administration of penitentiary institutions and the execution of sentences, the applicant was found guilty of breaching prison order by the kocaeli f- type prison disciplinary board (referred hereafter as “the board”) and on 24 december 2007 the applicant was sentenced to 13 days’ solitary confinement, on account of his statements in the above mentioned letter. on 17 january 2008 the kocaeli enforcement judge rejected the applicant’s objection. on 14 february 2008 the kocaeli assize court upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in glodeni. at the time of the events giving rise to the present application he was a pensioner who received an amount equivalent to some fifty-eight euros (eur) per month. on 5 may 2014 the minister of social protection organised a meeting with the inhabitants of the applicant’s town. the applicant was also present and after the meeting he asked the minister a question about the method of calculation of his pension. the answer infuriated the applicant and he cursed and slapped the minister in the face. on the same day, following the minister’s complaint, criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant on charges of hooliganism. on 12 may 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered the applicant’s psychiatric examination in order to determine whether he was fit to plead in the criminal proceedings. on 29 may 2014 a commission of psychiatrists speculated that the applicant might suffer from either dementia or amnesia. however, they did not reach a final conclusion and recommended the conduct of an in-patient psychiatric examination. the applicant challenged the above decision but without success. on 18 september 2014 the applicant was arrested by a group of five police officers and taken to the chișinău psychiatric hospital. upon arrival, the applicant was asked to sign several pre-printed documents, the meaning of which was that he was giving his formal consent to hospitalisation and treatment. he signed them, but wrote on one of them that he did not consent to being subjected to a psychiatric examination (nu sunt de acord cu expertiza). on 20 september 2014 the applicant was visited by his son in hospital. after the visit the son employed a lawyer who started to take measures in order to have the applicant released.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in karlovac. a criminal complaint was lodged against the applicant on charges of substance abuse. the officers had arrived in a van in the car park of a supermarket in biograd na moru. had grabbed him by his hands but he had continued to resist them. was one of the officers who had stayed in the van when the two other officers had attempted to carry out identity check on the applicant and v.p. did not describe the use of force against the applicant by the two other officers, but did state that the allegations in the applicant’s criminal complaints were false. on 28 march 2013 the chief of the national police asked the chief of the zadar police to check the applicant’s allegations from the standpoint of the police and to cooperate with the state attorney’s office. an officer from the professional conduct department of the zadar police interviewed officer m.k., see paragraph 16 above) wrote a report on the force used against the applicant. on 12 november 2013 the deputy state attorney interviewed officers b.m. since there had been some customers in the supermarket the officers had not resorted to handcuffing the applicant but had instead taken the applicant by the arm and escorted him towards the exit. had caught up with him and applied a leg sweep technique. admitted that in responding to the applicant’s fierce resistance he might have hit him once or twice in order to prevent him from fleeing. on 26 november 2013 the state attorney’s office dismissed the complaint on the basis of statements taken from the police officers involved as well as from officers, the applicant’s allegations and the medical documentation enclosed. on 10 december 2013 the applicant asked for an investigation into the matter.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in yerevan. were arrested by the georgian law-enforcement authorities in tbilisi when they tried to sell 15 g of enriched uranium which they had transported from armenia by train on the same day. had received the radioactive substance from the applicant. on 22 april 2010 the national security service instituted criminal proceedings in relation to the matter. had smuggled the radioactive substance to tbilisi, where they had been arrested. whom he had known for about ten years, had owed him money for a long time. at the beginning of march 2010 he and s.t. since the applicant had had no means to travel, they had transferred money to him. had been in contact with the applicant, who had agreed to come to armenia and give him uranium. on 6 may 2011 the applicant’s representative allowed the regional court to continue with the examination of the case even if s.t. the conductor of the train who had been questioned during the investigation – as a witness, on the grounds that some of his statements were in contradiction with the statements of s.t. the trial court rejected that application, considering it unfounded. ’s daughter respectively; the results of forensic examinations carried out in georgia and armenia confirming that the substance discovered contained enriched uranium; the evidence of telephone correspondence between the applicant and h.o.; and the existence of exit and entry stamps in the applicant’s passport proving that he had arrived in yerevan from moscow on 10 march 2010. could not be examined and the refusal to examine witness s.g.
a was born in 2011 and is the daughter of the applicant and y. both the mother and father had just turned 19 when the child was born. it took account of how her father had prevented her from going to school, which meant that she still could not read or write and did not have the necessary knowledge for day-to-day life. the background to this move was that the emergency foster mother had discovered a car following her after a contact session at the child welfare centre two days before, on 24 september. she had recently been moved again and had a particular need for calm and stability. the parties attended with counsel and gave evidence. in addition, the applicant’s father could not in any way be expected to be a serious care person for a. viewed in connection with the contact sessions that had taken place, which had led to the child having negative reactions and challenged the calm and stability in the foster home, this supported the conclusion that the court should not allow any contact. the child had already been a victim of neglect when living with the applicant and the applicant’s parents and there were reasons to fear that she would again be subject to neglect if someone in the applicant’s extended family (storfamilie) kidnapped her. the high court also referred to the fact that a psychologist at an outpatient clinic, k.g.f., who had been appointed as expert in the proceedings between the parents concerning custody and parental authority (see paragraph 13 above) had already in 2012 recommended that none of the parents should have contact with a, primarily because of the abduction risk. the problems associated with the contact sessions had to be seen in view of the fact that a was a vulnerable child. in addition, it followed from articles 5(1), 10(1) and 14(1) of the council of europe’s framework convention for the protection of national minorities of 1 february 1995 (see paragraph 72 below) that the state had a duty to promote the conditions necessary for persons belonging to national minorities to maintain and develop their culture, allow the minority to learn their minority language and use it freely and without interference. the applicant’s father had been serving a prison sentence during this entire period, and the foster parents’ identity and address were not known to the applicant’s family. he had raised concerns before the board that the child might be kidnapped. according to the foster parents, the contact sessions had caused her sleep and digestive problems. as to the appellants’ attack on the substance of the high court’s judgment, the committee found that neither the decision’s significance beyond the scope of the current case nor any other circumstances indicated that the case should be heard by the supreme court.
the applicants, ms bozhana boyanova uzunova and mr ferad ismail seid, were born in 1978 and 1955 respectively, and live in kardzhali. the applicants co-owned a plot of land of 15,276 square metres near the town of kapitan andreevo. the applicants brought judicial review proceedings in respect of the expropriation decision before the supreme administrative court. in a final judgment of 3 april 2009 that court declared the decision null and void as it had failed to specify the actual owners of the plot to whom compensation was due, and referred the case back to the administrative authorities. in a final judgment of 28 december 2010 the supreme administrative court found that compensation was due to the applicants as owners of the plot at issue and that it had to be increased to bgn 59,817 (the equivalent of eur 30,577), in accordance with the conclusions of an expert report obtained in the course of the proceedings. the court also awarded the applicants bgn 600 in costs, to be paid by the council of ministers. on 13 january 2011 the applicants invited the road infrastructure agency to pay the compensation due to them. on 5 july 2011 the council of ministers issued a new decision for expropriation, in accordance with which 5,215 square metres of the applicants’ plot were to be expropriated against compensation in the amount of bgn 1,794 (the equivalent of eur 917). the applicants brought judicial review proceedings in respect of this decision. they subsequently wrote to the agency again on 15 october 2012, to the council of ministers on 14 october 2013 submitting also a writ of enforcement in respect of the sum due, and to the regional governor on 21 february 2014. in the meantime, on 22 november 2013 the applicants brought proceedings before the sofia administrative court in relation to the lack of enforcement of the final judicial decision of 28 december 2010. in particular, they claimed they had incurred pecuniary damage as a result of the lack of enforcement; they also claimed interest on the amount determined in the said judgment for the period of its non-enforcement. on 18 december 2013 the court dismissed their claim as inadmissible. the applicants appealed before the supreme administrative court, alleging a breach of article 203 of the 2006 code and a breach of section 1(1) of the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (the “smrda”), and challenging the lower court’s decision as being unreasoned. in a final decision of 13 february 2014, the supreme administrative court confirmed the lower court’s decision.
the applicant was born in 1939 and lives in sofia. on an unspecified date towards the end of the 1980s or the beginning of the 1990s the state took a decision to create an opencast coalmine near the village. in the years which followed the mine approached the house, due to its gradual enlargement. coal was extracted from it by means of detonations, which, according to the applicant, shook the house on a daily basis. at the time, the mine was managed by a company which was wholly state-owned. in 2001 the applicant brought a tort action against the company operating the mine, seeking compensation for the damage caused to his property. the regional court appointed an expert, who established that the house had been constructed between 1948 and 1950, when there had been no requirements as to seismic resistance. at the time of drawing up the expert report the house was uninhabitable, as its walls were bent and cracked, with the cracks sometimes reaching 20-35 cm in width. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. after the case was remitted, the court of appeal commissioned a new expert report. nevertheless, it was clear that the house had been well inside the “sanitation zone” around the mine. the expert additionally noted that the detonations had been carried out by qualified workers, in accordance with the mine’s internal rules. in a judgment of 2 april 2007 the court of appeal once again upheld the regional court’s judgment of 27 june 2003, dismissing the applicant’s claim. it has not been shown in the case that the claimant’s building, constructed in the 1950s, has been damaged precisely because of the detonation works at the mine. it pointed out in particular that the expert report presented to the court of appeal (see paragraph 18 above) had only established that the applicant’s property had been situated within the “sanitation zone” around the mine, but “was insufficient to prove the existence of a causal link between the damage ... and the unlawful behaviour of employees of the respondent company”.
the first and third applicants were born in 1941, the second applicant was born in 1974, and the fourth applicant was born in 1967. the first, second and third applicants live in kazanlak and the fourth applicant lives in sofia. ms maria kopankova and her grandson, the fourth applicant (son of the first applicant) co-owned a house with a garden in kazanlak. after the expropriation the municipal authorities opened a blocked housing savings account with the state savings bank in the name of ms maria kopankova and the fourth applicant and transferred to it 13,420 old bulgarian levs (bgl) – the equivalent of the expropriated property’s value as assessed at the time. in 1989 ms maria kopankova and the applicants were moved out of the expropriated property and the house was pulled down. however, the site was soon after that abandoned. throughout the years that followed ms maria kopankova and the applicants petitioned on many occasions the municipal authorities to provide them with the compensation due, but to no avail. the latter passed away in 2011 and was succeeded by the second and third applicants. the stara zagora administrative court (hereinafter “the administrative court”) gave a judgment on 27 may 2010. it found, firstly, that the fourth applicant and ms maria kopankova, and subsequently her heirs, had not received the compensation due to them, namely two flats. the judgment above was not appealed against and became final. in 2011 the applicants brought a tort action against the kazanlak municipality under section 1 of the state and municipalities responsibility for damage act (see paragraph 23 below). they claimed the value of the house and of other objects (such as trees, the pavement and outbuildings) which had stood on the plot of land and had been destroyed, but for which they had never received any compensation. the applicants also made claims in respect of non-pecuniary damage. these conclusions were upheld in a final decision of 20 april 2012 of the supreme administrative court, which added that since the expropriation of the applicants’ property had been quashed and the expropriation proceedings completed, the municipality could not be liable for any damage stemming from these proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in silistra. between july 2006 and august 2007, the applicant turned to several state institutions, including regional branches of the hygiene and epidemiological inspectorate, the public health directorate at the ministry for health, the regional building inspectorate, the mayor of silistra and the prosecution service. he did so in a brief one-paragraph letter in reply to a complaint made by the applicant on 31 july 2006. in particular, two individuals who had not shown any credentials had turned up and measured the noise with a machine which had not reacted to sudden high-pitched noises but was set up to measure only background noise. furthermore, when the applicant had invited the inspectors to also measure the purity of the air, one of them had opened the window, sniffed the air and stated that it was not that bad and that, in all likelihood, it would turn out to be within the relevant norms when measured. on 30 august 2006, apparently in reply to the applicant’s letter of complaint of 31 july 2006, the head of the public health agency informed the applicant that: the chemical agents identified at the work stations at the printing company in question were within the limits listed in regulation no. 6 of 2006; and that instructions had been issued to the owner of the printing company to ensure that the noise levels produced by his business were brought within the legal limits. on 5 october 2006 a representative of the ministry for health wrote to the applicant informing him that staff from the public health agency had carried out two checks at the printing company; neither the dates of those checks, nor any further details about them were mentioned. on 27 october 2006 the applicant and his three neighbours wrote to the ministry for health, expressing their dissatisfaction with the reply they had received on 5 october 2006. the applicant and his neighbours further pointed out that, according to regulation no. the authors of the letter then wondered whether they as well as the people living in the immediate vicinity of the printing house should also have been taking such antidotes. like the staff at the printing company, the applicant and his neighbours suffered frequently from headaches, their washing turned grey whenever it was hung to dry and the noise produced by the machines when operating was unbearable. brought defamation proceedings against the applicant under article 147 of the criminal code 1968. while officials from the ministry of health had indeed established that the noise emitted by the printing business had been beyond the authorised limits, the authorities had instructed its owner to bring it within the relevant norms and had given him a deadline, with which he had complied. that amounted to defamation, which was in breach of the law and had to be sanctioned.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in zagreb. on 28 april 2008 the daily newspaper b. published an article under the headline “mob lawyer joins the supervisory board”, describing the applicant as an extortionist. on 27 may 2008 the applicant’s representative asked the publisher to publish a correction of that information. the publisher neither replied nor published a correction of the disputed information. on 9 july 2008, after the expiry of the deadline envisaged in the relevant provisions of the media act (zakon o medijima) to publish a correction, the applicant brought a civil action against the publisher in the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), claiming non-pecuniary damage. on 10 july 2009 the publisher replied stating in particular that the applicant had failed to submit a power of attorney with his request. at a hearing held on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court heard evidence from the applicant who said that he had authorised his representative to act on his behalf vis-à-vis the publisher. on 31 january 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court, relying on sections 22(2) and 40(3) of the media act, declared the applicant’s claim inadmissible. the first-instance court held that the request for the publication of a correction of the disputed information had not been signed by a duly authorised person because the applicant had not proved that his representative had actually submitted a power of attorney with the request. and that it was not accompanied with a power of attorney, the [applicant] has not proved that he had properly requested the publication of a correction of the disputed information ... an action which is, pursuant to section 22(2) of the media act, a procedural requirement for bringing a civil action for non-pecuniary damage against the publisher ...” 11. on 19 november 2012 the šibenik county court (županijski sud u šibeniku) dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the first-instance decision. on 14 march 2013 the constitutional court declared a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant inadmissible on the grounds that there was “no constitutional issue” to be examined.
the first applicant company, b. tagliaferro & sons limited, is a company registered in malta in 1966 and is situated in valletta. 109 archbishop street, valletta (hereinafter “the properties”). 109 was valued at the equivalent of eur 93,000 in 1993 and eur 140,000 in 2012. another development application was submitted in 1996 and approved in the same year. in 2003 the applicant companies wrote to the col requesting him to pay compensation for the taking. the two applications were heard and determined concurrently by the domestic courts. it further found a violation of article 6 in so far as the applicant companies had not had access to court between 1993 and 2009, given that access to the land arbitration board (lab) was limited solely to the col. moreover, until 2009 the lab did not fulfil the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal given its composition according to the law as it stood before the 2009 amendments. the constitutional jurisdictions had already held (in previous domestic‑case law) that the lab did not fulfil the requirement of independence and impartiality because of the method of appointment of its technical members before the 2009 amendments. however, these violations persisted further, in so far as even after the declaration of 2009 and the col’s deposit in court of the offer made to the applicant companies, he had failed to notify the owners as required by law [article 9 (2) of the ordinance] with the consequence that proceedings had stagnated and no access to court by the applicant companies was possible as a result of his inaction. indeed, the authorities had slacked all throughout the process. thus, such a body did not fulfil the guarantees of independence and impartiality. in the specific circumstances, those failings could not be cured by the court of appeal, which was not in a position to interfere with the conclusions of the technical members of the board. in 2018 the applicant companies submitted that no use had yet been made of their property, the value of which was increasing in line with the value of property in general in malta. it was now being refurbished and modified for such purpose.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in albania. he was a member of parliament from 2013 until 20 october 2015. having regard to his parliamentary immunity, on 26 march 2015 parliament authorised the applicant’s arrest. as a result, on the same day the gpo ordered his arrest, which was carried out with immediate effect. the applicant had been charged with a number of offences. given his public office, his financial situation, the possibility that he could tamper with evidence, and information obtained from the belgian authorities about his alleged involvement in the commission of a crime in belgium, there was reasonable suspicion that he might flee. it appears from the case file that, according to a red notice issued by interpol in respect of the applicant, he was wanted for prosecution purposes. on 1 april 2015, relying on a criminal report filed by the high inspectorate for the declaration and audit of assets and the prevention of conflicts of interest, the prosecutor’s office initiated criminal proceedings against the applicant for laundering the proceeds from a criminal offence or activity and refusing to state or falsely stating what his possessions were in breach of articles 287 and 257/a of the cc. the arrest warrant referred to a letter from the tirana police directorate stating “the enforcement of the security measure of house arrest cannot be entirely guaranteed, on account of the geographical position of the applicant’s house, the large surface area of the house, the existence of more than two entry and exit gates, and the existence of numerous buildings constructed adjacent to and around the house”. stated that a risk of flight should not rest on assumptions, hypotheses, suppositions or second guesses. the case file did not contain evidence of any risk of flight. on 15 july 2015 the albanian gpo decided that it did not have the authority to examine a request by the applicant to attend the hearing of 19 october 2015 in belgium. on 26 april 2016 the tirana district court decided that the applicant should remain in detention. on 3 may 2016 the applicant challenged the tirana district court’s decision of 26 april 2016. the court has not been informed of any outcome in those proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in tbilisi. the persons concerned had the right to meet inmates in private and access any documentation except that which was classified as confidential. stated:“i am impelled to specify surnames and specific facts... mariam jishkariani, the president of non-governmental organisation [empathy] and a member of the [public] monitoring council [for penal institutions] has been ... grossly exceeding her powers and writing medical conclusions concerning specific persons, bypassing the commission [set up for that purpose]. the minister further noted that the director of the medical department was “the one who... [relied on] jishkariani’s illegal notes ... not signed by the members of the [medical] commission... to transfer the inmates [to the prison hospital].” the programme also featured the applicant’s brief comment, as recorded by a journalist, that the minister wanted to have “a monitoring council that [would] not take a peek inside a prison]” and “the prisons [were] in the same conditions ... as those under saddam hussein’s regime.” that field is very tainted with respect to prisons. it was revealed that there had been healthy people amongst those inmates. ... the money they took should either have been brought to me or taken by them. the inmates] who assaulted the personnel had been transferred to the prison hospital based on jishkariani’s medical report even though they are healthy. the report mentioned the applicant, in brief, and only with respect to one transfer. he was diagnosed with organic personal disorder with periodic episodes of decline. it reasoned that while a public debate existed on the matter, it was not of a political character for the purposes of that provision as the applicant was not a politician. on 22 june 2006 the tbilisi city court found against the applicant. thus [the minister] issued an order aimed at verification three days prior to making the public statement. the tbilisi city court concluded that the statements in question had been made as part of an important public discussion surrounding the management of medical facilities in the penal system.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. the applicant subsequently redesigned his online presence. only the website credits had been deleted. the photo underneath showed a pile of corpses in an unspecified third reich concentration camp. the caption below read:“abortion and euthanasia are crimes that no human law can presume to declare lawful” (abtreibung und euthanasie sind verbrechen, die für rechtmäßig zu erklären sich menschliches gesetz anmaßen kann)furthermore, under a link “abortions” on the austrian website a caricature-like drawing of a wolf as an executioner guillotining embryos was shown. diese „sumpfblüten” haben denselben genetischen code)accessible via the link “not for the fainthearted” were images purporting to show aborted foetuses and the words:“sixty years post-auschwitz: after ‘termination’, it’s off to the incinerator or the rubbish heap!” ( abtreibungsärzte sind von uns nicht als mörder bezeichnet worden und werden von uns nicht als mörder bezeichnet. aber: wir werden zu unserer meinung stehen: das vorsätzliche „zu tode bringen“ eines unschuldigen menschen ist mord. the list was accompanied by an invitation to pray for these doctors. he was of jewish faith and his family had suffered from the atrocities carried out during the national socialist era. on 9 february 2010, the karlsruhe regional court ordered the applicant to desist from using and/or allowing the use of the term “aggravated murder” on the german website or the austrian website to describe abortions performed by dr f., who was named on those websites. to pay dr f. compensation of 10,000 euros (eur). firstly it established that the statements at issue could be attributed to the applicant. moreover, the court took into account that the applicant had persistently made these or similar statements and had not been dissuaded by orders to desist issued against him, such as the decision of the karlsruhe court of appeal of 28 february 2007 (6 u 98/06) to which the website referred (see paragraph 11 above), or the inclusion of the website on the list of publications harmful to minors by the federal review board. and had given his consent, by means of a link, for it to be posted on the austrian website.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.) by a letter of 23 december 2004 dr s. requested that the applicant sign a declaration to cease and desist. we ask ourselves: is dr s. unprincipled and characterless?” ( wir fragen uns: ist dr s. stand- und charakterlos?) in ihrer nähe: rechtswidrige abtreibungen ... und sie schweigen zum mord an unseren kindern?) [ diese vorgeburtlichen kindstötungen haben mittlerweile ausmaße angenommen, welche an einen „neuen holocaust“ erinnern!) [ on 4 november 2005 the karlsruhe regional court granted the requested injunction and ordered the applicant to desist from asserting publicly, both in writing and orally, on the internet as well as on leaflets, that the plaintiff performed unlawful abortions in his medical practice. the court came to this conclusion based on the facts that the applicant had singled out dr s. by mentioning him by name and distributing the leaflets in the vicinity of his practice, that he had quoted the federal constitutional court’s judgment only in parts and had omitted the parts that stated that doctors had not been subject to criminal liability, that he had implied by defining aggravated murder that dr s. had committed this criminal offence and that he had associated dr s. with the holocaust. the applicant and dr s. appealed against the regional court’s decision. additionally dr s. expanded his action to include the second leaflet (see paragraph 9 above), which subsequently became the subject matter of the judgment of the karlsruhe court of appeal. it ordered the applicant to desist from asserting in public that dr s. performed unlawful abortions in his medical practice and asserting in direct connection to this that “aggravated murder is the intentional ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being”. since the applicant had not clarified that he had only been criticising abortions, which were according to the case-law of the federal constitutional court (see paragraph 17 below) unlawful but not subject to criminal liability, he had exceeded the limits of justifiable criticism. as to the claim for damages the court of appeal upheld the first‑instance judgment. it also did not grant leave to appeal on points of law.
the first applicant was born in 1937 and lives in sopot. on 10 april 2010 an aircraft of the polish air force was carrying a polish state delegation from warsaw to smolensk, russia, to attend a ceremony marking the 70th anniversary of the katyń massacre. those circumstances led to impact with an obstacle on the ground, resulting in the separation of part of the left wing with the aileron, and consequently to the loss of aircraft control and eventual ground impact.” according to the applicants, the parliamentary group was not an official investigative authority. both applicants were granted victim status in the investigation. the first applicant attended that meeting. the victims’ remains had subsequently been repatriated to poland and buried. in the course of its investigation, the warsaw regional military prosecutor’s office had started to have doubts about the diligence of the russian experts in identifying the victims and the injuries sustained by them. the applicants argued that the prosecutor had applied article 209 § 1 and article 210 of the ccp without any consideration for the relevant provisions of the constitution. in the light of that provision, everyone who considered that his or her private life had been violated by an act of the authorities had to have the opportunity to seek legal protection. viii kp 17/17) decided to refer a legal question to the constitutional court on the constitutionality of article 210 of the ccp in so far as that provision did not provide for the opportunity to lodge an interlocutory appeal against a prosecutor’s decision to exhume a body. the reasoning was limited to a brief reference to the ongoing investigation and the decision of 7 october 2016. on 19 april 2018 the second applicant’s lawyer informed the state prosecutor’s office that his client would not take part in the proposed meeting with the prosecutors because she opposed the exhumation. the exhumation of the remains of mr arkadiusz rybicki, the husband of the second applicant, was carried out on 14 may 2018. on 5 december 2016 the warsaw court of appeal dismissed an interlocutory appeal lodged by the applicants and upheld the regional court’s findings.
the applicant was born in 1962 and at the time of the events lived in saray, absheron region. on 13 may 2014 the prosecutor general’s office instituted criminal proceedings under articles 308.1 (abuse of power) and 313 (forgery by an official) of the criminal code in connection with alleged irregularities in the financial activities of a number of non-governmental organisations, including the association. on 11 august 2014 the applicant appealed against this decision, claiming that his detention was unlawful. it referred to the seriousness of the charges and the likelihood that if released the applicant might abscond from the investigation, obstruct the proceedings and interfere with the course of justice. on 23 october 2014 the applicant applied again to the nasimi district court, requesting the substitution of remand with either house arrest or release on bail. on 7 august 2014 the prosecutor in charge applied to the nasimi district court to have a search of the office of the association (see paragraph 8 above) and “other places of storage” authorised. the applicant did not have his own bed and had to share beds with others. the temperature inside the cell was very high. there was no bathroom and the sanitary conditions were very bad. however, the cell was not adequately ventilated and the temperature inside the cell was very high in august and september and very low in winter because the central-heating system was turned on only after 15 november. according to the results of the scan, there was no pathology in the brain or the vertebral column. on 28 october 2014 the applicant asked the head of the detention facility to inform him of the results of the medical examinations. the distance between the detention facility and the court-house was about 15-20 km. on 28 january 2015 the applicant lodged under the code of criminal procedure a complaint with the sabunchu district court against the baku pre-trial detention facility, complaining about his conditions of detention and of the lack of adequate medical treatment. on 8 february 2015 the court left the applicant’s complaint without examination for lack of jurisdiction as the investigation had been already completed and his criminal case had gone to trial.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in yerevan. he had not seen the murder or heard gun shots. it appears that he had fallen from the window of the office of the head of the homicide unit, g.t., the results of the talk, he had then left the office but had not wanted to leave levon gulyan alone, so he had taken him to officer s.m. the window had been open so he had immediately understood that levon gulyan had escaped. he had quickly run to the courtyard and had seen levon gulyan lying on his back, with blood around his head. on 18 may 2007 a medical examination was performed, which found that it could not be ruled out that the lock of hair found at the scene had belonged to levon gulyan. by letter of 12 july 2007 the prosecutor, in reply to an enquiry made by the yerevan prosecutor’s office, stated, inter alia, that the officers of the police station, having received an assignment to find and bring eyewitnesses, had brought levon gulyan to the prosecutor’s office for questioning, which had happened only once on 10 may 2007. in its decision, reasoned in detail, the district court found, inter alia, that: (a) the investigating authority had failed to determine the lawfulness of taking levon gulyan and others between 10 and 12 may 2007 to the law-enforcement agencies and keeping them there for extended periods of time; (b) the allegations raised in the press and by some of the witnesses, including barman h.m., on 16 june 2008 the prosecutor lodged an appeal against this decision. there had been no instruction from the investigator to carry out a face-to-face confrontation and, moreover, by taking levon gulyan to an alleged confrontation, the pdci officers had violated article 206 § 2 of the ccp, pursuant to which a witness had had to be questioned at the location where the investigation had been in train or, if necessary, where he or she had been located, whereas the pdci could not be considered to have been either of those. from a telephone conversation he had overheard between pdci officer g.t. on 5 february 2010 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of the district court. on 18 january 2011 the investigation was resumed and assigned to the same sis investigator. it appears that none of those authorities had at their disposal a dummy of the required size.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in yerevan. it further appears that the applicant was an active participant in the rallies and was often on the podium, and had made a speech on the first day of the rallies. it further appears that police officer a.arsh. according to the testimony of police officer a.aru., twice an ambulance had been called to provide medical assistance. while pursuing them i noticed one person near yerevan circus who was showing overly active resistance to the police and who climbed into a random taxi... being nearby, i approached the car and removed that person, who dropped a knife at that moment. as regards the charge of assault under article 316 § 2 of the cc, a group of 20-25 persons, without presenting themselves as police officers or asking him to follow them to a police station, preemptively attacked him and beat him up in the street and, by doing so, created an appearance of resistance. as regards the charge under article 301 of the cc, this was not based on any evidence and it was not even stated what calls for a violent overthrow of the government he had allegedly made. on 3 june 2008 the applicant applied to the general prosecutor requesting that criminal proceedings be instituted and an investigation be carried out into the fact of his ill-treatment. the investigator found that the charge under article 225.1 § 2 of the cc had to be dropped since it had been established by the investigation that the order issued by the police officers to the demonstrators on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m. at freedom square was not to disperse but to allow them to inspect the area. it was stated that the applicant, having regularly participated in the unauthorised demonstrations held following the presidential election, had been present at freedom square on 1 march 2008 at around 7 a.m., when some of the demonstrators, using makeshift clubs, rods and other dangerous objects, had assaulted the police officers after the latter had demanded to be allowed to verify the information concerning the possession of arms and ammunition by the demonstrators. he and his co-thinkers who were at freedom square on 1 march 2008 had found out about the forthcoming arrival of the police several hours in advance. had participated in clashes on both 1 and 2 march 2008. who were on duty at that time in the same area, noticed the incident and brought [the applicant] in to kentron police station, during which a bladed weapon – a knife – fell from [the applicant’s] pocket, as well as two mobile telephones and a bunch of keys. moreover, it appeared from their statements that they had been arresting different demonstrators from different locations, all at the same time, which cast doubt on the veracity of their statements.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in yerevan. on 1 march 2008 the applicant, who was apparently near the main rally location around the time of the police intervention, was taken to a police station on suspicion of assaulting a police officer. on 5 march 2008 the applicant was formally charged and brought before the arabkir and kanaker-zeytun district court of yerevan. he had a higher education, was married, was head of a company, had a minor child dependent on him and had no previous convictions. the district court decided to allow the investigator’s application, taking into account the dangerousness of the imputed offence and the fact that if the applicant remained at large, he could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit another offence and influence witnesses. on 20 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. on 14 may, 17 june, 17 july and 5 august 2008 the applicant applied to the district court for his release. thereafter the applicant declared that he wished to lodge a challenge to the judge. between 6 march and 23 december 2008 the applicant was kept at nubarashen remand prison. m and accommodated seven to eight inmates. the air was stale, as the only source of ventilation was a window measuring one square metre and facing a pit filled with several centimetres of rubbish and frequented by rats. m, had a pit in front of it which prevented natural light from entering the cell. from 15 april to 4 september 2008 the applicant was kept in cell no. the cell had only eight beds, so the inmates had to sleep in turns. the sanitary conditions were relatively satisfactory.
the applicant was born in 1964 and is detained in gorodyshche in the rivne region. according to the applicant, following his arrest, from 19 to 22 july 2010 police officers ill-treated him in order to force him to confess to attempted murder of the victims. on 22 july 2010 an arrest report was drawn up documenting the applicant’s arrest on suspicion of attempted murder. he responded that he had chosen the window which had been lit up by light from a computer, indicating that people were living there. on 29 july 2010 the applicant was charged with attempted murder and the investigator attempted to question him. he refused to give evidence and stated that he would testify on that point in the course of the trial. the prosecutor questioned several police officers, who denied any ill‑treatment. on 21 october 2010, on completion of the investigation, the applicant and his lawyer studied the file and stated that they had no statements or requests to make. testified that on the night of the crime he had taken the applicant to the victims’ house in his car and that the applicant had had a bag with him. he insisted that he had been ill‑treated in order to extract his confession. on 29 may 2012 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) requested the slovyansk prosecutor to investigate the applicant’s ill-treatment allegations. officer f. stated that he could not explain the discrepancy between the date of the applicant’s initial confession, 21 july 2010, and the date of his official arrest, 22 july 2010, insisting that the applicant had been handed over to the investigator, who had put him under arrest immediately following his confession. lawyer o. stated that the applicant had not complained to him of any ill-treatment. by way of reasoning, the prosecutor stated, in particular, that the records of the police station where the applicant had allegedly been ill‑treated did not show that he had entered the station during the relevant period. on 19 march 2013 the high specialised civil and criminal court upheld the judgment of the trial court and the ruling of the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. he is a campaigner against abortion and operates an anti-abortion website. on 12 and 13 april 2005 the applicant distributed leaflets in the vicinity of the medical practice of dr st., in addition the leaflet contained the following statements:“according to international criminal law: aggravated murder is the intentional ‘bringing-to-death’ of an innocent human being!” ( sinngemӓβ aus den internationalen strafgesetzen: mord ist das vorsӓtzliche “zu-tode-bringen” eines unschuldigen menschen!) die ermordung der menschen in auschwitz war rechtswidrig, aber der moralisch verkommene ns-staat hatte den mord an den unschuldigen menschen erlaubt und nicht unter strafe gestellt.) lodged an application for a civil injunction against the applicant and on 25 october 2005 the mannheim regional court granted the requested injunction. the court ordered the applicant to desist from speaking to passers-by in the immediate vicinity of the medical practice and labelling the abortions performed by the plaintiff unlawful with the objective of irritating female patients and preventing them from visiting dr st. on 24 february 2007 the karlsruhe court of appeal upheld the decision and slightly modified the wording specifying the geographical area concerned by the injunction. it also refused to grant leave to appeal on points of law. the courts held that in the case at issue there were no factual or legal differences justifying deviating from the case-law of the federal court of justice. in so far that the doctor in the present case was slightly more well-known than the doctor in the original case, the court of appeal held that this was of minor relevance. in sum, the applicant had vilified the non‑criminal professional activities of dr st. the applicant had therefore severely interfered with dr st. on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. he is a campaigner against abortion and operates an anti-abortion website (babycaust.de). at the time of the proceedings outlined below, the website included, among other things, the following content. on the starting page a picture of graves was shown and the text underneath read “then: holocaust”. upon clicking on the picture, the user was directed to a page titled: “abortion – the new holocaust?” on which the holocaust was compared to abortions. on the left margin of the starting page, there were several links, of which one was called “life or death?”. from that page, the reader was directed to a location-based alphabetical list mentioning the names and practice addresses of doctors who performed abortions in germany, and to a request for prayers for those doctors. ermöglichen und begünstigen einen straffreien kindermord im mutterschoβ.) one of the doctors listed on the applicant’s website, dr q., sought a civil injunction ordering the applicant to remove his name and address from the website. it observed, in particular, that the present case was not comparable to similar cases which had concerned an interference with personality rights by the distribution of personalised leaflets. subsequently dr q. appealed and – during the appeal proceedings –modified his application, seeking a civil injunction ordering the applicant to desist from labelling abortions, such as those performed by dr q., “aggravated murder”. on 28 february 2007 the karlsruhe court of appeal granted the sought injunction. in sum, the statements of the website could be understood as a personalised accusation against dr q. of perpetrating aggravated murder. on 29 may 2007 the federal court of justice refused a request by the applicant for legal aid on the grounds that the applicant’s intended appeal on points of law lacked sufficient prospect of success.
the applicant was born on 6 july 1948 and lives in kyiv. on 6 february 2009 he was appointed president of that court by the council of judges of ukraine (a body of judicial self-governance). he was appointed for a five-year term, it being understood that he would reach the retirement age in july 2013, before the end of that term. in february 2011 the council of administrative court judges (another body of judicial self-governance) decided, among other issues, to review the functioning of the kyiv administrative court of appeal. the review was carried out in february and march 2011 and concerned the years 2009 and 2010, as well as the period between january and february 2011. in reply, the kyiv administrative court of appeal informed the hcj once again that the applicant was on holiday until 8 july 2011. it stated that “the improper organisation of the court’s work was the result of the failure by the president of the court, mr a. denisov, to comply with the provisions of the applicable laws concerning the fulfilment of his administrative duties”. out of the eighteen members present, eight were judges. fourteen votes were cast in favour of the applicant’s dismissal. on 23 june 2011 the applicant was dismissed from his administrative position, remaining in office as a judge of the same court. in his claim the applicant submitted that the hcj had failed to comply with the requirements of an independent and impartial tribunal. the applicant further argued that his right to participate in the hearings had not been secured. the hac adopted a decision to that effect, stating that it had no jurisdiction to determine that issue. on 11 october 2011 the hac rejected the applicant’s claim concerning his dismissal from the administrative position as unsubstantiated. in conclusion, the hac stated that the hcj had not violated the constitution or the laws of ukraine.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1976 respectively and live in switzerland. at the relevant time, they were members of a research cooperative called the east scientific research cooperative (doğu bilimsel araştırmalar kooperatifi – “the cooperative”). within the context of the exhibition, photographs of deceased members of the pkk (an illegal armed organisation), deceased members of the security forces who had been killed in security operations, persons who had lost their lives in prison, victims of enforced disappearances and victims of assassinations by unknown assailants in south-east turkey were publicly displayed. on 31 may 2005 the applicants gave a statement to the investigating judge. both of the applicants maintained that the exhibition in question had been organised for purely sociological reasons, and that they had conducted interviews with the families of the deceased which had also been included in the exhibition. they asserted that there had been no intention to disseminate propaganda in favour of the pkk. the investigating judge dismissed an application by the public prosecutor to remand the accused in custody. on 6 october 2005 the public prosecutor filed an indictment with the diyarbakır assize court, charging the applicants and five other suspects with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of law no. the applicants were sentenced to two years and a year and eight months’ imprisonment, respectively. in its judgment, the court observed that the invitations to the exhibition had referred to the armed conflict between the security forces and the pkk as a “war”, and the pkk members as “guerrillas”, thus glorifying the deceased terrorists and inciting young people to become members of the pkk. 5271), which regulates the suspension of a judgment’s pronouncement. however, the trial court’s judgment of 18 may 2006 became final in respect of the first applicant. on 3 august 2009 the decision of the court of cassation was filed with the registry of the first-instance court. on 22 october 2009, in accordance with article 231 of the code of criminal procedure, the diyarbakır assize court decided to suspend the pronouncement of its judgment in respect of the second applicant on the condition that he did not commit another intentional offence for a period of five years. the first applicant served the sentence arising from the judgment of 18 may 2006.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tunceli. on 5 april 2007 the applicant attended a concert performed by a band called “grup yorum” in the hozat district of tunceli. on 17 october 2007 the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment with the malatya assize court, charging the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of the dhkp/c (revolutionary people’s liberation party/front), an illegal armed organisation, under section 7 (2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor noted that the applicant had chanted the following slogans during the concert: “mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; fight until emancipation”[1] (“mahir, hüseyin, ulaş; kurtuluşa kadar savaş”); “martyrs of the revolution are immortal” (“devrim şehitleri ölümsüzdür”); “revolutionary prisoners are our honour” (“devrimci tutsaklar onurumuzdur”); and “victory on mountains, emancipation at the front; long live victory, long live resistance” (“dağlarda zafer, cephede kurtuluş; yaşasın zafer, yaşasın direniş”). during the investigation and the proceedings against him, the applicant stated that he had attended the concert in question and chanted the slogans “music shall not stop, dance shall continue” (“türküler susmaz , halaylar sürer”) and “we will not be defeated by oppression” (“baskılar bizi yıldıramaz”). he also noted that he had been on the concert’s organising committee. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment. in its judgment, on the basis of a police report on a police video recording of the concert of 5 april 2007, the indictment, the applicant’s defence submissions, and the public prosecutor’s observations on the merits of the case, the court considered it established that the applicant had chanted the slogans noted in the indictment. the court considered that the concert, for which legal and administrative authorisation had been obtained, had become a propaganda activity in favour of the dhkp/c, and that the applicant had chanted slogans used by that organisation. the malatya assize court concluded that the applicant had committed the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. on 4 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the first-instance court’s judgment. between 6 october 2011 and 1 august 2012 the applicant duly served his prison sentence.
the applicant was born in 1971 and serves his life sentence in a correctional colony in the yamalo-nenetskiy region of russia. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 27 march 2003 the applicant was arrested on charges of illegal possession of firearms, two armed robberies of local post offices, murder of three russian post service cash messengers and attempted murder of the fourth one. on 14 october 2003 the case was sent to the supreme court of the buryatia republic (“the regional court”) for trial. twice, on 20 april 2004 and 22 may 2007, the applicant was convicted as charged. both convictions were set aside by the supreme court of russia. on 12 september 2008, in the course of the third round of jury trial, the regional court decided, upon a request by a representative of the russian post, to close proceedings to the public. it dismissed the applicant’s objections made with reference to article 6 § 1 of the convention. under the relevant russian post regulations that information was classified as “for internal use only”. the regional court found that that information was a trade secret protected by the commercial secrets act (federal law no. 98-fz of 29 july 2004) and that its disclosure could have harmed public interests. every hearing after 12 september 2008 was held in camera. on 14 december 2008 the jury convicted the applicant as charged. in the last days of december the trial judge sentenced him to life imprisonment. the court of appeal held, in particular, that the decision to dispense with a public hearing had been lawful and rejected, in a summary fashion, the relevant arguments by the applicant.
he is currently serving a prison sentence. it sentenced the applicant to death in absentia. on 1 june 1999 the vlora court of appeal (“the court of appeal”), following appeals lodged by the two other co-accused, upheld the district court’s decision of 17 april 1999. however, it sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment. on 1 december 2006 the applicant was extradited to albania from italy. he was officially informed of his conviction in absentia on the same day. on 8 december 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the district court for leave to appeal out of time. on 25 january 2007 the district court dismissed the application, finding that the supreme court’s decision of 8 may 2001 had become res judicata and that, consequently, the applicant could not be tried a second time for the same offence. on 8 june 2007 and 2 july 2010, following the applicant’s appeals, the court of appeal and the supreme court, respectively, upheld that decision. he also complained about the unfairness of the proceedings in absentia. on 21 september 2011, the constitutional court, sitting as a full bench, rejected the appeal by a majority. it further found that that complaint was in any event time-barred. it also reasoned that in the present case the supreme court’s unifying decision no. 1 of 20 january 2011 was applicable (see izet haxhia v. albania, no. the decision was communicated to the applicant’s lawyer on 25 september 2007.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in diyarbakır. on 30 september 2007 a reading out of a press statement and a march were held in diyarbakır in order to protest about the conditions of detention and alleged poisoning of abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk (kurdistan workers’ party), an illegal armed organisation. the applicant, as a member of the dtp, participated in the gathering and the ensuing march. according to a police report dated 9 october 2007, the applicant was seen while carrying a banner which read “i̇nsanlık zehirleniyor” (“the humanity is being poisoned”) and applauding together with other demonstrators in the police video footage. on 9 october 2007 the applicant was taken into police custody. on the same day she was detained on remand. on 17 october 2007 the diyarbakır public prosecutor charged the applicant with disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) on account of the content of the banner she had carried during the demonstration of 30 september 2007. on 4 december 2007 the applicant was released pending trial. on 18 march 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant as charged. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 9 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 18 march 2008. on an unspecified date the applicant started serving her prison sentence. on 17 july 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the diyarbakır assize court ordered her release from prison, in accordance with law no. 6352 which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and which had amended certain provisions of law no.
the first applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in vilnius. the second applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in pravieniškės. the first applicant has been detained in lukiškės remand prison since 17 march 2008. on 27 july 2012 he lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he claimed 74,690 lithuanian litai (ltl – approximately 21,630 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 8 november 2012 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim. the court also found, on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities, that the temperature and the amount of natural light in some of the cells in which the applicant had been detained had not complied with domestic hygiene norms. the applicant was awarded ltl 1,500 (approximately eur 434) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the second applicant was detained in vilnius correctional facility from 8 june 2012 to 5 february 2016. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic requirement of 3.1 sq. it also considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision and on 15 may 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld in part his appeal. it found that, according to the applicant’s submissions which the administration of the correctional facility had failed to refute, for 274 days he had had between 2.33 and 3.04 sq. m of personal space, in breach of the relevant domestic requirements. the court considered that, despite the fact that the applicant had been allowed to move freely during the day and that the material conditions of detention had been appropriate, there were grounds to award him non-pecuniary damages.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in adıyaman. on 17 october 1999 the applicant sat an examination in order to become a public servant. she was successful in the examination and on 27 june 2000 she was notified by the state personnel department attached to the prime minister’s office that she had been appointed to the post of security officer in the kilis branch of tedaş, the state-run electricity company. on an unspecified date the applicant lodged an action against tedaş with the ankara administrative court requesting the annulment of the decision of the kilis branch of tedaş. in her deposition, the applicant noted that being a man was not a requirement for appointment to the post in question and that she fulfilled all the requirements for that post. the applicant, being a woman, could therefore not be recruited as a security officer. the court held that the requirement of “having completed military service” should be considered to apply only to male candidates and that there had been no restriction on women working as security officers in tedaş. on 30 january 2002 tedaş lodged an appeal against the judgment of 28 november 2001. on 1 april 2003 the applicant was recruited by tedaş. on 21 october 2003 the supreme administrative court quashed the judgment of the ankara administrative court, holding that the requirement regarding military service demonstrated that the post in question was reserved for male candidates. the high court therefore found that the administration’s decision had been in accordance with the law. on 19 march 2004 the applicant was dismissed from her post. on 30 december 2004 the ankara administrative court dismissed the applicant’s case, taking into consideration the decision of the supreme administrative court. on 7 may 2007 the supreme administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 30 december 2004. on 12 july 2007 the supreme administrative court’s judgment was notified to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in assemini (italy). on 29 february 2008 the mostar municipal court (“the municipal court”) rejected the applicant’s request for the enforcement of this decision, deeming it unenforceable. on 19 november 2008 the municipal court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 1 april 2010 the cantonal court quashed this decision and again remitted the case to the municipal court. on 18 february 2011 the municipal court partly accepted the objection against the writ of execution specifically as regards the interest on the main debt calculated from 4 january 2007, and the interest on the total costs of the enforcement proceedings. on 2 december 2011 the cantonal court upheld this decision. on 23 december 2013 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina partially accepted the applicant’s appeal and thereby found a violation of her right to a trial within a reasonable time, due to the non-enforcement of the decision of the municipal court of 18 february 2011 (see paragraph 12 above). the constitutional court, however, did not award the non-pecuniary damage requested by the applicant. on 21 october 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina confirmed that the final decision in question had not yet been enforced. on 18 december 2014 the said final decision was enforced and the applicant was paid in cash. on 14 september 2011, 4 november 2011 and 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted requests for the acceleration of the enforcement proceedings. on 17 september 2013 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina found a violation of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time, due to the duration of the enforcement proceedings before the municipal court. on 16 october 2013 the cantonal court dismissed the appeal lodged by p.m. 25. on 11 june 2015 the municipal court issued a writ of execution. it appears that the applicant was still living in italy at that time.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in the kızıltepe district of mardin. the protesters gathered in front of the building of the kızıltepe branch of the dtp and walked to the building of the district branch of the justice and development party (adalet ve kalkınma partisi), where a press statement was read out. the press statement concerned the clashes that had occurred between demonstrators and the police in diyarbakır on 29 and 30 march 2006. the protestors then returned to the dtp building. during the march the protesters chanted slogans. the applicant participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement as a member of the dtp. the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had attended the demonstration of 30 march 2006 and chanted the slogan “tooth for tooth, blood for blood, we are with you öcalan” (“dişe diş, kana kan, seninleyiz öcalan”). within the context of the criminal proceedings initiated following the indictment dated 8 march 2007, an expert who had examined the police video recordings of the public gathering of 30 march 2006 observed that the applicant had acted together with the crowd, but that it could not be established whether he had chanted the above-mentioned slogan since he had covered his mouth and nose. on 22 april 2008 the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant under section 7(2) of law no. in its judgment, the court noted that the applicant had accepted that he had participated in the march and the reading out of the press statement, but denied the veracity of the allegation that he had chanted any slogan. the assize court found it established that the march and the gathering at which a press statement had been read out on 30 march 2006 had turned into a propaganda event in favour of the pkk and an illegal demonstration, and that the accused, including the applicant, had actively participated in that event. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 2 july 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 22 april 2008. on 4 february 2011 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 21 june 2011 he was conditionally released.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in i̇zmir. on 21 march 2007 the applicant attended celebrations for the festival of newroz in buca, a district of the city of i̇zmir, as one of the moderators. on 10 april 2007 the i̇zmir assize court issued a warrant for the applicant’s arrest and a search of her residence. on 11 april 2007 she was arrested at her house. on 12 april 2007 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and the investigating judge. the investigating judge remanded the applicant in custody following her questioning. on 24 april 2007 the public prosecutor instituted criminal proceedings before the i̇zmir assize court against the applicant and seven other individuals, charging them under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. 3713) with disseminating propaganda in favour of an illegal organisation and, under article 215 of the criminal code, praising a crime or a criminal. subsequently the criminal proceedings commenced before the i̇zmir assize court. we thank those who enabled us to be where we are today. the assize court further noted that following the applicant’s speech the crowd had made a “v” sign and that during the speeches made by the other speakers, the crowd had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader. the court found that the speakers had provoked the crowd and had as a result committed the offence of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. on 21 september 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the i̇zmir assize court. between 13 january and 22 june 2012 the applicant served her prison sentence. on 22 june 2012 the diyarbakır assize court ordered her conditional release.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in novi sad. the proceedings began on 19 november 1999 when a third private party brought a lawsuit concerning his tenancy rights in respect of a flat owned by a respondent. the applicant acted as an intervener in these proceedings on the side of the respondent since she had previously signed a tenancy agreement with him. on 8 april 2003 the first instance court suspended the proceedings (mirovanje postupka). on 20 august 2003, 20 october 2005 and 13 may 2009 the first instance court terminated the proceedings having deemed the lawsuit as withdrawn due to the fact that the parties had failed to appear at the scheduled hearings. all three of these decisions were subsequently quashed on appeal. on 29 march 2012 the first instance court rendered a judgment in favour of the respondent and the applicant. on 22 august 2012 this judgment was upheld on appeal. on 28 september 2012 the applicant lodged a further appeal with the constitutional court alleging a violation of the right to a hearing within a reasonable time. on 10 february 2015 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time, but rejected her claim for non-pecuniary damages stating that the finding of a violation alone constituted sufficient redress for the said breach. in so doing it noted, inter alia, that the applicant had significantly contributed to the length of proceedings in question.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in sanski most. by a judgment of the banja luka court of first instance of 23 may 2005, which became final on 11 september 2007, the republika srpska (an entity of bosnia and herzegovina) was ordered to pay the applicant 42,767 convertible marks (bam)[1] on account of pecuniary damage together with default interest calculated from 23 may 2005 until final payment. on 1 february 2010 the applicant submitted a request for the issuance of the writ of execution in his case, which request he amended on 30 august 2010. on 15 november 2010 the banja luka court of first instance issued the writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju). on 31 may 2011 the banja luka court of first instance made certain corrections to its decision of 18 march 2011. on 15 december 2011 the banja luka court of second instance quashed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 18 march 2011 and remitted the case for reconsideration. on 26 march 2012 the applicant submitted a request for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance. on 23 april 2012 the applicant appealed the decision of the banja luka court of first instance of 12 april 2012. on 11 june, 13 july, and 21 november 2012, and on 15 january 2013 the applicant submitted further requests for the acceleration of the proceedings before the banja luka court of second instance. on 21 january 2013 the banja luka court of second instance rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 12 april 2012. on 7 october 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina ruled in favour of the applicant that the enforcement proceedings before the banja luka court of first instance had not been finalised within a reasonable time. it further ordered the banja luka court of first instance to urgently expedite the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case. the constitutional court considered this to be sufficient just satisfaction and rejected the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damage. on 8 november 2016 the final decision in question was enforced in cash, regarding the principal amount and the statutory default interests. on 5 july 2017 the costs of the enforcement proceedings and related statutory default interests were also fully paid to the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is detained in kybartai. on 22 december 2011 the applicant was arrested and taken to klaipėda police station, where he was detained for various periods until 5 march 2013, for 130 days in total. for twenty-two days the applicant had between 3.25 and 4 square metres of personal space at his disposal; for the remaining period he had more than 4 square metres of personal space, sometimes even up to 9.36 square metres. on 4 january 2012 the applicant was taken to šiauliai remand prison, where he was detained for various periods until 13 march 2013. no information concerning separate cells, their sizes and the number of inmates has been provided to the court. on 11 october 2013 the court of appeal rejected an appeal by the applicant and the judgment became final. between 13 march 2013 and 5 may 2014 the applicant was held in five different cells: nos. the government have not provided any information regarding this matter. he also complained about the lack of long-term visits in lukiškės remand prison from 23 november 2011 until october 2013, and claimed that consequently he had separated from his partner. the applicant further complained regarding his conditions of detention in klaipėda police station between 23 december 2011 and 5 march 2013. he complained regarding overcrowding, low temperatures during the winter and high temperatures during the summer, insufficient ventilation, the fact that he could only shower once a week, the lack of proper partitions between toilets and cells, and the fact that there had been no long-term visits. on one evening the applicant had had 2.48 square metres of personal space at his disposal. with regard to klaipėda police station, the court found that the applicant had had insufficient personal space (less than 5 square metres) for fifty‑seven days, and that the partition wall between the toilet and the cell, which was 1.2 and 1.3 metres in height in different cells, had been too low and had not satisfied the standards of the domestic law or the cpt. however, the court held that for those twenty-six days the deviation from the domestic norms had not been significant and thus it agreed with the first-instance decision. two other short-term visits were changed into phone calls (the visits of 12 june 2015 and 29 october 2015).
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in adıyaman. on 21 march 2007 the applicant participated in the newroz (kurdish new year) celebrations held in malatya. on an unspecified date the malatya public prosecutor filed an indictment charging the applicant and twenty other people with disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. the public prosecutor claimed that the applicant had waved a green, yellow and red flag symbolising the pkk. on 6 march 2008 the malatya assize court convicted all of the accused as charged, including the applicant. on the basis of evidence in the case file, the court found it established that one of the accused, ms n.k., had made a press statement, and the other accused, including the applicant, had chanted slogans in favour of the pkk and its leader. the court also noted that the accused had waved the so-called flag of the pkk. the applicant was sentenced to ten months’ imprisonment. on 31 may 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 6 march 2008. on 21 december 2011 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 12 july 2012 the malatya assize court ordered the applicant’s release from prison in accordance with law no. 6352, which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and had amended certain provisions of law no. on 12 december 2012 the malatya assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicant’s prison sentence in accordance with provisional section 1 of law no. the suspension was for a period of three years, on the condition that he did not commit a terrorism-related offence during that period.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in istanbul. 3713), which was in force at the material time. he was questioned at length about his telephone conversations that had been intercepted. the police read out the transcripts of the said telephone conversations and asked the applicant to comment on them. he was further questioned in relation to allegations about aiding and abetting a terrorist organisation as well as his participation in several illegal demonstrations on behalf of this terrorist organisation and several incidents of assault and battery. he was further asked questions about a co‑accused’s incriminating statements. on 2 november 2009 the public prosecutor questioned the applicant in the presence of his lawyer. the applicant did not deny that he had had these conversations but claimed that they were not made with the intention to plan a terrorist action. on 2 november 2009 the applicant’s lawyer asked the court to lift the restriction of access to the investigation file. on 10 november 2009 the istanbul assize court rejected this objection. on 12 november 2009 the istanbul assize court, relying on the public prosecutor’s written opinion, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative, dismissed the objection without holding a hearing. on 25 november 2009 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with aiding and abetting of a terrorist organisation, and looting. on the same date the restriction on the file was lifted. on 26 february 2010 the applicant was released. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant are still pending.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in tuzla. by judgment of the mostar municipal court of 18 june 2009, which became final on 16 december 2010, company r. was ordered to reinstate the applicant in his previous employment, as well as to pay him a total amount of 16,314 convertible marks (bam)[1], together with default interest calculated from 20 march 2007 until final payment. the respondent company was further ordered to pay the applicant bam 2,641 in respect of legal costs, together with default interest calculated from 18 june 2009 until final payment. lastly, the respondent company was ordered to cover all pension-related contributions in respect of the applicant between 1 january 2003 and 17 january 2007. on 17 october 2011 the municipal court issued a writ of execution (rješenje o izvršenju) in this regard. on 23 february 2012, upon the applicant’s request, the municipal court amended its decision of 17 october 2011 by changing the object of enforcement. on 23 january 2012 it fined the respondent in this connection. on 1 february 2013 the municipal court joined the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case with an earlier enforcement procedure against the respondent. on 25 june 2014 the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina found a violation of the applicant’s right to enforcement within a reasonable time, and ordered the municipal court to urgently finalise the enforcement proceedings. the constitutional court considered this to be sufficient just satisfaction and rejected the applicant’s claim for non-pecuniary damage. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant on 15 august 2014. on 18 march 2015 the municipal court ordered the sale of the respondent’s property. on 27 april 2015 it transferred the respondent’s real estate to company h., the highest ranked judgment creditor. the applicant did not lodge an appeal against this decision. according to the latest information provided by the parties on 28 july 2017, on that date the enforcement proceedings in the applicant’s case were still pending.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in diyarbakır. the applicant read the statement in question. 2911) on account of their participation in the above-mentioned event. they were accused of participating in the gathering and carrying banners with slogans such as “the solution is in i̇mralı[2]” (“çözüm i̇mralı’da”), “solitary confinement is a crime against humanity” (“tecrit insanlık suçudur”), “not eu, not us, öcalan has the solution” (“ne ab ne abd, çözüm öcalan’da”) , “the youth is öcalan’s fedai”[3] (“gençlik apo’nun fedaisidir”), and “freedom to öcalan” (“öcalan’a özgürlük”), as well as posters of abdullah öcalan. on 5 october 2006 the ergani criminal court decided that it lacked jurisdiction to examine the case. it held that the impugned acts constituted the offence proscribed by section 7 (2) of law no. 3713 and that the accused should therefore be tried by the diyarbakır assize court. on 19 march 2007 the ergani criminal court once again decided that the diyarbakır assize court had jurisdiction over the case. on 10 august 2007 the sixth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court began the trial in the case. on the same day the diyarbakır assize court convicted the applicant of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7 (2) of law no. the court based its judgment, among others, on a police report regarding the reading out of the press statement dated 15 february 2005 and a police report dated 23 february 2005 on the examination of a police video recording of the event of 15 february 2005. committed the offence proscribed by section 7(2) of law no. 3713, as they participated in the reading out of a press statement organised by the dehap in ergani on 15 february 2005 on the anniversary of the arrest of abdullah öcalan, and chanted slogans such as ‘the solution is in i̇mralı’, ‘solitary confinement is a crime against humanity’, ‘not eu, not us, öcalan has the solution’, and ‘the youth is öcalan’s fedai’. they marched and chanted these slogans without obtaining prior permission.” on 22 november 2010 the fourth chamber of the diyarbakır assize court dismissed the applicant’s objection.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. in the article he discussed criminal proceedings which were pending against two men called maksim kosenkov and ruslan pogulyayev on charges of obtaining land by fraud. the lads wanted to replicate the deed of the bryansk thieves from the local administration, but they lacked the power, although they had skills in abundance. they ‘certified’ the papers with makeshift stamps and took them to the bryansk region department of the state register (росреестр). they will wear you down with requests for piles of papers. they could be doing good deeds, raising their kids. 1 remand prison in moscow] and who happily got out with a million in compensation. we shall have to shake the dust off those volumes once more. the thing is, they were going to build cottages there and sell them at triple the price. although we are talking about 66 hectares of expensive land. it further found that the first, third and fourth sentences quoted above could not be considered as damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as he was not the only official in the bryansk administration and it was not clear from the article that the author had meant him exactly. the court also noted that the fourth sentence did not constitute an assertion and had neither a legal nor a literal meaning. furthermore, the sentence in question had not contained information about any facts but had merely expressed the author’s opinion and his suppositions. “however, they got carried away by the example of the big bryansk thieves and failed to take into account that the latter were protected from all sides – by the powers that be, the party, relations, and so on”; 18. on 22 october 2013 the bryansk regional court quashed the judgment on appeal and dismissed the claim.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. a very convenient and interesting position which, most importantly, is based on principle. others contend that that is just politics ...now the ‘sweet couple’ of former social democrats are united in their dislike of the speaker of the regional duma vladimir gaydukov. considering that the deputy speaker bugayev is eager to get the post of speaker, it is very likely that he could have promised his current post to the head of the committee on legislation ... and why not? sources note that he all too often takes a ‘promenade’ there in his official cars. and each one was a foreign car that was cooler than the one before ...” 8. помню, что на большом красивом плакате федоров красовался рядом с анатолием бугаевым и николаем руденком. фактически и один, и другой «кинули» лидера социал-демократов николая руденка. в настоящее время господин федоров на политическом распутье. баллотироваться по одномандатному избирательному округу – надо раскошеливаться, а это не в его правилах. и с каждым разом приобретал иномарку одну круче другой ...” 9. on 16 september 2008 bryansk state university issued a report on the psychological and linguistic expert examination (“the expert report”). lastly, with regard to the fifth quote, the court again relied on the findings of the expert report, which stated that the impugned passage contained information damaging to the claimant’s honour and reputation as it implied antisocial conduct on his part by suggesting that he had pursued his own enrichment instead of defending the interests of the public. it also ordered the newspaper to publish a retraction within ten days of the judgment’s entry into force. on 25 december 2008 the bryansk regional court upheld the judgment.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in kramatorsk. the above tragic event sparked a broad public outcry. he had assured v. that the latter would be taken care of in prison and that his term of imprisonment would be minimal. on 13 february 2004 the kyiv pecherskyy district court (“the pecherskyy court”) remanded the applicant in custody pending trial. the investigator also made a formal declaration that the case file was available for inspection by the accused and their lawyers. on 5 august 2005 the kyiv city court of appeal (“the kyiv court”) extended the applicant’s pre-trial detention to twenty months (until 10 october 2005) on the grounds that the applicant and his lawyers had not finished studying the case file, which consisted of over a hundred volumes. on 28 april 2006 the case file was sent to the supreme court for it to determine the court which would conduct the trial. on 18 june 2008 the trial court allowed a request by the prosecutor for the charge regarding b.’s murder to be severed into a separate set of proceedings. the remaining charges against the applicant, in respect of which the zaporizhzhya court continued his trial, concerned several counts of kidnapping and murder, as well as abuse of office on account of his having sold the evidence. on 19 february 2009 the zaporizhzhya court delivered a judgment by which it acquitted the applicant of kidnapping and murder for lack of evidence of his guilt. given that the applicant had already served that term, he was released in the court room. the criminal case was remitted for fresh examination by a first-instance court. on 30 january 2012 a dermatologist and a psychiatrist examined the applicant in the lugansk sizo and reported the absence of any acute health concerns. according to the applicant, he was not hospitalised. on 24 january 2013 the applicant was released (see paragraph 40 above).
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in klaipėda. complained to the klaipėda police that on that day he had been beaten up in the stairwell of his residential building by two teenagers, fifteen-year-old a.k. ( the police opened a pre-trial investigation. had asked the teenagers to leave the building and two of them had done so. was interviewed as a witness, with the applicant present during the interview. whom they had not known, had come out of his apartment and had begun yelling at the teenagers. ’s conviction and increased the award in respect of non-pecuniary damage to ltl 5,000 (approximately eur 1,450). ’s violent actions had impaired his health and had caused him physical and psychological suffering. had been the one who had started the assault. submitted that the courts in the criminal proceedings had ruled that v.o. in the face, arms and head and had kicked him in the back, as a result of which v.m. ’s father should have been one of the defendants, taking note of v.m. and that if he did not have sufficient assets they were to be paid by the applicant. on 28 april 2014 the klaipėda regional court dismissed the appeal lodged by the applicant and her son. the [court] notes that the fact that the defendant has not been prosecuted in criminal proceedings does not preclude his civil liability ... the first-instance court drew the well-founded conclusion that the conditions for the civil liability of the defendants were present: unlawful actions, fault, a causal link determining civil liability, and the damage caused to [v.m.].”
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in suponevo, the bryansk region. by a final decision of 2 august 2010 the application was allowed in that part. enforcement proceedings were instituted and subsequently discontinued. on 23 march 2012 the regnum centre news portal published an article on its website about the temporary closure of the tymoshkovykh shopping centre due to breaches of fire safety rules. the news portal reported that as the court hearing had taken place after the meeting, mr timoshkov had been outraged by the decision and had said as follows: “in my opinion, which is shared by officials at the ministry of emergency situations and deputy governor klimov, there is no threat to people’s safety. i do not know why [the court delivered] such a decision. however, tenants say that bailiffs might visit them again on 13 april. 639/12 headlined “... and were timoshkov’s errand boys” (“... и служили у тимошкова на посылках”)[1], where he criticised the officials who had taken the side of the shopping centre in the above events. they were ordered to rescue their patron timoshkov, and they did so. actually, they would not have been very embarrassed even if they had realised that they had revealed their connections. ‘ им дали команду спасать кормильца тимошкова, и они спасали. мало ли заведений было закрыто из-за нарушений противопожарных норм, но никому не бросали на выручку такой десант. on 27 september 2012 the bryansk district court of the bryansk region allowed the claim. in the first and second passages the information had been presented in the form of assertions. the court dismissed the applicant’s argument that all the facts described in the article were true, whereas in the passages concerned he had expressed his opinion.
the applicants were born in 1940 and 1950 respectively and live in the village of khasanya situated on the outskirts of nalchik, the capital of kabardino-balkaria republic, a region in the north caucasus. in the afternoon he told his colleague, mr m.t., understood that rasul tsakoyev was talking about the police. after lengthy beatings, a doctor in white overalls had entered the room, examined him, checked his pupils and made some injections that left marks on his shoulders. on 19 october 2004 two hundred and forty residents of the khasanya village submitted a joint petition to the kabardino-balkaria prosecutor asking him to ensure the prosecution of the police officers who had abducted rasul tsakoyev on 27 september 2004 next to the prosecutor’s office and then tortured him until 29 september 2004, causing his death from the ill-treatment they had inflicted. the applicant stressed that his son had told him that he had been abducted and tortured by ubop officers on the premises of the police unit and that he had been subjected to severe beatings on the direct orders of the head of the ubop, officer k. 31. on 9 october 2004 the investigators questioned rasul tsakoyev’s aunt, ms z. e., who gave a statement similar to that given by the first applicant and to the applicants’ submission before the court. he also stated that rasul tsakayev had alleged that he had been severely beaten by the police officers on the premises of the ubop. mr tsakoyev had told them that he had been subjected to ill-treatment at the ubop premises. who stated that they had treated mr tsakoyev in the hospital until his death on 4 october 2004. on 16 december 2004 the investigators questioned the deputy head ubop officer, a.e., during which the witnesses maintained their contradictory statements. however, sometime later rasul’s friends told us that he had not been taken anywhere but had been detained in the ubop building. in april 2006 the applicants applied in person to the deputy prosecutor of kabardino-balkaria, who promised to supervise the investigation personally. on 23 december 2005 the nalchik town court allowed the complaint.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in balashikha, a town in the moscow region. on 25 june 2012 the nagatinskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”) discontinued the examination of the applicant’s claim in so far as it concerned the determination of his contact rights. on 28 july 2014 the city court upheld the judgment of 24 january 2014 following an appeal by a.d. to carry out or to abstain from certain actions. on 17 august and 24 august 2015 the bailiff telephoned a.d. on 4 december 2015 the bailiff several times called a.d. ’s telephone number, but nobody answered. over the course of 2015 the applicant lodged multiple complaints concerning the inactivity of the the inter-district department of bailiffs to various authorities, including the inter-district prosecutor’s office, the head of the federal department of bailiffs’ service for moscow, and the ombudsman for children. ’s mother, to whom the bailiff handed a notice of enforcement of the judgment of 24 january 2014. 1457 in moscow, the moscow city children’s polyclinic no. according to the government, on an unspecified date the bailiff imposed an execution fee on a.d. on 29 april 2016 the bailiff obtained a.d. she furthermore submitted that she could not comply with the judgment of 24 january 2014 since the child strongly objected to having any contact with the applicant. prevented the applicant from seeing the child; on the second occasion neither she nor the child were present at their place of residence at the scheduled time. on 12 march 2017 the applicant again came to see his daughter; this time he was accompanied by a bailiff.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in zagreb. after she had refused that offer, he had threatened to move into her flat when she was absent. in connection with the applicant’s allegations, on 21 december 2010 the police interviewed m.b. on 25 december 2010 the applicant informed the police that somebody was trying to break into the premises in which the fire had broken out few days earlier. stated that she had had problems with m.b., who had threatened her since she had refused to move out of the building. they had said that they represented a certain ma.be., they had asked about a certain person and left. who according to the applicant had become the owner of the building on 21 december 2010) and ma.be.[2] had been behind the fires on 22 december 2010 and 4 january 2011. he also stated that he had started negotiating with the tenants through a lawyer about the possibility of their removal from the building. he denied threatening them or otherwise being associated with the arson. however, a sample of male dna had been identified on one of the objects. informed the police of a message which he had received from the applicant in which she suggested that o.č. alleging that he had threatened her in connection with the above-mentioned debt in respect of the flat. on 9 november 2013 the police informed the state attorney’s office of the applicant’s complaints, and the state attorney’s office requested that a further interview be conducted with o.č.
the applicants are owners of residential buildings or apartments which were subject to the rent control system. 37926/05 and 4 others, §§ 123-127, 3 july 2014). one flat in the building was rented under the rent control system. on 30 may 2005 the court decided that j.m. had concealed the fact that her then-husband owned another flat. in a judgment of 5 may 2011 the district court dismissed the co-owners’ action, stating that the tenant had not been obliged to disclose her then husband’s ownership in the earlier proceedings and that the landlords could therefore not claim damages in this respect. 107/2006 on the deregulation of rents had entered into force. in a separate judgment given on the same date, the district court, after the co-owners had brought an action for payment of czk 75,292 (eur 2,964) against the tenant (and subsequently also against the state), ordered the tenant to pay czk 60 (eur 2.36) to the landlords. on 21 september 2011 the municipal court upheld on appeal this judgment in respect of the tenant but quashed it in respect of the state on the grounds that the publication of the plenary opinion in 2009[1] should have been taken into account for the calculation of the beginning of the three-year statutory limitation period under section 32(1) of the state liability act. on 20 november 2012 the constitutional court dismissed a constitutional complaint lodged by the applicant as manifestly ill-founded. the applicant is the co-owner of a tenement building in prague in which nine out of eleven flats were rented under the rent control system. on 7 october 2004 he brought an action against the state, represented by the ministry of finance, for damages in the amount of czk 772,524 (eur 30,414), corresponding to the difference between the regulated rent and the market rent in the locality in question for the period from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2003. it endorsed the assessment of the first-instance court as to the inapplicability of the state liability act. on 27 june 2012 the municipal court reduced on appeal the damages awarded to the applicant to czk 40,980 (eur 1,613). in the opinion of the supreme court, compensation for the restriction of the right to property could not be considered as constituting compensation for damage and did not cover loss of profit.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in županja. on 5 july 2011 the applicant was indicted before the zagreb municipal criminal court (općinski kazneni sud u zagrebu) on charges of causing a road accident under article 272 of the criminal code. the applicant was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). on 4 may 2012 the zagreb municipal criminal court convicted the applicant as charged and gave him a suspended sentence of four months’ imprisonment with two years’ probation. on 23 may 2012 the applicant appealed against his conviction and asked to be allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 15 january 2013 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu), without informing the applicant or his lawyer, examined the case without holding a hearing. it dismissed the appeal and upheld the applicant’s conviction and sentence. the applicant then lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court (ustavni sud republike hrvatske), complaining, inter alia, that he had not been allowed to appear at the session of the appeal panel. on 18 september 2013 the constitutional court declared the applicant’s constitutional complaint inadmissible as manifestly ill-founded. that decision was served on the applicant’s representative on 4 october 2013.
the applicants were born in 1973 and 1970 respectively, and live in odessa. her mother, n., was its director and owner. on 23 july 2001 the odessa prymorskyy district prosecutor’s office (“the prymorskyy prosecutor’s office”) opened a criminal case against the officials of company y. on suspicion of forgery of quality certificates for the company’s goods. furthermore, a medical examination of the first applicant of 25 july 2001 had documented in particular an abrasion below her right eye, a bruise on her chest and a bruise on her left thigh. in accordance with the relevant procedure, she had submitted the appeal via the court’s registry and the registry had been responsible for forwarding it to the appellate court. however, the clerk who had registered it had been dismissed in february 2003. on 26 april 2005 the first applicant again challenged the prosecutor’s ruling of 20 december 2001 before the suvorivskyy court. another officer had abrasions on his face and right arm possibly resulting from being scratched with fingernails. on 28 july 2005 the suvorivskyy court acquitted the first applicant. on 24 february and 7 may 2009 the odessa regional court of appeal and the supreme court respectively upheld that judgment. following several unsuccessful complaints to the prosecuting authorities in respect of the search and seizure, on an unspecified date the second applicant brought a commercial claim against company d., seeking the return of his property, as well as compensation for lost profit. apparently, the appellate court was not aware of the ruling of 14 february 2002. on 29 may 2002 the higher commercial court quashed the lower courts’ decisions and rejected the second applicant’s claim. on 25 november 2002 the odessa commercial court of appeal quashed the higher commercial court’s ruling of 29 may 2002. on 2 april 2002 the second applicant complained to the odessa regional commercial court of the bailiff’s inactivity as regards enforcing the ruling of 14 february 2002 (see paragraph 47 above).
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in zagreb. she gave birth to her first three children in hospital. in 2011 she became pregnant with her fourth child and had a due date in february 2012. she explained that her first three hospital deliveries had gone normally, without the need for much medical intervention, but that she had not felt fulfilled afterwards. it noted that home births nevertheless occurred in croatia, and for that reason it had urged the ministry of health to clearly regulate the matter as soon as possible. on 15 february 2012 the applicant gave birth to her child at home, assisted by a midwife from abroad. on 23 february 2012 the applicant registered the birth and obtained a birth certificate. on 11 may 2011 the ministry of health sent a letter in reply to an enquiry from the ombudswoman for children (pravobraniteljica za djecu), which stated that the relevant domestic law provided that babies were to be delivered in medical facilities. in the event of a delivery outside a medical facility and where a woman claiming to be the mother did not have any medical documentation, the doctor carrying out the first examination of the child was obliged to make note of the absence of such documents. the doctor was not allowed to register data which he or she was not able to verify. the medical documentation required for proving such circumstances was a matter for the health administration authorities. on 31 may 2012 the ministry of health replied to an enquiry from parents in action – roda ngo by saying that it had never instructed doctors not to examine children born at home. on the contrary, having regard to the increased frequency of situations in which doctors were faced with having to examine children born at home without any medical documentation, it had consistently held that doctors were obliged to examine such children but were not allowed to register any data that they were not able to verify. according to information submitted by the government, no health professional has ever been prosecuted in criminal proceedings or sanctioned for assisting with a home birth. a survey on maternity practices in croatia undertaken by the parents in action - roda ngo in march 2015 noted situations of women’s wishes being disregarded by medical staff during childbirth, of a lack of consent for procedures conducted during labour, and limits on the presence of an accompanying person during childbirth.
on 21 november 2016 the civil and criminal court (tribunale civile e penale) of rome decided to issue a warrant for the applicant’s arrest, as he was suspected of tax evasion, money laundering, embezzlement and membership of a transnational criminal organisation. the doctor concluded that there were no medical impediments to the applicant’s detention. in his opinion, his fragile state of health and considerable business interests in sint maarten opposed (a continuation of) his detention. the procurator general opposed suspension of the applicant’s detention, arguing that there was a high risk of absconding, given that the applicant was a wealthy businessman in whose home two identity cards from columbia and the dominican republic had been found during a search, and that he had use of a private jet in the united states of america. on 20 december 2016 the sint maarten prosecution authorities apparently decided to transfer the applicant from sint maarten to curaçao, another country within the kingdom of the netherlands. the applicant filed an appeal against that decision with the joint court. it noted that the applicant had not established that he was unable to receive adequate medical care in detention or that his business interests were at risk. no further appeal lay against that decision. lastly, the joint court saw no reason to grant the applicant bail. on this point, he submitted that for three months he had been staying in a cell measuring 16 square metres which he often had to share with five or sometimes even six other persons. he further submitted that the unhygienic circumstances had caused the infection diagnosed by the dentist on 13 march 2017. in addition, he found that the scar caused by the surgical removal of the malignancy on the applicant’s tongue could give cause for concern, and recommended that the applicant be seen by a specialist as soon as possible. having found that the extradition request complied with the applicable formal and material requirements, the joint court advised the governor (gouverneur) of sint maarten to proceed with the applicant’s extradition to italy. on 4 august 2017, after the applicant had withdrawn his appeal in cassation on 21 july 2017 without indicating any specific reason, the governor of sint maarten approved the applicant’s extradition. on 16 august 2017 the applicant was extradited to italy.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in kazan. in 1969 the shumelka river in tveretinovka, republic of tatarstan, was dammed and an artificial lake was created. the original owner of the plot of land that contained the lake was a state fur farm. in 2003 the fur farm sold the plot of land and the lake to a private limited liability company through a public sale by tender. the new owner’s title to the plot of land was registered in the state land register. on 5 may 2008 the company sold the land to the applicant through a public sale by tender. on 18 october 2011, following bankruptcy proceedings, the limited liability company was de-registered as a legal entity. on 29 march 2012 the regional agency for management of state property brought a civil action against the applicant, seeking to reclaim the plot of land and the lake. the court noted that, pursuant to the applicable legislation, the lake could not be owned by a private entity or a person and should be returned to the state. on 5 july 2012 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan quashed the judgment of 5 may 2012 on appeal and rejected the claims in full. the court considered that the district court had erred in the interpretation of the applicable legislation and that the plot of land with the lake could be owned by a private party. on 14 september 2012 the supreme court referred the matter for a review of points of law. she claimed that she had not been the owner of the plot of land. on 19 april 2013 the vakhitovskiy district court of kazan dismissed the applicant’s claims. it noted that the applicant had been the owner of the plot of land in 2011 and that the parties had not furnished any evidence to the contrary.
on 17 april 1936 the government of the union of soviet socialist republics (“the ussr”) entrusted the management of the network of recreational facilities for workers in the ussr to the union-wide central council of trade unions (“the union-wide council”), the central authority for the ussr’s official state-controlled trade unions. by a resolution of 29 november 1990 on the protection of sovereign property rights of the ukrainian ssr, the parliament of the ukrainian ssr ordered that until a law on privatisation (роздержавлення) of property was enacted, a moratorium on the state authorities making any change to the title to state property and owners thereof was to be introduced. on 23 december 1991 the local authorities registered upo. no such legislation has been adopted to date (see paragraph 40 below). 137/7), the higher arbitration court of ukraine (“the hacu”; in 2001 renamed “the higher commercial court of ukraine”, “the hccu”) rejected the claim. since the assets had not been transferred to the union-wide council, they were not covered by those resolutions. accordingly, upo had been founded lawfully, there was no basis for annulling its founding documents and the spfu’s allegation that it was the managing authority of upo’s assets was at odds with the law and the circumstances of the case. on 27 june 2000, at upo’s request, the local authorities registered its title to assets transferred to it in accordance with its founding documents. he argued, in particular, that the premises that had been sold were state property and had never been transferred from the state to upo’s ownership. the 2002 contract had thus breached state interests. furthermore, that judgment had not been in accordance with the supreme court’s findings in its decisions of 25 september 2007 and 16 september 2008, in which it had held that property transferred for free use under the resolution of 23 april 1960 had been state property (the parties did not provide copies of those decisions). it held that following a systematic analysis of various legal acts, including the law of 10 september 1991 and the resolutions of 10 april 1992 and 4 february 1994, there were no grounds to conclude that under the resolution of 23 april 1960 the state had transferred title to the disputed property to the trade unions. on 4 february 2015 the supreme court rejected its request. it referred, inter alia, to the resolution of 23 april 1960, the resolution of 29 november 1990 and the law of 10 september 1991, and stated that it did not follow from them that the transfer of property to the republican council had entailed a change in the state’s title to it. therefore, the sanatorium had been the property of a civic organisation of the former soviet union located on the territory of ukraine and, when upo had been created, the sanatorium had belonged to the state and could be alienated only with the state’s consent.
the applicants are a family comprising the husband and wife (the first and second applicants) and their child (the third applicant). they were born in 1976, 1978 and 2001 respectively and live in kayseri. on 9 august 2001, the second applicant was admitted to a state hospital in niğde. she gave birth to the third applicant who has irreversible injuries caused by an intervention performed by that hospital’s medical staff during labor. in their report of 12 may 2004, the forensic medicine institute concluded that the two members of the medical staff who tended to the labor were equally and solely at fault for the third applicant’s injuries. on 1 december 2004, the first and second applicants on their own and on behalf of the third applicant, submitted a claim to the ministry of health for compensation arising from the third applicant’s injuries. following the tacit dismissal of the claim by the administrative authorities, the applicants brought an action for damages before the konya administrative court on 2 february 2005. they claimed 30,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 100,000 in respect of non‑pecuniary damage. in the course of the proceedings, the domestic court decided proprio motu to seek an expert report to determine the amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicants. on 27 june 2006, the applicants requested to increase the amount of their claim for pecuniary damage in the light of the expert report. it further awarded them a total of try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and interest running from the date of the lawsuit. the applicants’ request to increase their claim for pecuniary damage were dismissed by the court which considered itself bound by the initial claim indicated by the applicants when they lodged their case. the applicants’ ensuing appeals were dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 16 june 2009 and 28 december 2010 respectively. on 22 january 2010, the ministry of health paid the applicants a total of try 144,144. approximately try 53,830 of that sum represented statutory interest accrued on the principal judgment award.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in adana. at the time of the events giving rise to the application, the applicant was a member of the socialist democracy party (sosyalist demokrasi partisi). according to a report prepared on the same day by the police, in his speech the applicant stated that the military forces should comply with the ceasefire declared by the pkk and that a general amnesty should be declared. he contended that people were being detained for referring to abdullah öcalan, the leader of the pkk, as “sayın (esteemed) öcalan” whereas the prime minister also referred to him as “sayın öcalan”. the applicant further stated that abdullah öcalan should not be kept in isolation in prison and that independent doctors should visit him. he lastly made the following statement:“do not fire but talk for resolving the kurdish issue”. the police report of 21 march 2007 further stated that subsequent to the applicant’s speech, songs with kurdish lyrics were played and some demonstrators waved pkk flags. on 6 april 2007 the adana public prosecutor asked two experts to prepare a report on the police video recordings of the celebrations of 21 march 2007. according to the report dated 16 april 2007 prepared by two persons, the demonstrators chanted certain slogans and waved flags and posters of abdullah öcalan from time to time during the celebrations. he relied on the police report of 21 march 2007, the police video recordings of the newroz celebrations and the expert report dated 16 april 2007. on an unspecified date the adana public prosecutor amended the charges against the applicant and asked the adana assize court to convict him of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk under section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no. on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicant under the aforementioned provision and sentenced him to ten months’ imprisonment. on 19 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008. on 11 january 2012 the applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 29 may 2012 the adana assize court granted the applicant early conditional release starting from 3 june 2012.
the applicants were born in 1949 and 1950, respectively, and lived in podgorica, where the second applicant still lives. on 25 july 2000 the applicants’ mother instituted civil proceedings against podgorička banka societe generale group ad podgorica (hereinafter “respondent”) seeking the payment of her savings, which she had deposited with the respondent’s legal predecessor titogradska osnovna banka titograd. on an unspecified date the applicants continued the above-mentioned proceedings in their mother’s stead as she had passed away in the meantime. on 25 july 2008 the first instance court in podgorica ruled partly in favour of the applicants. on 19 january 2010 the high court in podgorica reversed the first‑instance judgment by dismissing the applicants’ claims in their entirety. this judgment was upheld by the supreme court on 19 october 2010. on 5 december 2010 the supreme court’s judgment was served on the applicants. on 3 february 2011 the applicants lodged a constitutional appeal. on 12 april 2012 the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ appeal, which decision was served on the applicants on 29 may 2012.
under article 6 § 1 of the convention the applicants complained of the excessive length of enforcement proceedings. the circumstances of the cases as presented by the parties may be summarized as follows. on 26 december 2007, the čačak municipal court ruled in favour of the applicants. in the absence of an appeal, this judgment subsequently became final. on 27 august 2003 the sixth applicant lodged her civil complaint with the čačak municipal court against akcionarsko društvo fabrika reznog alata čačak requesting the payment of salary related damages. on 24 april 2008 the čačak municipal court ruled in favour of the sixth applicant. on 29 october 2008 the čačak district court upheld this judgment on appeal. on 9 april 2009 the seventh applicant lodged an enforcement request which was accepted by čačak municipal court on 4 february 2010. pursuant to the amendments to court organization act (zakon o izmenama i dopunama zakona o uređenju sudova; published in the official gazette of the republic of serbia, no. it, further, ordered the čačak court of first instance (osnovni sud u čačku), i.e. the former čačak municipal court, to speed up the enforcement proceedings and enforce the judgment rendered in the applicants’ favour. on 26 march 2015 the supreme court of cassation rejected the applicants’ appeals. on 2 december 2014 the čačak high court found that the sixth applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time had been violated and awarded her eur 300 in respect of the non-pecuniary damage suffered due to the length of the enforcement proceedings. her appeal to the supreme court of cassation concerning the amount of the compensation awarded was rejected on 6 may 2015. between 3 august 2015 and 30 december 2015 all applicants lodged new appeals with the constitutional court. however, the constitutional court rejected the applicants’ complaints concerning the insufficient redress as regards the violation of their right to a hearing within a reasonable time since it considered the awards given by the domestic courts as reasonable compensation for the violations found.
the applicants were born in 1957 and 1981 and live in diyarbakır and adana respectively. on 17 august 2006 the adana public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment with adana magistrate’s court charging the applicants and five other persons with praising an offence and an offender under article 215 of the criminal code. the public prosecutor alleged that the applicants had signed a petition in september 2005 which had been drafted in order to be sent to several institutions. the petition read as follows:“as a person from kurdistan, i consider and accept mr/esteemed abdullah öcalan of kurdistan as a political actor. 3713) proscribing disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation. the court then sent the file to adana assize court. on 24 march 2008 the adana assize court convicted the applicants of disseminating propaganda in favour of a terrorist organisation under section 7(2) of law no. 3713 and sentenced them each to two years’ imprisonment. in its judgment, the first-instance court found it established that the above-mentioned petition had been prepared for the purpose of disseminating propaganda in favour of the pkk and its leader and that by signing that petition the applicants had committed the offence proscribed in section 7(2) of law no. on 13 july 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of 24 march 2008. on 24 august 2011 the court of cassation’s judgment was deposited with the first instance court’s registry. on an unspecified date the second applicant started serving his prison sentence. on 19 october 2012 the adana assize court decided to suspend the execution of the applicants’ prison sentence in accordance with law no. 6352 which had entered into force on 5 july 2012 and which had amended certain provisions of law no. the suspension was for a period of three years, on condition that they did not commit an offence through the press, media or other methods of expressing ideas and opinions.
the first applicant (mr aristov) was born in 1986 and lives in moscow. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). the applicant did not resist the police officers, who gave no orders during his arrest. he applied to have the two police officers who had arrested him examined as witnesses. the court dismissed as unreliable the testimony of defence witnesses, who stated that he had not chanted any slogans in their presence and had not participated in breaking the cordon. according to the government, the second applicant was arrested at 8.10 p.m. at the bolotnaya square on 6 may 2012 because he was participating in breaking the police cordon and he had disregarded the police order to cease these acts and disperse. at the police station an on-duty officer drew up a record of his administrative escort at 9.10 p.m. for the purpose of compiling an administrative-offence record. the administrative case file contained two hand-written reports by police officers d. and s., who had arrested the second applicant on 6 may 2012. on 7 may 2012 the second applicant was brought before the justice of the peace of court circuit no. on 15 may 2012 the court decided to transfer the case owing to the lack of jurisdiction. on 14 august 2012 the justice of the peace of court circuit no. 114 of the luberetskiy court district of moscow region examined the charges against the second applicant. upon his application, the court questioned the applicant’s sister who was an eyewitness to his arrest. the court also questioned officers d. and s., who stated that after the end of the demonstration, at around 8 p.m. on 6 may 2012 the applicant, acting as part of a group of citizens, had broken the police cordon and begun the march towards red square. the town court dismissed the applicant’s allegations and considered that the statements of d. and s. about the applicant’s failure to obey their lawful demands to stop marching after the end of the event had been trustworthy.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1978 respectively and live in tikhoretsk, krasnodar region. k. and r. those officers established that b. could have been involved in the crime. on 18 april 2005 o., the investigator, replied that during his examinations as a suspect and as an accused the applicant had not complained that he had been subjected to ill-treatment by police officers. the applicant’s lawyer in a record dated 25 may 2005 noting his being granted access to the case file, stated, inter alia, that the applicant’s involvement in the crime had not been proven as the prosecution case had been based, inter alia, on the second applicant’s confession, which he had subsequently retracted as having been given under coercion. thereafter the police officers handcuffed him to a ladder at the police station. the applicant’s lawyer, d., stated in a record dated 23 may 2005 noting his being granted access to the case file that in the course of the preliminary investigation the applicant and d. had repeatedly complained that the applicant had been beaten on 26 and 27 january 2005 by police officers from the tikhoretsk police department, as a result of which he had given a statement of surrender and confession incriminating himself and his co‑accused. the decision referred to the official records of the investigative activities undertaken and statements made by o., k. and r., which denied any ill-treatment of the applicants. k. and r. had subjected him to physical and psychological pressure, as a result of which he had made a confession in relation to a crime that he had not in fact committed. the court ordered that an additional inquiry be carried out before the next hearing on 2 august 2005. eight further decisions taken by investigators refusing to open a criminal case between 27 march 2007 and 6 january 2008 were annulled on the grounds that they were unlawful and had been based on an incomplete inquiry. he had had a bruise on the face and had been limping. they had again come at 7.30 a.m. on 26 january 2005, shown their service identity cards and asked about the applicant’s whereabouts. when she had gone to the applicant’s place of work she had been told that the applicant had been taken away by two men matching the description of k. and r. from 26 until 28 january 2005 she had called the tikhoretsk police department many times but had been told that the applicant was not there. on 28 january 2005 she had gone to the tikhoretsk police department to enquire about the applicant’s whereabouts, and had been informed by o., the investigator, that the applicant was suspected of having committed a murder. by decisions of 5 june, 2 august, 13 september and 22 october 2008 the criminal proceedings were suspended for failure to identify any person to be charged with an offence.
the applicants were owners of plots of land. the details pertaining to each application are provided below. the applicant in this case is oleg dmitriyevich sergunin, who was born on 10 december 1967 and lives in kazan. on 5 july 2013 a prosecutor acting on behalf of the local council brought an action seeking invalidation of the decision of the local council of 5 september 2009, invalidation of the applicant’s title to the plot of land and return of the plot of land to the municipality. on 17 october 2013 the district court granted the claims in full. on 23 january 2014 the supreme court of the republic of tatarstan upheld the judgment of 17 october 2013 on appeal. on 30 may 2014 the supreme court of the russian federation rejected a second appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant. on 3 december 2009 the applicant bought a plot of land and a share in another plot of land in sloboda solomintsy, kirov, from s. and t. respectively. the state land registry verified the legitimacy of the transaction and registered the applicant’s title to the plots of land. on an unspecified date the district prosecutor brought an action on behalf of the kirov city council with the aim of reclaiming the real property. on 14 may 2014 the novovyatskiy district court of kirov delivered two judgments, allowing the prosecutor’s claims in full. the court recognised the town’s title to the plots of land and ordered their transfer to the town administration. on 15 and 23 july 2014 the kirov regional court upheld the judgments of 14 may 2014 on appeal. the applicant in this case is sergey vasilyevich prokudin who was born on 19 october 1958 and lives in kirov. and r. had been forged and could not have served as a legal basis for the transactions in respect of the plots of land.
the applicant was born in 1972 and now lives in odessa, ukraine. on 31 january 2014 the applicant sold a plot of land and a summer cottage in the moscow region for 4,600,000 russian roubles (rub). on 19 march 2014 the applicant travelled to odessa from domodedovo airport in moscow. he was carrying the entire usd 100,000 in his handbag. at the security check, his hand luggage was x-rayed. an officer asked him whether he was carrying any cash. the applicant acknowledged that he had money in his handbag and showed it to the officer. the applicant was subsequently interviewed by a police officer and an investigator on suspicion of smuggling foreign currency. he insisted on the lawful origin of the money and claimed that he had erroneously believed that the customs control would take place after the security check. on 18 april 2014 the investigator refused to initiate criminal proceedings because it could not be established that the applicant had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations. on 6 june 2014 the federal customs service prepared a report on a regulatory customs offence under article 16.4 of the code of administrative offences. a hearing was held on 18 december 2014 before a justice of the peace in the domodedovo district of the moscow region. the court held that the customs report and statements the applicant had given to the police were sufficient evidence of the offence. it was legally irrelevant whether he had deliberately sought to circumvent customs regulations or negligently failed to abide by the applicable declaration requirements. the court issued a confiscation order for usd 90,000, reasoning as follows:“when deciding on the punishment, the court takes into account the nature and gravity of the offence which is connected to the operation of a hazardous device, the information on the character of mr gyrlyan, who has no previous record of similar offences, and considers it appropriate to order confiscation of the object of the administrative offence.”
the applicants, suren osmanyan, serob osmanyan, bakur osmanyan, mane osmanyan and donara amiraghyan were born in 1935, 1961, 1988, 1990 and 1966 respectively and live in teghout village. the applicants are a family of five, making their living from agriculture. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. the remainder of the data contained in the original report had not been changed. on 27 february 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 2 june 2009 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the evaluation reports prepared by oliver group llc should be considered lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs and that the applicants’ request to order a forensic expert examination was groundless. also, they argued that the regional court should have exercised its statutory discretion to order an expert examination since such a necessity had arisen in the course of the proceedings and they had no possibility to provide an alternative evaluation themselves. the case was remitted to the regional court. on 12 august 2010 expert g. of the “expertise centre”, a state nonprofit organisation, delivered a report according to which the market value of the property was estimated to be amd 230,000 (approximately eur 500). there were four peach trees on the land in question. the report also stated that the first expert report and the evaluation report by oliver group cjsc had produced quite realistic results. as regards the applicants’ arguments concerning the fruit trees, the civil court of appeal stated that both experts appointed by the regional court had recorded that there were only four fruit trees on the plot of land while expert a. had stated in his report that the trees in question could not have a significant bearing on the market value of the land. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. they raised similar complaints to those raised before the court of appeal.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ostia lido. began treatment with feminising hormones as part of the gender transition process. on 9 november 2000 she applied to the rome district court on the basis of section 3 of law no. 164 of 1982, stating that she wished to complete the transition process by permanently changing her primary sexual characteristics, and sought authorisation to undergo gender reassignment surgery. having taken note of her determination the court authorised her to undergo surgery in order to adapt her primary sexual characteristics to match her female gender identity. she also asserted that the waiting period for surgery was approximately four years. in a decision of 4 july 2001 the prefect refused the applicant’s request on the grounds that, under presidential decree no. 396 of 2000, a person’s forename had to correspond to his or her gender. on 23 july 2001 the applicant underwent mammoplasty. on 3 february 2003, while the proceedings before the regional administrative court were still pending on the merits, the applicant underwent an operation to change her sexual characteristics from male to female. she subsequently applied to the rome district court, on an unspecified date, for legal recognition of her gender reassignment under section 3 of law no. by a judgment of 6 march 2008, deposited with the registry on 17 may 2008, the regional administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the prefect’s decision of 4 july 2001. 164 of 1982 concerning changes to legal gender status. the court stressed in that regard that, under the terms of the latter, the amendment of the civil-status records of a transgender person had to be ordered by the court ruling on his or her gender reassignment. the applicant did not appeal against that judgment.
the applicants, listed in the appendix, were all professors who at the material time were working at tbilisi state university (“the university”). stressed that the participants of the planned gathering were asked to maintain order and to conclude the meeting before 7 p.m. 12. the applicants alleged that at around 11 p.m. the police had closed the doors of the lecture hall and prevented the people inside from leaving it. the staff members (eyewitnesses to the events) all identified the applicants as being among those who had forced their way into the rector’s office, insulted him and demanded his resignation. on 24 july 2006 several members of the former grand academic council, among them the second, third, fourth, fifth and seventh applicants, sent a letter to the president of georgia complaining about the events of 19‑20 june and 3-4 july 2006. a copy of the above-mentioned letter was sent to the prosecutor general of georgia. on 29 july 2006 the relevant prosecutor issued a ruling terminating the criminal proceedings concerning the alleged organisation and participation in group actions violating public order. the prosecutor, for his part, requested the questioning of three of the police officers involved in the events that had developed in the rector’s office on 3 july 2006. they tried to put to the prosecutor several questions in this regard but the presiding judge dismissed the questions as irrelevant, having no bearing on the case. in reply to a question he clarified that no one had physically resisted the police, but that the protesters had simply refused to leave the office. on the same date the court examined two members of the university staff, who gave evidence similar to their pre-trial statements (see paragraph 18 above). as well as the other staff present, and to “other similar action” that had violated public order and peace. the tbilisi city court dismissed the applicants’ argument that the rector’s office was merely a private working space, reasoning that the presence of the public rendered it a public space for the purposes of the cao. as was shown in imedi’s recording of the events of 3 july 2006, at least twenty people had entered the reception area of the acting rector’s office by force, in disregard of the protests of the security staff and reception staff. of the decision of the grand academic council and demanding his resignation.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in bucharest. during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest, on 21 december 1989, the applicant suffered injuries caused by impingement and compression, as a result of which she needed 50 days of medical care, her life not being imperilled. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. as regards the applicant, an investigation was opened under a separate file and she gave a statement as a witness on 23 june 1994. her case has been further examined at a later date in the main criminal investigation. the most important procedural steps were described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011), and also in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. 889/15 and 38 others, §§ 8-11, 5 june 2018). subsequent relevant domestic decisions are referred to below. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main investigation, finding that the complaint regarding the offence of attempted homicide committed against the applicant was statute-barred. this decision was annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. it was noted that the investigation under file no. 11/p/2014 was incomplete and that the facts could not be established based on the evidence gathered up to that date. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances. at the date of the latest information available to the court (see sidea and others, cited above, § 11), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in vilnius. on 7 may 2009 the applicant was charged with the relevant offences. on 22 july 2011 the vilnius regional court held that the legal classification of the charges against the applicant was incorrect, because the total value of the allegedly embezzled property was not high. the court reclassified the charges on the basis of a less serious offence, held that the prosecution had become time-barred and discontinued the proceedings. on 27 october 2011 the court of appeal quashed the decision and remitted the case to the vilnius regional court. after re-examining the case, on 10 june 2013 the vilnius regional court found the applicant guilty of the charges against her. she was given a fine of 12,000 lithuanian litai (ltl) (approximately 3,475 euros (eur)). she was also ordered to pay some of the damages claimed by a company, amounting to ltl 2,800 (approximately eur 810). the applicant lodged an appeal, but on 18 october 2013 the court of appeal dismissed it and upheld the lower court’s judgment in its entirety. on 7 january 2014 the applicant submitted an appeal on points of law to the supreme court. on 17 february 2014 a selection panel of three judges refused to examine the appeal, on the basis that it did not comply with article 368 § 2 and article 369 of the code of criminal procedure (hereinafter “the ccp”) (see paragraphs 15 and 16 below). the chair of the selection panel, judge v.g., who had been the prosecutor in the case against the applicant before the first-instance and the appellate courts. the supreme court consists of two divisions: civil and criminal. the criminal division has sixteen judges in it.
the first applicant company, könyv-tár kft, is a limited liability company with its registered office in budapest. the applicant companies are schoolbook distributors. the schools, formerly decentralised, became subject to centralised state management. the essence of the new legislation was already contained in the first amendment, published in december 2011. most of the companies dealing with the distribution of schoolbooks leased warehouses and delivery vehicles for a two-to-four-month period when performing their activities, which were predominantly seasonal in nature. besides their regular staff, ranging from three to fifty-seven employees, they employed an additional ten to thirty seasonal workers, normally students, for the compilation of schoolbook packages. larger market participants generally had their own vehicles and storage bases where they performed both retail and wholesale activities. these companies bought the books from the publishers and made them available to the smaller distributors. the first applicant, könyv-tár kft, distributed educational materials for elementary and secondary schools. a description of the objectives pursued gave the following reasons for the decision:“to strengthen the schoolbook procurer’s position through the uniform and centralised procurement of schoolbooks ... and ... to make schoolbook distribution more transparent by generating competition in a stronger position, that of the procurer.” the applicant companies submitted that the new regulations had centralised and monopolised the schoolbook distribution market with a guaranteed margin of 20% for the state-owned schoolbook distributor, without providing any compensation for former market participants, including themselves. ccxxxii of 2013 on schoolbook supply in the national public education system, had been enacted, and had entered into force on 1 january 2014. xxxvii of 2001 on the schoolbook market entirely, including the impugned new regulations. ccxxxii of 2013 had completely removed any schoolbook distribution based on the free market, and had introduced an entirely state-organised form of schoolbook supply to the hungarian public education system. the applicant companies did not file a constitutional complaint against act no.
the first applicant, mr tamašauskas, was born in 1971. the second applicant, mr radzevičius, was born in 1977. the first applicant was detained in šiauliai remand prison from 28 september 2012 until 4 september 2014. on an unspecified date he lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he had been detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he claimed 48,493 euros (eur) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 9 january 2015 the šiauliai regional administrative court allowed in part the applicant’s claim. during those 629 days, he had between 1.72 and 16.96 sq. m, under the domestic law applicable to prison cells) might have been breached. however, the court dismissed the applicant’s allegations that the conditions in the cells had been unsanitary on the basis of reports submitted by domestic public healthcare authorities. the applicant lodged an appeal against that decision, but on 6 october 2015 the supreme administrative court dismissed his appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision in its entirety. the second applicant was detained in alytus correctional facility from 22 november 2012 until 17 september 2014. m of personal space, and that from 11 april 2013 to 13 august 2014 he had had 3.03 sq. during the remainder of his detention the personal space available to the applicant had complied with the domestic requirements. however, it observed that the administration of the correctional facility had not submitted any documents refuting the applicant’s allegation that the natural light in the rooms had been insufficient, and found in the applicant’s favour. however, the court considered that the reduction in the minimum personal space available to the applicant had been minor and that it had been compensated for by his ability to move freely around the correctional facility and by the various leisure activities available there.
the applicants were born in 1968, 1960, 1966, 1962, 1959, 1955 and 1954, respectively, and live in novi travnik and bugojno, bosnia and herzegovina. by seven judgments of the travnik municipal court and the bugojno municipal court, of 19 january 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 28 october 2011, 2 february 2009, 1 september 2009 and 9 april 2004, respectively, the applicants’ employers, two companies manufacturing weapons and military technology, were ordered to pay them various sums in respect of unpaid work-related benefits together with default interest at the statutory rate and legal costs. the judgments became final on 24 august 2007, 15 may 2008, 19 january 2006, 26 november 2011, 20 august 2009, 13 october 2009 and 13 april 2005, respectively. the applicants’ winding-up petitions were rejected on 27 may 2010 and 14 february 2011, respectively, because the federal ministry of energy had refused authorisation (see paragraph 14 below). consequently, in accordance with the 2003 insolvency act, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina became liable for the debts of the applicants’ employers (see paragraph 14 below). the sarajevo municipal court issued enforcement orders on 9 november 2011, 21 february 2012, 17 april 2012, 25 april 2012, 5 july 2012, 27 march 2012 and 9 august 2012, respectively, in which the federation of bosnia and herzegovina was designated as a debtor. they were transferred to the competent bank and were listed among the charges in the federal budget. on several occasions thereafter the bank informed the competent courts that the enforcement was not possible because the budgetary funds intended for that purpose had already been spent. the applicants complained of the non-enforcement to the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the constitutional court”). ap 2892/13) the constitutional court found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention and article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention in the applicants’ cases on account of the prolonged non-enforcement of the final judgments in their favour. it ordered the government of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina to take the necessary steps in order to secure the payment of its debt arising from the final judgments within a reasonable time. although the applicants submitted a claim for non-pecuniary damages, the constitutional court did not award any compensation. on the following dates in 2017 the final judgments in the applicants’ favour were fully enforced:(i) on 10 january 2017 in respect of mr mujo zahirović;(ii) on 9 january 2017 in respect of ms nedžvija mandara;(iii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr miralem mustajbegović;(iv) on 17 january 2017 in respect of mr nihad hrnjica;(v) on 11 january 2017 in respect of mr zijad džugum;(vi) on 17 january 2017 in respect of ms đevada hodžić; and(vii) on 13 april 2017 in respect of mr fadil pandžo. the payments made in the applicants’ favour included the reimbursement of the costs sustained for the enforcement procedure.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lived in kalvarija. who had also been questioned as a suspect earlier. as well as for those who were responsible for their disappearance. had been sought in medical establishments. consisted of witness testimony, including the testimony of two witnesses who agreed to testify on the condition that they could do so anonymously, as well as the secret surveillance of another witness who had misled the investigators in 1994 (see paragraph 10 above). on 16 august 2005 the prosecutor general’s office issued a european arrest warrant in respect of a.g. in response to a request by the applicant of 12 june 2006, on 19 september 2006 a prosecutor granted her civil claimant (civilinis ieškovas) status in the case regarding her son’s murder. on 22 november 2006 the court of appeal ordered a.g. his wife had also later taken his passport to the prosecutor, which, according to the court of appeal, showed that he had not been hiding that document. moreover, between june 2005 and february 2006 – the period which the prosecutor referred to as the period when a.g. had taken part in an unrelated court hearing in lithuania and had also crossed the lithuanian state border a number of times. she asked the court to rely on her earlier testimony given at the stage of the pre-trial investigation. under article 105 § 2 (2 and 5) of the old criminal code (see paragraph 49 below). as the documents before the court show, on 11 december 2012 the police established that a.g. according to the information provided by the government in 2017, a.g.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in bucharest. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, refer to the same context and domestic criminal proceedings as those described in the case association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime, on the night of 21/22 december 1989 the applicant’s son was killed by gunfire in bucharest. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened several investigations into the december 1989 armed crackdown on the anti-communism demonstrations. a main criminal investigation concerning the use of violence against civilians in bucharest and other cities was registered with the highest prosecutor’s office – the military prosecutors section − under no. in the main criminal investigation the applicant raised civil claims and asked that the perpetrators of the offence of homicide committed against her son be identified and punished. at the same time, another investigation concerning the offences of complicity in seriously aggravated homicide and complicity in attempted seriously aggravated homicide, committed against a large number of persons, including the applicant’s son, culminated in the committal for trial of public officials, members of the ruling political party, and their subsequent conviction by a final decision of the supreme court of justice of 20 april 1992. the relevant procedural steps taken in the main criminal investigation were described in the cases association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. on 14 october 2015 the military prosecutor’s office closed the main criminal investigation, finding that the applicant’s complaint regarding the offence of homicide committed against her son was statute-barred and that a complaint concerning instigation of homicide was a matter of res judicata following the supreme court of justice’s decision of 20 april 1992 (see paragraph 8 above). the decision of 14 october 2015 was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the opening of a criminal investigation in rem for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same factual circumstances. according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu v. romania [committee], nos. 64752/13 and 54607/14, § 12, 3 july 2018).
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in the case of association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). all applicants were ill-treated and injured on the night of 21⁄22 december 1989 during the events which led to the fall of the communist regime in bucharest. 30392/15 (vasu v. romania) suffered injuries that needed twenty-two days of medical care and the other two applicants were beaten by militia forces on the same occasion. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s office opened, of its own motion, investigations into the illegal detention, ill-treatment and injury suffered by the applicants and other participants in the events of december 1989 in respect of several offences as mentioned below. the main criminal investigation was recorded in file no. 30365/15, hereinafter “the first applicant”), 9 march 1994 (mr traian vasu – applicant in application no. 30410/15, hereinafter “the third applicant”) not to open a separate investigation of its own motion on the grounds that the offence of improper conduct fell under a subsequently enacted amnesty law; that decision was communicated only to the third applicant on 25 september 2008. no decision was adopted in respect of the applicants’ injury. further, without a formal decision to overturn the decisions issued by the military prosecutor’s office (see paragraph 8 above) and to reopen the applicants’ respective cases, in the main criminal investigation, the prosecutor heard evidence from the applicants, who reiterated their complaints regarding the offences of illegal deprivation of liberty and assault and battery, based on their ill-treatment and injuries during the events of december 1989. the second applicant gave statements as an injured party on 7 january 2000 and 23 november 2004. the third applicant raised civil claims on 25 september 2008 and requested that the persons responsible be identified and committed to stand trial. no decision was adopted with respect to the injury and assault and battery complained of by the applicants. the decision of 14 october 2015 (see paragraph 11 above) was subsequently annulled by a prosecutor general’s decision of 5 april 2016, confirmed by the high court of cassation and justice on 13 june 2016. according to the information submitted by the parties, the main criminal investigation is still ongoing (see bănuțoiu and ștefoglu, cited above, § 12).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in vienna (austria). the applicant is a businessman associated with a major austrian financial and industrial group. in the context of this investigation, the austrian prosecution service asked their slovakian counterparts to search the above-mentioned premises and to seize documents relevant to the investigation. on 27 february 2012 the pps summoned the applicant’s lawyer to its premises on 7 march 2012 with a view to restoring the above-mentioned possessions to the applicant. accordingly, he had had no possibility of being present in person. moreover, it was protected from seizure by lawyer-client privilege. there was no duty to return all of the items at once. the re-seizure complied with all the requirements under the applicable statute and the relevant international rules and as such was lawful and justified. had he manifested any wish to do so, this would have been taken into account. accordingly, he could not complain of being unable to defend his rights and interests adequately in relation to the re‑seizure. on 11 march 2013 the applicant lodged a fresh complaint under article 127 of the constitution, arguing that by failing to ensure full compliance with the constitutional court’s judgment of 7 december 2010 and seizing the restored items again, the slovakian authorities had been responsible for a violation of a number of his rights, including respect for his private life and correspondence and the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions and of failing to provide an effective remedy. in substance, he advanced similar arguments to those mentioned above, including, in particular, that the items that had been seized again contained legal advice protected from seizure by lawyer-client privilege. on 16 may 2013 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. in the pertinent part of its decision, it quoted extensively from the letter of the office of the prosecutor general of 31 december 2012, pointed out that its task was to review the constitutionality but not the legality as such of the challenged decisions, and found no constitutionally relevant arbitrariness or other shortcoming in the position the pps had taken in his case. on 18 april 2012 the constitutional court declared inadmissible a complaint by which the applicant’s then lawyer had challenged in his own name the re-seizure of 7 march 2012.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in moscow. in support of her claim she submitted a copy of her birth certificate. the city authorities registered m.’s title to the flat in the state land register. on 19 may 2009 an unidentified person posing as m. sold the flat to the applicant. according to the documents submitted by the applicant, the purchase price was 6,499,999 russian roubles (rub). the city authorities registered the sale of the flat and the applicant’s title to it in the state land register. on an unspecified date the police opened a criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat. it was established that the document presented to the notary as m.’s birth certificate had been forged. on 1 december 2009 the housing department brought an action seeking the transfer of the applicant’s flat to the city of moscow (“the city”). on 27 december 2010 the presnenskiy district court of moscow allowed the housing department’s action. it reasoned that m. had died intestate with no surviving kin and that her flat should have been considered bona vacantia. following an appeal by the applicant, on 14 july 2011 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 27 december 2010. on an unspecified date the judgments of 27 december 2010 and 14 july 2011 were enforced. subsequently the city of moscow sold the flat to a private party under a social assistance scheme that permitted the buyer to pay the purchase price in instalments. on 12 october 2017 the criminal investigation into the fraudulent acquisition of the flat was reopened.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in sunzha, ingushetia. on the second occasion, the search had been conducted at 3 a.m. and the applicant and his family had been requested to present their passports. the armed men pointed the guns at them and ordered them to stand up against a wall. she had been unable to see the model of the fourth vehicle. on 29 october 2009 mr ibragim makhloyev underwent a medical examination which confirmed that he had sustained bodily injuries. the applicant has had no news of mr maskhud makhloyev since his abduction. an on-site investigation was conducted on the same day. on 15 november 2009 the applicant’s third son, a.m., and a daughter, r.m., on the same day the investigator in charge of the case applied for judicial authorisation of access to all call logs for the night of 28 to 29 october 2009 kept by mobile-phone providers operating in the area. on 19 november 2009 the fss informed the prosecutor’s office that they had not arrested mr maskhud makhloyev and had not carried out any special operations at the applicant’s family house (see paragraph 23 above). it would appear that no relevant information was gathered from the inspection of the call logs. between 3 march and 15 june 2010 several of the applicant’s neighbours were questioned as witnesses. on 5 april 2010 the prosecutor’s office requested a copy of the case file and medical documentation concerning the incident of 14 august 2009 (see paragraph 12 above) from the ministry of the interior of ingushetia. it would appear that those instructions were not carried out. on 3 march 2010 mr ibragim makhloyev was questioned again.
the first applicant was born in 1975 and lives in moscow. the second applicant was born in 1960 and lives in irkutsk. on 20 february 2009, the first applicant, a lawyer at the time, was elected to be a member of the council of the irkutsk regional bar (“the bar”). five members of the council voted for s. and the other five voted for the second applicant. the court granted their request to enjoin the second applicant from fulfilling the functions of acting president pending the outcome of the proceedings. on 19 january 2012 the commercial court discontinued the proceedings. the final decision on the matter was taken by the supreme commercial court on 26 september 2012. on 11 february, 2 march and 5 april 2011 several members of the bar, including the applicants, lodged complaints with the president of the commercial court of the irkutsk region, to the supreme commercial court of the russian federation and to the supreme judicial qualifications board, alleging that judge r. had acted in contravention of the applicable laws on jurisdiction when she had accepted the claims concerning the second applicant’s appointment to the office of president of the bar for consideration. they sent a copy of their complaint to the president of the supreme commercial court and to the public anticorruption committee. on 18 july 2011 the first deputy of the president of the regional commercial court informed the plaintiffs that their allegations had not been confirmed by the conducted investigation. on 31 october 2011 the council of the bar disbarred the first applicant. the council concluded that (1)  the first applicant had violated the relevant legislation and the code of professional conduct for lawyers (кодекс профессиональной этики адвоката); (2)  the dissemination of information damaging the reputation and goodwill of judges and lawyers was incompatible with membership of the bar; (3)  the first applicant’s conduct had disparaged the bar and its members. on 8 december 2011 the kirovskiy district court of irkutsk dismissed a complaint lodged by the first applicant against the decision of 31 october 2011. the reasons underlying the council’s decision were identical to the one used in the first applicant’s case. on 19 april 2012 the irkutsk regional court upheld the judgment of 27 december 2011 on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in yerevan. on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate, mr ter-petrosyan. on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police, causing mass protests throughout yerevan. on 8 march 2008 the applicant was summoned to a local police station in abovyan where he was questioned about the leaflets that he had prepared and distributed among the demonstrators during the rallies. on 11 march 2008 the applicant was charged with organising mass disorder and an attempt to usurp state power. on the same date the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan (the district court) ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 8 may 2008, taking into account the nature and the gravity of the imputed offence and the severity of the punishment prescribed for it. by the same decision the district court refused the applicant’s request to be released on bail. on 14 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that the investigating authority had not presented any evidence to substantiate the need for his detention. furthermore, it was unacceptable to release the applicant on bail in view of the fact that, if at large, the applicant could abscond, obstruct the proceedings, commit another offence, evade responsibility and punishment, and continue to breach public order. as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient to justify lifting the detention order. on 4 may, 2 july, 3 september and 30 october 2008 the district court extended the applicant’s detention on the same grounds, on each occasion by two months. on 10 december 2008 the trial court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged. on 22 june 2009 the district court found the applicant guilty of making public calls inciting a violent overthrow of the government, and imposed a two-year sentence. it further decided to absolve the applicant from serving his sentence under a general amnesty declared by the armenian parliament on 19 june 2009. the applicant was immediately released from detention.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in jrvezh. on 19 february 2008 a presidential election was held in armenia, which was followed by daily protest rallies held at yerevan’s freedom square from 20 february onwards by the supporters of the main opposition candidate. on 1 march 2008 the assembly at freedom square was dispersed by the police. the applicant, who was present at freedom square at that time, was arrested and later charged under article 316 § 1 of the criminal code (cc) with assaulting police officers. on 4 march 2008 the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention for a period of two months, namely until 1 may 2008, on the ground that the applicant, if at large, might abscond and obstruct the investigation by exerting unlawful influence on the persons involved in the criminal proceedings. on 10 march 2008 the applicant lodged an appeal, arguing that there was no evidence to substantiate the need for his detention. he was a former high-ranking police officer and a law-abiding citizen who enjoyed trust and respect in society. on 21 march 2008 the criminal court of appeal dismissed the appeal, finding that the fact that the applicant was accused of a grave offence punishable by up to ten years’ imprisonment increased the probability of his evading criminal liability and punishment and was sufficient to conclude that the applicant, if at large, might commit a new offence. as to the applicant’s good character, mentioned by him in his appeal, this was not sufficient for lifting the detention order. on 29 april 2008 the indictment was finalised and the applicant’s case was sent to court for trial. the applicant remained in detention by virtue of article 138 § 3 of the code of criminal procedure (ccp). on 13 may 2008 the district court decided to set the case down for trial, ruling in the same decision that the applicant’s detention was to remain unchanged. on 11 june 2008 the district court found the applicant guilty under article 316 § 1 of the cc of assaulting police officers and sentenced him to a suspended term of one and a half years’ imprisonment.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in łatanice. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. the applicant was detained in kielce remand centre from 6 september to 4 october 2012 (28 days). the applicant submitted that throughout his detention in kielce remand centre, he had been held in overcrowded cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m². in their observations, the government admitted that the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell. however, they emphasised that the space in each cell had exceeded 2 m² per person and that the hardship caused by staying in an overcrowded cell had been compensated by adding 30 minutes to his daily walk as well as additional cultural and educational classes or sports activities. in the course of civil proceedings instituted by the applicant, the domestic courts established that for twenty-eight days the applicant had been detained in an overcrowded cell (see also paragraph 13 below). regarding the conditions of detention, the domestic courts established that the overall conditions in cells were adequate. cells were equipped in compliance with the relevant law; they were properly ventilated and the toilet area had been separated from the rest of the living space in the cells. on 12 august 2013 the applicant brought a civil action against the state treasury for infringement of his personal rights and for compensation on account of his detention in overcrowded cells in various penitentiary facilities. he claimed 35,000 polish zlotys (approximately 8,750 euros) in just satisfaction. on 28 may 2014 the warsaw regional court (sąd okręgowy) dismissed the applicant’s action. it confirmed, however, that temporarily (from 6 september to 4 october 2012) the applicant had been detained in cells in which the space per person had been below the polish statutory minimum standard of 3 m², but not below 2 m². on 1 april 2015 the warsaw court of appeal (sąd apelacyjny) dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1988 and is currently detained in warsaw służewiec remand centre. on 26 november 2010 the applicant was arrested by the police. on 27 november 2010 the warsaw wola district prosecutor (prokurator rejonowy) charged the applicant with possession of a significant amount of drugs and requested that the warsaw wola district court (sąd rejonowy) detain him on remand. the court applied this measure due to the high probability that the applicant had committed the offence with which he was charged, the severity of the maximum sentence provided by law for such offence (up to at least eight years’ imprisonment) and the fact that the likelihood of such a penalty might induce the applicant to obstruct the proceedings, as well as the fear that the applicant might influence other persons to present a version of events favourable to him. on 22 august 2011 the warsaw regional court again extended the applicant’s detention on remand. it listed the charges against the applicant, which included, apart from those mentioned above, battery, making a profit from prostitution of others and destroying property. it also pointed out that, while at large, the applicant might hinder the investigation concerning other members of the same gang. on 16 september 2011 a bill of indictment against the applicant and fourteen other persons was lodged with the warsaw regional court (xviii k 297/11). in the meantime, the warsaw regional court extended the applicant’s detention on remand on 13 march, 4 july and 20 september 2012. the court relied on a high probability that the applicant and other accused had committed the offences with which they had been charged and on the complexity of the case. the applicant’s appeals against those decisions were unsuccessful. his numerous requests for release, including on bail, were dismissed. on 4 march 2016 the warsaw regional court gave judgment. the applicant was convicted of multiple offences and sentenced to six years’ imprisonment and to a fine of 8,000 polish zlotys (pln) (approximately 1,850 euros (eur)). on the same date the applicant’s detention on remand was lifted.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in weinheim. as part of the debate the catholic bishop f. voiced criticism of human embryonic stem-cell research and a group of scientists at the university of bonn responded to that criticism. he claimed that he had never wished to imply that there had been any link between stem-cell research and the ideological and historical context of the crimes committed by the dehumanising nazi system, which should not be relativised through comparison. on 18 december 2007, the applicant issued a press release for his initiative never again! ( stem-cell research in germany” (getroffene hunde bellen! the professors appear to have forgotten that these experiments were performed in nazi times by willing doctors and scientists. the present-day research takes place at an earlier stage of human life. do the professors want to determine humans’ right to life on the basis of how useful they are? the professors can spin it any way they want. dr b. [name abbreviated by the court], were absolutely accurate. dr b uses embryos – people – for research purposes at the university of bonn that were murdered in israel and then sold to germany for significant sums of money. nowadays, the unborn children of people who follow the religion of moses – the jews – are murdered and sold to the ‘christian’ country of germany for research purposes, all with the blessing of both israel and germany! nonetheless, the court stated that freedom of expression was not granted unconditionally and could be subject to restrictions with a view to protecting, inter alia, the right to personal honour. when examining contributions to a debate of public interest, however, there had to be a presumption in favour of freedom of speech. dr b. by name had been equivalent to linking his professional conduct to the atrocities committed by the nazis.
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in limay. on 24 september 2008 the société générale bank lodged a criminal complaint against a person or persons unknown for forgery, uttering forged documents, and fraud, following complaints by mr nicolas sarkozy, the then president of france, about four fraudulent payments to mobile telephone companies from his bank account for a total amount of 176 euros (eur). on 25 september 2008 the preliminary investigation was entrusted jointly to the fraud squad and the serious crime squad. during the judicial investigation mr sarkozy applied to join the proceedings as a civil party. they were accused of having obtained 148 telephone lines, mobile telephones and the payment of subscriptions using the references of payment cards and bank accounts belonging to a third party. it held that mr sarkozy’s application to join the proceedings as a civil party was admissible on the basis of his right of access to a court, but deferred its decision on his claim for damages until the expiry of a one-month period after the end of his term as president (see article 67 of the constitution, paragraph 17 below). in a judgment of 8 january 2010 the versailles court of appeal varied the judgment and sentenced the applicant to eight months’ imprisonment. it found the applicant guilty, based on his own confessions and the statements of other defendants, together with the material discovered during searches. on the second point, many civil or criminal courts, in particular in press-related matters, have, on many occasions, admitted proceedings brought by the serving president of the republic, who in that capacity is also chair of the national legal service commission, without at any time considering that he was in any way contravening his constitutional duties.” the court of appeal further sought to ascertain whether the impartiality of the tribunal could also be called into question in the light of the theory of appearances. moreover, ... article 64 of the constitution states ... that the president is the guarantor of the judicial authority, and this provision legitimises, at the highest level of the hierarchy of legal norms – and even when the president of the republic is a party to the proceedings – his powers over the public prosecutor’s office, while also ruling out any doubt as to the independence of the judiciary ... [the applicant] cannot dispute the president’s capacity to act as an ordinary citizen. in a judgment of 10 november 2010 (bull crim., however, in the advocate-general’s view, the president’s power to appoint judges and prosecutors was such as to cast doubt on the objective impartiality of any private disputes to which the president might be a party during his term of office. fourthly, the judgment finds in precise terms that the guarantee of the right to an independent and impartial tribunal, under article 6 § 1 of the convention, applies only to judges and not to the prosecution. in a judgment of 24 january 2014 the versailles court of appeal set aside the applicant’s sentence, replacing it with a suspended term of ten months’ imprisonment.
the first applicant, mr s., was born in 1989. they were familiar with members of local football factions. the applicants argued that they had not been involved in any altercations; nor had they had any such intention. they had seen the first large fight between danish and swedish hooligans at around 3.40 p.m. the fight had occurred in the central part of strøget, the pedestrian shopping street, outside bar d, where the swedish group had settled down. he did not know the number of persons involved directly in the fight, but had understood from local reports that there were about fifty or sixty persons on either side. the control room team had included an investigator who had had regular contact with the bellahøj police station regarding the detentions. stated:“... that he had participated as a member of a special patrol in the police action in copenhagen on 10 october 2009 in connection with the international match. among the people they had seen were [the first and second applicants]. [ there had been a good atmosphere, and no violence. when the group from the bar was being guided into the side street, a couple of people might have tried to disappear into the crowd, but the group had followed directions from the police. the person making the report did not look like a typical football supporter. the witness had continued to keep an eye on the person standing with his telephone to his ear. based on the evidence, the court accepts as fact that the copenhagen police had received intelligence prior to the international football match between denmark and sweden on 10 october 2009 that danish and swedish hooligan groups had arranged to meet in connection with the match and that the police had seen the first large fight between danish and swedish football fans at amagertorv square at 3.41 p.m. this implied a concrete and imminent risk of disturbance of public order, and the police were under a duty to attempt to prevent such disturbance; see section 5(1) of the police act. the court finds, in the circumstances of the present case, that there is no basis for invalidating the assessment made by the police, according to which the release of the detainees before the city centre had become quiet would have entailed a concrete and imminent risk of further unrest, including clashes with spectators who had been let out of the national stadium after the end of the match and who were still in the streets in large numbers. it also appears from the preparatory notes on the same provision that normally the six-hour period can only be exceeded in connection with actions involving the detention of a considerable number of people, in which situations the time spent on transfer to the police station and registration and identification of detainees would render it impossible, in practice, to observe the six-hour rule.
the applicant was born in 1987 in the netherlands and arrived in denmark when he was approximately 9 months old. he remained in denmark, together with his parents and three brothers. he was released on 10 july 2006 with two hundred and fifty-five days remaining, suspended for two years. by a city court judgment of 25 march 2010, he was convicted of theft and sentenced to thirty days’ imprisonment. the applicant was also charged with possession of arms, threatening a witness, drug offences and handling stolen property. he had no family there and did not speak the language. he had had a girlfriend for 2 years and 3 months. for the purpose of the court proceedings, the aliens authority (udlændingestyrelsen) issued a report on the applicant. the length of his legal stay in denmark was therefore calculated at approximately sixteen years and two months. he had stated that, for the past two years, he had had a girlfriend, and that his father, three brothers and about 80 family members lived in denmark. in this respect the city court stated:“as regards the issue of expulsion, the court observes that it depends on an assessment of proportionality as established by the supreme court (højesteret) in a judgment reproduced on page 225 of the danish weekly law reports for 2012 ((ufr) 2012.225h), whether an offender is to be expelled. regard is to be had to the special situation of a person who has spent most, if not all of his or her childhood in the host country, was brought up there and received his or her education there (§ 74). [the applicant] has been convicted of robbery on several previous occasions. the offences for adjudication in connection with the case at hand were committed during the probation period of the most recent suspended expulsion order. it appears that the applicant was expelled from denmark in december 2017, after having served his sentence, and that he re-entered denmark shortly after, in breach of the ban.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in tallinn. on 27 may 2010 the harju county court determined that the applicant’s son, o.t. ( ’s guardian to protect his interests in social and legal matters and in matters concerning property. was examined by a forensic psychiatric expert who confirmed, in an expert report dated 8 november 2010, the earlier expert findings (see paragraph 6 above). undergo coercive psychiatric treatment, which commenced on 6 june 2011. denies the committed offence, does not consider himself mentally ill. during the course of the interview his facial expression had become angry from time to time, he had laughed inappropriately, and he had faked psychotic experiences. was in need of continued psychiatric treatment. himself stated that he did not understand anything and did not wish to make statements. posed a danger to himself or to society and that no independent expert assessment had been carried out. on 4 july 2013 the tartu court of appeal dismissed the appeal. on 19 july 2013 the applicant lodged a further appeal with the supreme court, reiterating the complaints made in her first appeal. she also requested legal aid, since an appeal before the supreme court could be lodged only by a lawyer, for the hiring of whom she had no financial means. ’s rights – primarily his right to liberty. on 18 september 2017 the government notified the court that the psychiatric treatment of the applicant’s son had been terminated, at the request of the applicant, by a decision of the tartu county court of 21 september 2016.
the applicants were born in 1980 and 1986, respectively, and were detained at the tekirdağ f-type prison when the application was lodged. on 28 and 29 october 2005 the applicants were arrested and taken into custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 31 october 2005 the applicants were brought before a judge at the istanbul assize court which ordered their detention on remand. on 23 december 2005 the istanbul public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment against the applicants, accusing them, inter alia, of membership of a terrorist organisation and illegal possession of explosives. on 26 december 2005 the istanbul assize court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention. throughout the proceedings the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicants’ detention on remand. between the hearings, with regular intervals of one month, the court ex officio examined the applicants’ detentions on the basis of the case-file and decided to extend. at the end of the hearing held on 13 october 2008, the trial court decided once again to prolong the applicants’ detention. although the applicants’ lawyer was present at this hearing, the applicants were not brought from prison to the court. subsequently, their lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 13 october 2008. on 11 november 2008 the 13th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or to their representative. on 23 december 2009 the court convicted the applicants and sentenced them to imprisonment. the court also ordered the continuation of the first applicant’s detention and the release of the second applicant. on 24 march 2011 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first instance court.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in kragujevac. on 14 december 2006 the applicant instituted civil proceedings against the kragujevac clinical centre requesting damages. in the course of the proceedings eleven hearings were held, whereas five hearings were scheduled, but were not held. on 20 may 2011 the applicant’s claim was rejected as unfounded by the kragujevac court of first instance. on 26 december 2011 the kragujevac appellate court (“the appellate court”) quashed the decision of 20 may 2011 and remitted the case to the first instance court. in the resumed proceedings the applicant sought recusal of the acting judge twice, but both of his motions were rejected. on 20 march 2013, following the applicant’s two other recusal requests, one of which was adopted, the high court rejected the applicant’s damages claim as unfounded. on 21 august 2014 the appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the decision of 20 march 2013. thereafter, the applicant filed an appeal on points of law, which was rejected by the supreme court of cassation only on 21 december 2016. in the meantime, on 7 february 2013, the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the constitutional court complaining about the length of the pending civil proceedings, seeking non-pecuniary damages in the amount of 3,000 euros and publication of the decision of the constitutional court. the applicant’s case-file was thus returned to the constitutional court. on 6 november 2014 the constitutional court returned the case-file to the appellate court, which on 28 november 2014 again found that it had no jurisdiction to deal with the case. the appellate court then transferred the case-file further to the supreme court of cassation, as the competent court. on 21 october 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal in regards to the length of the proceedings. the constitutional court established that even though the impugned proceedings had lasted seven years and eight months, they were very complex and the applicant largely contributed to its length, whereas the competent courts acted efficiently.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in bečej, where he was employed as a police officer. on 26 may 2003 the competent directorate of the ministry of interior dismissed the applicant from the police force (effective as of 30 may 2003). the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision, but on 30 june 2003 his appeal was rejected and the dismissal thus confirmed. on 23 july 2003 the applicant lodged a claim with the municipal court seeking his reinstatement. on 12 november 2003 the remainder of the criminal proceedings were discontinued because the public prosecutor had withdrawn the charges. on 17 june 2004 the novi sad district court (“the district court”) upheld this judgment. the applicant’s former employer thereafter submitted an appeal on points of law. in the meantime, the applicant was reinstated to his previous post by decision of the ministry of interior of 13 january 2005. the decisions of 26 may and 30 june 2003 were also repealed. on 4 july 2005 the applicant was thus again dismissed from his job, which decision was upheld on 11 august 2005 by the minister of interior. on 4 august 2005, the applicant brought another set of the proceedings for the annulment of his second dismissal. on 17 february 2011 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal. in regards to the court judgments of 31 october 2003, 17 june 2004 and 9 march 2005 the constitutional court established that the his complaints were inadmissible ratione temporis given that the serbian constitution had come into force on 8 november 2006, i.e. after the first set of the proceedings concerning the applicant’s dismissal. on the other hand, with respect to the judgments of 27 october 2005, 10 may and 18 december 2007, the constitutional court found that they were not arbitrary, and upheld the legality of the applicant’s second dismissal on the basis of article 45, read in conjunction with article 34 (1)(2), of the ministry of interior act 1991. 43519/07 and 2 others, §§ 36-37, 12 january 2016).
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in moscow. on 8 october 2010 the applicant was charged with contempt of court and criminal libel of the judge who presided over the appeal proceedings in the first criminal case (“the second criminal case”). on 29 august 2007 the investigator made the applicant sign an undertaking to stay in novosibirsk for the duration of the proceedings in the first criminal case. in august 2008 the first criminal case was submitted for trial. on 13 november 2008 his request was refused; the judge held that the application of the travel restriction was justified on account of the applicant’s previous failures to appear. her decision was upheld on appeal by the district court on 27 january 2009 and by the regional court on 16 march 2009. the travel restriction expired in 2013 after the proceedings in the second criminal case were terminated (see paragraph 7 above). he examined the devices, copied the relevant contents onto a disk and put them sealed in the storage. the applicant applied for judicial review. on 23 december 2010 the tsentralnyi district court dismissed his application, holding that he would be able to make copies of any materials, including physical evidence, after the investigation had been completed. legal-aid lawyer s. was appointed to represent the applicant. at the preliminary hearing on 1 july 2011, the novosibirsk regional court accepted that the rights of the defence had been undermined by reason of the investigator’s failure to address the applicant’s objections to the participation of the legal-aid lawyer. as counsel m. had refused to testify, no conflict between the interests of the defendant and those of his representative could have arisen, and the investigator had not had any legal grounds to exclude her from the proceedings. towards the end of the pronouncement hearing, the investigator entered the room, accompanied by two bailiffs. on 9 february 2011 the novosibirsk regional court dismissed his appeal in a summary fashion.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in štitare. on 30 may 2000 the belgrade third municipal court ordered a socially-owned company kmg trudbenik (hereinafter “the debtor company”), based in belgrade, to pay to the applicant a specified amount on account of salary arrears, plus the costs of the civil proceedings (judgment no. this judgment became enforceable on 19 june 2000. on 13 march 2002, upon the applicant’s request to that effect, the fourth belgrade municipal court ordered the enforcement of the said judgment and further ordered the debtor company to pay the applicant’s enforcement costs (enforcement order no. on 7 october 2003 the enforcement proceedings were suspended due to the institution of compulsory settlement proceedings before the belgrade commercial court (“the commercial court”). on 9 december 2011 the commercial court opened insolvency proceedings in respect of the debtor company. on 6 march 2012 the applicant submitted his request for enforcement of the 30 may 2000 judgment (“enforcement request”) to the insolvency manager. the insolvency manager neither rejected the applicant’s claim nor forwarded it to the commercial court. on 24 february 2014 the applicant thus submitted his enforcement request with the commercial court, and on 1 october 2014 he supplemented it. on 6 august and 27 october 2014 the applicant complained about the inactivity of the acting judge in the insolvency proceedings. on 13 october 2014 the commercial court rejected the applicant’s enforcement request as having been lodged out of time. on 28 january 2015 the commercial appellate court rejected the applicant’s appeal, and upheld the commercial court’s decision of 13 october 2014. on 24 march 2015 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of the decision of 28 january 2015. however, on 19 may 2016 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s appeal as unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in bratislava. on 20 december 2014 the bratislava iv district court ordered the applicant’s pre-trial detention in the context of criminal proceedings in which he was prosecuted for committing the criminal offence of manslaughter. the reason for his detention was the risk of reoffending. on 3 march 2015 the applicant submitted a request to the district prosecution office for release from pre-trial detention. in it, he asked for his detention to be replaced with supervision by a probation officer. the request was received by the latter on 4 march 2015 and dismissed on 5 march 2015, following which it was transferred to the district court for a judicial determination. on 26 march 2015 the district court held a hearing and dismissed the applicant’s request for release. the written version of that decision was served on the applicant on 14 april 2015 and, after several unsuccessful attempts at delivery, was served on the applicant’s lawyer on 21 april 2015. the case file was transferred to the bratislava regional court on 29 april 2015 and the applicant’s appeal was dismissed in chambers on 7 may 2015. on 1 june 2015 the applicant filed a constitutional complaint, relying inter alia on article 5 § 4 of the convention. he alleged that the authorities had not proceeded speedily with his request for release. he formally challenged the proceedings held before the district curt, the decision of the regional court of 7 may 2015 and the proceedings preceding this decision. the constitutional court held that it had found no irregularities in the regional court’s decision of 7 may 2015. it did not award him any compensation or legal costs and expenses. the district court had therefore failed to deal with the applicant’s request speedily and to serve the written decision on him promptly.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in moscow. on 29 december 2007 n., the owner of two rooms in flat 10 located at 3‑3, ulitsa anny severyanovoy, moscow, signed a deed of gift in respect of the rooms for ya. the moscow city department of the federal registration service (the “registration service”) registered the deed and ya. on an unspecified date the investigative committee opened criminal investigation into m.’s actions who was suspected of having tricked n. into signing the deed of gift for ya. according to the sale contract, the applicant paid 300,000 russian roubles (rub) for the rooms. on 11 july 2008 the preobrazhenskiy district court of moscow issued a seizure order in respect of the rooms within the framework of the criminal investigation on the charges of fraud against m. 10. on 16 july 2008 the registration service registered the sale agreement between ya. and the applicant and the applicant’s title to the rooms. on 28 september 2009 the district court found m. guilty of multiple offences, including a fraud in respect of the room later purchased by the applicant, and sentenced him to fourteen years’ imprisonment. on 29 december 2014 the presnenskiy district court of moscow granted the housing department’s claims. the court found the deed of gift null and void. it further established that n., the lawful owner of the rooms, had died intestate and without heirs. on 18 june 2015 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 29 december 2014 on appeal. on 9 march 2015 the supreme court of the russian federation issued a similar decision. the parties did not provide any information as regards the enforcement of the judgments in the city’s favour.
the applicant company is a private media company whose registered office is in ljubljana. mr s. took the officers to the mailroom but nobody was there. an employee who arrived at the mailroom at 9.25 a.m. refused to sign anything and said that she would call her superior. a moment later mr p., the deputy finance executive, arrived at the mailroom. at 9.57 a.m., after the arrival of the police, the officers again entered the applicant company’s premises. on 6 october 2011 the applicant company commented on the inspection report, maintaining that nobody had raised their voices at the officers or had asked them to leave the company’s premises. nothing had prevented them from carrying out the inspection. in particular, the four witnesses, who had been present at the premises on the day of the alleged obstruction, would prove that the applicant company had not obstructed the inspection or refused to cooperate with the officers. on 26 november 2013 the supreme court dismissed the applicant company’s action (see paragraph 11 above). the court emphasised that although the applicant company had contested the facts as established by the office (see paragraph 10 above), it had not challenged the fact that the officers could not immediately after their arrival at the company’s premises secure the evidence. in this connection, the court held that making the officers wait in the reception area while the company prepared for the inspection ran contrary to the purpose of an inspection. meanwhile, on 7 august 2012 the office issued a summary of the relevant facts (povzetek relevantnih dejstev), expressing the opinion that the applicant company had abused its dominant position in the television advertising market. on 24 september 2012 the applicant company commented on the summary of the relevant facts, requesting an oral hearing and for the examination of several witnesses to prove that it had not restricted competition. on 3 december 2013 the supreme court dismissed the action (see paragraph 19 above). consequently, it refused to hold a hearing.
the applicant was born in 1991 and lives in chișinău. on 15 june 2014 the applicant had an altercation with two persons, one of whom was in an advanced state of intoxication. during the altercation, the applicant pushed the intoxicated person and punched the other one. as a result, the intoxicated person fell to the ground and received a serious head trauma. on the same day the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. he also submitted that he could not influence any witnesses because they were in another village and that a restraining order to quit his town of residence would be sufficient to eliminate that risk. on 17 september 2014 the prosecutor’s office lodged an application for the prolongation of the applicant’s detention arguing, inter alia, that between 22 july 2014 and 25 august 2014 the applicant had absconded from the investigating authority. on 23 september 2014 the ialoveni district court upheld the prosecutor’s request and prolonged the applicant’s detention for a period of thirty days. the applicant appealed against the above decision and argued, inter alia, that there was no risk of absconding or interfering with the investigation. he went home and nobody came after him until 25 august 2014. on 7 october 2014 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the applicant lodged on the same date a habeas corpus request. the applicant was released from detention and ordered not to leave his town and not to interfere with the investigation. throughout his detention the applicant was held in prison no. the cells were equipped with squat toilets which were not properly separated.
the first applicant was born in 1975 and lives in st petersburg. she sent him an email on 30 april 2013, indicating her whereabouts. m. submitted an opinion by a psychologist, l., whom she and the first applicant had consulted once before their separation regarding their marital problems. the first applicant’s parents applied to intervene as third parties and that the second applicant’s residence be set as st petersburg. it was true that the first applicant also had good living conditions and had actively participated in the child’s upbringing and care. the first applicant appealed, repeating his previous arguments. the only reason advanced by the district court for its decision to grant the residence order to the child’s mother had been the child’s age. moreover, m. was unemployed rather than on parental leave because she had not been in employment since 2009. in any event, m. had returned to work in december 2014 and since then the second applicant had been taken care of during the day by his maternal grandmother. on 2 october 2014 the first applicant complained to the nizhniy novgorod childcare authorities that m. had continued to restrict his contact with his son. on an unspecified date the first applicant applied to the nizhegorodskiy district court for contact rights, claiming that m. decided whimsically on the days when she would allow him to see his son without taking into account that he lived in another town, and that she occasionally prohibited any contact between them for long periods of time. on 8 july 2016 the nizhegorodskiy district court rejected the first applicant’s request for immediate enforcement of the contact order of 27 april 2016, finding that it did not belong to the category of cases where immediate enforcement was prescribed by law. in view of their advanced age and consequent inability to travel, contact should take place in st petersburg where x should be brought either by m. or by the first applicant. on 25 october 2016 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the contact order of 27 april 2016 on appeal. on 4 april 2017 the st petersburg city court amended the contact order of 31 august 2016 on appeal, finding that the contact schedule was too onerous for x and m. it held that x’s paternal grandfather and grandaunt should be able to have contact with him for seven days every six months at the grandfather’s place of residence.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicant, may be summarised as follows. moreover, his oldest son, i, was mentally disabled and would need special assistance to travel. since he did not consent to the release on parole, he was brought before the district court which, on 23 august 2012, by virtue of section 50, subsection 2, of the aliens act (udlændingeloven) maintained his detention until a decision was taken on whether to revoke the deportation order. to this effect, relying on section 50, subsection 1, of the aliens act, the applicant claimed that material changes had occurred in his circumstances. after his mother had died, he had not had much contact with his family in jordan. the immigration service also finds that the unsubstantiated information provided by [the applicant’s] counsel, that several of [the applicant’s] children suffer from mental problems as a result of the separation from [the applicant] cannot lead to a revocation of the expulsion order either...” 21. before the district court, x confirmed the statements that she had given to the police. he was still in respite care, as she had described to the police. the children were very excited to spend time with him. their daughter was probably the one who was most strongly attached to [the applicant], but their two sons were also very attached to him. it would be a disaster if her children were separated permanently from their father. all of them were healthy and attended school here in denmark. when leaving jordan in 2000, she had been told at the airport in jordan that she must pay some money for having lived in jordan, and if she failed to pay she could not return to jordan. this was the reason why she could not return to jordan. it would help if he could be with [the applicant].
the applicants are joint owners of the property at number 274, republic street, valletta. initially, the property belonged to the applicants’ ascendants. part of the property is utilised as a band club, and part of the property is operated as a restaurant and bar. the amendments however also gave the relevant minister the power to regulate conditions relating to clubs, thus allowing for the possibility of future amendments (see paragraph 19 below). in 2011, the applicants filed proceedings before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional jurisdiction. the applicants claimed that their right to peaceful enjoyment of the property as protected under article 1 of protocol no. they claimed that they were being denied the use of their property without being provided with adequate compensation. the applicants further submitted that, in 2009, the law had been amended, allowing for an increase in rent and the establishment of a cut‑off date for existing “protected rents”, but the amendments in the law did not cover properties rented out as clubs. irrespective of which value one was to consider, the court concluded that the rent being received by the applicants was disproportionate. the court further concluded that the applicants had not suffered any discrimination as no satisfactory proof had been presented showing that they were discriminated against when compared to other owners leasing their property as a club. however, in line with domestic case-law the constitutional court concluded that, because the agreement had been entered into voluntarily with full knowledge of the consequences it would lead to (that is, that the rent due could not be raised and the rent agreement could not be terminated), then the applicants could not allege a violation of their rights. on 6 may 2015, the applicants filed an application for retrial. the costs of the proceedings were to be paid by the applicants. the regulations provided that the rent payable to the owners by the band clubs holding the property under title of lease was to be increased by 10% (from the previous year) every year until 2016 and as from 1 january 2016 the rent was to be increased by 5% (from the previous year) every year until 2023, following which it would increase every year according to the index of inflation. as a result in 2015 the total annual rent paid to the applicants by the kobc was eur 2,876.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. on 28 may 2007 the applicant complained to the president of the chechen republic that the investigation had been ineffective. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 10 october 2007 the investigators’ superiors overruled the suspension owing to the need to question the traffic police officers who had witnessed the arrest. according to the applicants, in january 2002 a person working at the urus-martan military commander’s office promised them that mr rustam makayev would be released in return for their handing him over a gun. having questioned mr rustam makayev’s father and wife, who confirmed the account of the events, as described above, the investigators suspended the proceedings on 22 february 2002 for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 14 february 2007 the suspended proceedings were resumed. four days later the applicant was granted victim status in the case. the first applicant is the mother of mr ruslan edilsultanov, who was born in 1980. on 21 december 2010 the applicants lodged a complaint with the shali town court, complaining of the investigator’s failure to take basic steps. by a letter of 31 august 2005 the shali district prosecutor’s office informed the applicant that operational search measures had been taken to find her missing sons. 46060 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). on 14 august 2005 the investigators suspended the proceedings. at the time of the events the applicants’ neighbours saw heavy military vehicles parked on the road near their house.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in nicoreni. he did not return to moldova until october 2015. in the meantime x lodged a criminal complaint against the applicant accusing him of fraud. criminal proceedings were initiated against the applicant in march 2012 on the basis of that complaint. the prosecutor argued in support of the remand that the applicant had been hiding from the investigating authorities. on 8 february 2013 the râșcani district court ordered the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days. on 9 october 2015 the applicant returned to moldova from the russian federation. the applicant telephoned the police station and agreed to come on 13 october 2015. on 13 october 2015 the applicant went to the râșcani police station where he was immediately arrested and placed in detention. on 15 october 2015 the applicant appealed against the order of 8 february 2013. he argued, inter alia, that he had not been aware of the criminal investigation against himself and that he had learned about it upon his return to moldova. he also submitted that there were no reasons to believe that he would abscond or interfere with the investigation. the applicant’s detention was prolonged on several other occasions until 16 march 2016 on identical grounds and all his appeals were dismissed. in the meantime the applicant was detained in prison no. according to him, he was detained in an overcrowded cell; the cell was equipped with a squat toilet which was not properly separated; the food was insufficient and of poor quality; he could have only one hour of outside exercise per day and only one shower per week.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, were living in the chechen republic. the latter had been exhausted and had complained of ill-treatment by the servicemen. 73038 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). it appears that the investigation is still pending. the first applicant saw her son, mr razambek isiyev, inside the uaz vehicle through its open door. on 13 july and 5 august 2004 the north caucasus military prosecutor’s office forwarded the first applicant’s requests for assistance in establishing her son’s whereabouts to the military prosecutor’s office of military unit no. the last decision to suspend the investigation of which the applicants were informed was taken on 3 august 2006. immediately after the abduction the applicants informed the authorities thereof and requested that a criminal investigation be initiated. on 16 october 2004 an officer of the valerik traffic police informed the head of the achkhoy-martan district police that on the night of the abduction a convoy of military vehicles, consisting of two apcs and two ural lorries without registration numbers, had left valerik, passed through a checkpoint, and driven off in the direction of urus-martan. all of them confirmed the circumstances of the abduction as described above. on 7 august 2006 the applicants requested information on the progress in the investigation and on 28 april 2010 they requested permission to access the investigation file. on 6 may 2003 the first applicant informed the chechnya prosecutor’s office of the abduction and requested that a criminal investigation be opened. on 5 june 2003 the first applicant was granted victim status. between 2006 and 2007 the investigation was suspended and resumed several times. on 1 march 2012 the investigation was resumed.
the applicant was born in 1975 and is serving a sentence in diyarbakır prison. on 12 september 1994 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of membership of an illegal organisation, namely hizbullah. he was allegedly subjected to torture while held in police custody, which lasted twenty-two days. the applicant was questioned by the police at the diyarbakır security directorate. subsequently, the diyarbakır public prosecutor took statements from him in the absence of a lawyer, concerning his involvement in the activities of hizbullah. in his statements, the applicant admitted his membership of the illegal organisation and mentioned certain activities in which he had participated. seven other individuals were charged under articles 168 and 169 of the same code. at the hearings of 22 august, 4 october and 15 november 1996, the state security court heard evidence from h.o., at the hearings of 5 august and 30 december 1997, the state security court heard evidence from a.y. on 6 november 1997 the applicant stated that he had been coerced by the police into admitting to the acts attributed to him. at the hearing of 20 july 1999, the diyarbakır state security court, composed of three civilian judges, read out the previous reports as a result of the change in the composition of the trial court. it rejected the applicant’s contention that he had been tortured while in police custody on the grounds that according to the medical report dated 4 october 1994, no traces of ill-treatment had been found on him. in particular, twenty-eight of them had fully retracted their police statements before the trial court while two of them had partially done so. the applicant appealed and on 16 april 2009 the court of cassation upheld the judgment. on 5 february 2010 he was informed that all the documents prepared in 1994 had been destroyed in 2004.
the applicant was born in 1933 and was detained in milan up to the time of his death in 2016. by an order of 5 march 2013 the gup suspended the proceedings against the applicant. the doctor further recommended that his cell be equipped with a bed with safety rails. on 17 december 2012 the duty nurse called the doctor, as the applicant was not responding to verbal or painful stimuli. on 18 february 2013 the hospital doctors decided that the applicant could be discharged. on the same day the prison management issued a report summarising the structural changes that had already been carried out in view of the applicant’s return – such as the installation of a new bed with safety rails – and changes which were scheduled. he was diagnosed with a bacterial infection and a yeast infection. the material on file indicates that, during this period of hospitalisation, the applicant had daily medical examinations, periodic visits from specialists, and diagnostic tests. the pathologies with the greatest functional impact were identified as being extrapyramidal syndrome and serious cognitive decline. by a decision of 3 may 2013 the bologna court responsible for the execution of sentences (“the bologna court”) held that there were no grounds for modifying the applicant’s sentence on health grounds. on 8 march 2013, in an application addressed to three different courts for the execution of sentences (bologna, rome and parma) as well as to the minister of justice, the applicant’s counsel sought revocation of the special prison regime provided for by section 41 bis of the prison administration act, a key argument being that, in the light of the deterioration in the applicant’s cognitive functioning, the reasons as to why the regime had been applied originally were no longer relevant. this, in turn, could not exclude the possibility that the applicant could communicate orders to the criminal organisation if detained in the context of a normal prison regime. on 23 march 2016 the minister of justice issued an order renewing the application of the special prison regime for another two years. on the other hand, the palermo dda and the dna confirmed that there was a need for the renewal of the special prison regime. with regard to the applicant’s health, the dna reiterated the content of its 2014 opinion on the extension of the special prison regime and quoted extracts from it to the effect that the imposition of such a regime in no way interfered with the applicant’s medical care, and modifying the regime would not have an impact on his health.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in vienna. this does not happen according to our social standards and laws. if a hadith was quoted after bukhari, one can be sure that all muslims would recognise it. one can never approve of something like that. eines der großen probleme, die wir heute haben, ist dass mohammed als der ideale mann, der perfekte mensch, der perfekte muslim gesehen wird. weil er war ein kriegsherr, hatte einen relativ großen frauenverschleiß, um das jetzt einmal so auszudrücken, hatte nun mal gerne mit kindern ein bisschen was. in graz ihren berühmten sager gemacht hat, ruft mich meine schwester an und sagt: "um gottes willen. sie: "na ja, das muss man ein bisschen umschreiben, diplomatischer sagen." it had not been her intention to disparage muhammad. it had rightly made a distinction between child marriages and paedophilia. the court of appeal stated that the reason for the applicant’s conviction had not been that the events had purportedly taken place more than a thousand years ago and similar conduct would no longer be tolerable under today’s criminal law and contemporary moral and value concepts, but because the applicant had accused muhammad of paedophilia by using the plural form “children”, “child sex”, “what do we call it, if it is not paedophilia?” on 11 december 2013 the supreme court dismissed the request for a renewal of the proceedings. applying the above considerations to the applicant’s case, the supreme court held that she had not aimed to contribute to a serious debate about islam or the phenomenon of child marriage, but merely to defame muhammad by accusing him of a specific sexual preference, based on the assumption that he had had sexual intercourse with a prepubescent child, in order to show that he was not a worthy subject of worship. the court, whilst not misjudging the importance of the debate about sexual contact between adults and children, found that the applicant had not contributed to a debate of general interest because she had made her allegation primarily in order to defame muhammad. moreover, the measure taken by the criminal court had also been proportionate, as the applicant had only been ordered to pay a fine of eur 480.
the facts, as submitted by the parties, are similar to those in association “21 december 1989” and others v. romania (nos. 33810/07 and 18817/08, §§ 12-41, 24 may 2011). the applicants or their close relatives participated in demonstrations and were injured or killed by gunfire during the events of december 1989 in bucharest, slobozia, târgoviște and reșița, which led to the fall of the communist regime. in 1990 the military prosecutor’s offices from several cities opened on their own motion criminal investigations into the use of violence against the demonstrators. the applicants’ injury and their close relatives’ deaths were investigated along with most of the cases in a main criminal investigation recorded in file no. the most important procedural steps were mentioned in association “21 december 1989” and others (cited above, §§ 12-41) and in sidea and others v. romania ([committee] no. subsequent relevant developments of the criminal investigation are as follows. on 1 november 2016 the military prosecutor ordered the initiation in rem of a criminal investigation for the offence of crimes against humanity in respect of the same circumstances of fact. up to february 2017 further steps were taken in gathering information from domestic authorities, the prosecutor’s office contacting 211 civil parties, questioning members of the political party which took over the presidency at the time of events, planning the taking of evidence from military officers and other participants in the events, verifying the activity of the relevant military units and the audio/video recordings broadcast by radio and television. from march 2017 the military prosecutor examined military and civilian archives, including the vast archives of the romanian senate. they also viewed and transcribed more than 400 hours of audio/video recordings. they proceeded with the re-examination of several witnesses. they questioned military personnel involved in the december 1989 military operations and fifty-one members of the political party which ruled at the time and of other authorities. they verified the documents indicating the military units’ actions from that period. at the date of the latest information communicated by the parties to the court (29 march 2018), the criminal investigation was still ongoing.
the first applicant was born in 1950 and lives in reykjavík. the second applicant was born in 1948 and lives in reykjavík. on 16 february 2012 y and z were indicted for participating in fraud and market manipulation along with two other individuals. by a decision of the same day the district court rejected the request. by a decision of 4 april 2013, the supreme court dismissed the appeal. they noted that they had discussed this with their clients and made clear that the latter approved of their decision. he reiterated that the trial would start on 11 april 2013 as previously decided. the applicants replied to the letter immediately, referred to their previous arguments and stated that they would not attend the trial on 11 april 2013. on 11 april 2013, y and z attended the trial accompanied by new defence counsel. by a judgment of 12 december 2013, y and z, along with the other two accused, were convicted. on 13 december 2013 the applicants appealed to the supreme court against the district court judgment as regards the imposition of fines, by way of an appeal lodged by the prosecutor at their request. as regards their first claim, the applicants argued that they had at no point been informed that the court was considering imposing fines on them and they had not been invited to defend themselves before the district court, which was a fundamental part of the right to a fair trial. as regards the second complaint, the applicants argued, inter alia, that imposing fines on them as defence counsel had not been in accordance with the cpa as they had not been defence counsel at the time the district court judgment was delivered. furthermore, the applicants maintained that their conduct in question had not occurred during the proceedings as the cpa required. given these circumstances in the processing of the case, the appealed provision of the district court’s judgment on the court fines should be annulled.”
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in kyiv. from 13 april 2007 to 17 june 2011 the applicant had been serving his sentence in boryspil correctional colony (“the prison”). in his initial submissions, the applicant stated that he had been detained in dirty cells with poor ventilation and insufficient heating in winter. inmates suffering from hiv and tuberculosis were kept together with healthy prisoners. some searches had been carried out at night. he only received occasional and symptomatic treatment. the applicant also submitted copies to the court of letters he had received from it while in prison, one of which bore the prison stamp. however, those complaints were either not dispatched or were ignored. the government challenged the trustworthiness of part of the applicant’s submissions concerning the conditions of his detention, specifically his allegations that he had been detained in cells with poor sanitary and hygiene conditions together with inmates suffering from tuberculosis. the food and water were regularly checked and were of adequate quality. on 2 march 2009 the applicant was diagnosed with acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and was provided with appropriate treatment. on 12 may 2010 the applicant was diagnosed with possible hypertension and prescribed treatment. by letters of 8 and 15 september 2008 the brovary town court, at which his case file was kept, informed the applicant, inter alia, that the case file did not contain his cassation appeals or any replies from or judgments of the supreme court. on 17 february 2009 the brovary town court informed the applicant that the case file did not contain any letters or judgments of the supreme court. after his release from the prison on 17 june 2011, the applicant was given full access to his criminal case file.
ms bazanova (“the first applicant”) was born on 4 december 1964 and lives in serpukhov. on 23 march 2011 k. complained to the court that certain publications about the trial had an adverse effect on his private life. the information disclosed had been damaging to his reputation. his statements had been taken out of context and misconstrued. he also alleged that unknown persons had followed and threatened him in the courthouse. lodged a similar complaint with the court. on 24 march 2011 the prosecutor asked the court to hold the trial in camera. he relied on the complaints lodged by k. and ts. on 11 august 2011 the regional court found the first applicant guilty on two counts of abuse of power and two counts of bribery and sentenced her to 7.5 years’ imprisonment and a monetary fine. on 12 october 2011, having heard the judge rapporteur, the prosecutor, the first applicant and her counsel, the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the first applicant’s conviction in part (one count of abuse of power and one count of bribery in respect of ts. it appears that the first applicant did not appeal against the judgment of 8 october 2013. he remained in custody pending investigation and trial. on 31 march 2011 the savelovskiy district court of moscow fixed the trial for 14 april 2011. the court decided to hold the trial in camera in order to ensure security for the parties to the proceedings and their family members. on 14 december 2011, having heard the judge rapporteur, the prosecutor, the second applicant and his counsel and the counsel for the civil party, the moscow city court upheld, in substance, the second applicant’s conviction on appeal.
the applicants were born in 1950 and 1945 and live in i̇stanbul and ankara respectively. on 1 november 2004 mr kaboğlu, in his capacity as chairman of the consultative council, organised a press conference in order to reply to the criticisms of the report in question. that judgment was served on counsel for the applicants on 10 july 2008. on 27 october 2004 the daily newspaper yeniçağ published an article relaying statements made by b.a., on 7 january 2005 the applicants brought civil proceedings against b.a. the applicants appealed on points of law. stated the following:“... the lickspittles with their report on minorities and cultural rights are threatening the country’s integrity ... i̇brahim kaboğlu says ‘atatürk did not say türk, he said türkiyeli’ ... anyone who goes so far as to hijack the words of mustafa kemal shows his bad faith, separatist aims and treachery...” 30. published on 6 november 2004 in yeniçağ, contained the following statements and expressions:“within the prime minister’s office people are working on dismantling turkey, and when we intervene we are accused of using brute force ...; be careful, twenty-four persons did vote for this report, but they did not sign it. the main pro-sèvres cheerleader, kaboğlu, ... was going to present the report to the public ... no one sees the unlawfulness, the deviousness, the betrayal underlying this case. by judgment of 25 july 2006, the ankara regional court dismissed the applicants’ claim on the grounds that the statements in the impugned articles fell within the ambit of the provisions protecting their author’s freedom of expression. wrote the following on the subject of the applicants’ report:“... after the european union’s ‘never make any progress’ report of 6 october 2004, it was expected, as a ‘conditioned reflex’, that those in the pay of the wild west (vahşi batının beslemeleri), almost all of whom are former ... communists, would follow their masters, and even surpass them. are his windows flung open not to the world, but to his stomach? perhaps he thinks [that if he continues to] bark ever more loudly, his western masters will one day make a man of him. carry on anyway with your bird-brain dividing, dismantling and growling. oh crack-voiced, short-breathed bootlicker!
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in belgium. a student at the same university as the applicant, on suspicion of drug trafficking. on the same date the case prosecutor submitted to the tulcea county court a request to search the residences of o.d.a. had been extended to the applicant on suspicion of drug trafficking. he further stated that since he did not use lsd and had needed money he had decided to sell nine lsd tabs to o.d.a. at the upper bottom of the front page the statement was signed and dated 18 april 2008 by a police officer. in this statement, which was in romanian and signed by the applicant, the lawyer, the interpreter and the prosecutor, the applicant reiterated the previous statement given to the police (see paragraph 9 above) but this time stated that he had not known about the lsd in his luggage until he had unpacked at the dormitory. the applicant also said: “i have no complaints against the police authorities or the prosecutor”. the applicant, who was assisted by two lawyers of his choice and did not contest the charges brought against him, raised numerous complaints before the court regarding procedural irregularities during the investigation. on 24 october 2008 the tulcea county court convicted the applicant of unlawful possession of, importing and trafficking drugs and gave him a three-year suspended sentence. drawing on the evidence gathered during the investigation and at the trial, the court established the facts as follows. the applicant appealed against that judgment, reiterating his previous arguments. on 3 april 2009 the constanţa court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal as ill-founded. it also noted that the file included the prosecutor’s decision appointing an english language interpreter in the case and minutes signed by the applicant and the interpreter attesting that the applicant had been informed of his right to be represented by a lawyer of his choice and of the right to remain silent (see paragraph 10 above). the remaining arguments raised by the applicant were dismissed by the court as not proved.
the applicant is the biological mother of four children. on 28 january 2011 the social workers talked to the applicant, who, considering e. old enough to travel, explained to them that she was planning to travel to france before 31 january. on 30 january 2011 the applicant travelled to france to see her husband. since giving birth to e. she has been placed in a psychiatric hospital several times, including against her will on at least one occasion. the cerknica centre’s records of the ipt’s meeting, prepared by a social worker, show that on 6 june 2011 the applicant visited the cerknica centre, enquiring about e. for the first time. on 5 july 2011 the first contact session with e. took place. another thirteen contact sessions between the applicant and e. took place before the end of 2014. on 8 january 2014 the applicant asked the cerknica centre for contact sessions on a more regular basis. as requested by the applicant in may 2016, the inspection authorities of the ministry of labour, family, social affairs and equal opportunities carried out an inspection with a view to determining whether the cerknica centre had impeded contact between the applicant and e. their report and the documents in the file show that on at least on five further occasions the cerknica centre informed the applicant that she should institute proceedings before the ljubljana district court if she was not satisfied with the existing arrangements. in her view, the court should wait for her mental health – which at that point was poor – to improve before deciding the application. in his opinion of 16 may 2012 he submitted to the court that the applicant suffered from a disease on the schizophrenia spectrum, but had the capacity to be a party in the proceedings. according to dr m., the applicant’s lack of a realistic understanding of her illness, her negative attitude towards treatment, and her abandonment of e. were all the results of her mental illness. he also noted that she had not expressed a wish to have custody of e., but had expressed her desire to have more frequent contact with her. the applicant appealed, arguing that it was unacceptable to divest her of her parental rights solely because of her mental illness, and that the legislation provided no basis for such an extreme and disproportionate measure. as regards the applicant’s argument concerning discrimination against mentally ill people, the constitutional court found that the withdrawal of her parental rights had not been based on the fact that she suffered from mental illness, but on the fact that she had been permanently incapable of taking care of e. and the finding that there was no prospect that the family would ever be reunited.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1987 respectively. on 7 april 2009 the applicants were returning from chişinău to their home village when the minibus in which they were travelling was stopped by masked armed men at 11.10 p.m. the men ordered the bus driver to drive to the police headquarters in chişinău (“the police headquarters”), where the applicants, together with other passengers, were ordered to stand with their hands behind their heads. allegedly called the first applicant a prostitute. on the morning of 9 april 2009 a prosecutor visited their cell and asked whether anyone had been ill-treated or had any other complaints. on 16 april 2009 a moldovan news agency reported the allegation that three young women had been ordered to fully undress in front of male police officers. to the room in which she had been verbally abused and forced to fully undress by v.d., on 10 september 2009 the military prosecutor’s office, which had been tasked with examining all complaints of ill-treatment during the events of april 2009, decided not to launch a criminal investigation in response to the applicants’ complaint of 23 july 2009 to the prosecutor general’s office, in the absence of any evidence that an offence had been committed. on 20 november 2009 the applicants challenged the decisions of 10 september and 9 november 2009 before the rîşcani district court. (b)  criminal proceedings against the police officers 21. had ill-treated the applicants by means of psychological intimidation and forcing them to undress in front of persons of the opposite sex. was submitted to the centru district court for trial. from the beginning of the trial, that court had held four hearings and postponed five others for various reasons such as the absence of the prosecutor, of one of the applicants or of their lawyers, as well as annual leave taken by the prosecutor and the judge. the prosecutor summarised the applicants’ statements and referred to the results of the identity parades during which each of the applicants had identified a.c. when one young woman (n.) had looked away, he had hit the back of her head, as a result of which her forehead had struck the wall. he continued to work as a police officer throughout the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in viljandi. permission for prison leave under supervision (lühiajaline väljaviimine) was granted on 14 may 2013. each single occupancy compartment was at least 60 cm wide, 149 cm high and 85 cm long, with a floor area of 0.51 square metres. the prison van reached the vehicle access gate of the prison premises. the applicant then decided not to go to the funeral and was taken back to the prison approximately twenty minutes later. his brother was thereafter transported to the funeral at 10.02 a.m. and reached the cemetery at 10.57 a.m. 11. on 9 september 2013 the applicant lodged a request with tartu prison, asking for compensation in the sum of 7,500 euros (eur), claiming that the use of hand and ankle cuffs had been unjustified and that the prison authorities had wished to expose him to the public and to his family in such degrading circumstances. he added that the van compartment had been too small and without safety equipment, making him fear for his life. on 4 december 2013, repeating the same complaints as those detailed above, the applicant lodged a complaint against tartu prison with the tartu administrative court. on 11 march 2014 the tartu administrative court dismissed the applicant’s complaint. the court referred to the legal basis for using hand and ankle cuffs and considered it justified. with regard to the conditions in the transport van, the court noted that the applicant had refused to be transferred and therefore had never been subjected to the conditions described. however, there was no sign that the prison authorities had particularly wanted to degrade him in front of his family by resorting to the use of hand and ankle cuffs. on 7 october 2014 the tartu court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. since the applicant had foregone being transferred to his grandmother’s funeral, there had been no unlawful act on the part of the prison authorities.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in batman. it is not clear whether and when this report was made public. however, the interpretation of the available data suggested that pollution of such great magnitude could only have been caused over a long period by a facility with a high capacity of petroleum refining and storage in the vicinity, which pointed to the tüpraş refinery (a conclusion which was challenged by tüpraş and tpao representatives). in accordance with the proposal in the above interim report, on 17 august 2005 the local environment board of the batman governor’s office decided that no business or occupation permits should be granted in the area designated as the “red zone”, which consisted of an area of 200 x 300 metres where the contamination was at its highest, until the underground clean-up operation in the area was completed. it was estimated that the leak had been ongoing for a very long time and that it involved some four to six thousand tonnes of phenol. in a report issued on 16 june 2005, experts from the dokuz eylül university in i̇zmir stated, inter alia, that the oil leak at issue had, in all likelihood, emanated from tüpraş. the public prosecutor relied as evidence on the commission reports mentioned in paragraphs 10 to 24 above. at the first hearing held on 28 january 2005, a representative of the victims claimed that even if the oil leak which had caused the explosion had originated from the ant pipeline, tüpraş, as the supplier of the oil into that pipeline, remained responsible for the explosion. (vi)  all product lines at the tüpraş refinery were above ground and consistently monitored. however, where leaks arose from breaches of pipelines or other equipment by malicious individuals for the purposes of theft, then these institutions could not be expected to uncover such incidents by their own efforts alone. they noted in the report that the studies undertaken thus far had not been able to reveal the source or sources of the leak. on 1 may 2008 the batman assize court delivered its judgment on the case. on 17 january 2012 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first-instance court and discontinued the proceedings as prosecution of the offence in question had become time-barred. in its response dated 19 december 2006, tüpraş claimed firstly that the applicant’s claims had become time-barred, as he had failed to lodge his action within one year of the date of the explosion. he reserved his right to subsequently increase his claim.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in barcelos. on 27 january 2011 the judicial investigator informed the csm that he was about to begin the investigation in accordance with section 114(3) of the status of judges act (law no. drew up an indictment against the applicant, of which she was notified on 9 february 2011. one witness called by the applicant stated that he had been present during the telephone conversation in question and had not heard the applicant make the alleged remarks. taking the view that the applicant had acted in breach of her duty of propriety, he proposed a penalty of twenty day-fines. on 29 march 2011 the applicant submitted a request to the csm for judge f.m.j. ’s statement, that the applicant had called him a “liar”, and finding that the remarks referring to his “inertia” and “lack of diligence” came within the scope of the applicant’s freedom of expression. in a final judgment of 21 march 2013 the judicial division of the supreme court unanimously dismissed the appeal. during the investigation evidence was heard from the applicant, f.m.j., she also submitted that she could not be prosecuted as an accomplice to the offence as the law made no provision for that possibility. on 19 july 2011 the applicant lodged a complaint against this report with the judicial investigator. on 30 january 2012 the judicial investigator rectified various errors in the report. the supreme court held as follows:“whether or not the provisions governing a special administrative action [ação administrativa especial] to set aside an administrative act permit the holding of a public hearing at an appellant’s request will naturally depend from the outset on the extent of the supreme court’s powers of review, as fashioned and regulated specifically by the status of judges act, with regard to the establishment of the facts and the taking of evidence in connection with the appeal. in reality, it is clear that such a hearing, devoted to the production of evidence and discussion of the facts, would be useful and meaningful only if the supreme court, in determining the appeal, had broad-ranging jurisdiction to review without restriction all the facts and evidence relied on in the impugned decision. with regard to the evidence which the applicant proposed to produce during the hearing, the supreme court found that it was inadmissible and irrelevant, stressing in particular(a)  that the applicant’s request for evidence to be heard from the witness had been aimed at establishing the content of the draft decision of the plenary csm in the applicant’s disciplinary case; this ran counter to the confidentiality of the proceedings leading to the final decision; and(b)  that the documents submitted by the applicant went beyond the subject-matter of the disciplinary proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in podgorica. some passers-by separated x from the applicant, after which x left the scene saying “i will bring a knife and a hammer to kill you”. and inflicting light bodily injuries on him. the proceedings on those two indictments were joined into a single set of proceedings. on 24 june 2013 the court of first instance requested the prison authorities to transfer x to a special hospital in kotor. moreover, the applicant had reported x to the police for threatening him before the attack. owing to the failure of the state to undertake any preventive measure in respect of x, the applicant had been attacked by him and had suffered injuries. in the course of the proceedings, on 20 december 2013 the court heard z.ɖ., had looked for x in order to talk to him but had been unable to find him for the next two days. he did not know, however, whether those complaints had been further processed. in addition, after the attack x had been criminally prosecuted and found guilty. on 20 april 2015 the high court upheld the first-instance judgment. b) four months thereafter, x had attacked and injured the applicant; and (c) three days before the attack the applicant had complained to the police that x had threatened him. the discharge note of 3 october 2012, however, noted that x “[did] not want to remain in hospital in spite of the persistent insistence of the doctor in charge (ordinarijus) that he continue hospital treatment. it is clear from the case file that between the periods of hospitalisation in 2008 and 2012, x had seen a psychiatrist on at least three occasions: on 1 november 2010, 22 september and 11 october 2011.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in istanbul. on the same day, the police informed the kartal public prosecutor of the disappearance of the applicant’s sons. she had noticed that aykan had looked somewhat anxious before leaving home, and that he had forgotten to wear his school tie and socks. on 27 november 2007 the kartal public prosecutor’s office asked the turkish telecommunication institution to provide a record of the individuals who had called aykut aka’s mobile telephone in the past three months, together with their complete identity information and addresses. the male corpse recovered by the divers deployed to the incident site was fully dressed in a school uniform and wearing a rucksack. on the same day, officers from the sarıyer security directorate prepared an incident scene report. when he had picked up the telephone, a woman unknown to him had asked why he had answered that telephone, and then had hung up. i am giving my life to his holiness azrael, this is wonderful”. the principal said that aykut had been talkative and a successful student. aykan, on the other hand, had not had good marks, and, according to his schoolmates, had not been very sociable. his rucksack was also attached to his body by a rope. the call records enclosed with that letter were not submitted to the court. according to a report prepared by the police on 28 december 2007, the cctv footage from 19 november 2007 of the place where the bodies were recovered did not reveal any information that could shed light on the circumstances of the applicants’ sons’ suspicious deaths. he claimed in particular that the public prosecutor had failed to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the incident. he had not fully investigated his sons’ telephone records or cctv footage that could have revealed information regarding their deaths, nor had he questioned his sons’ close friends.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in villavente (león). she requested that the administration be found liable for the alleged psychological harassment in the workplace. the competent authorities did not render a decision within the requisite time-limit. she claimed that the applicant had subjected her to workplace harassment, from the academic year 2000/01 onwards in particular, and that the competent authorities had failed to take any measures to prevent it. 2491/2011) of 2 november 2011, the high court of justice of castilla-león (administrative chamber) ruled against the regional administration of castilla-león, ordering it to pay compensation to the plaintiff in the amount of eur 14,500. it concluded that the situation suffered by her amounted to workplace harassment and that the education authorities, despite being aware of the situation, had not taken effective measures to bring it to an end. although the court acknowledged that not all the acts or behaviour attributed to the applicant could be considered psychological harassment, it found that on the basis of the evidence collected a situation of psychological harassment in the workplace had been shown to exist. on 15 december 2011 the applicant requested to have access to the file and to become a party to the proceedings. on 1 february 2012 the applicant lodged an appeal against the above-mentioned decision requesting the annulment of the proceedings. the court nevertheless decided on the merits. therefore, in line with section 145 of law 30/1992 and the relevant subordinate legislation, within such proceedings neither the authorities nor civil servants could be sued nor, accordingly, could they be a party to the proceedings. the national legislature had set up liability proceedings against the public administration excluding the possibility of its authorities or staff becoming interested parties to them even though in all cases the public officials concerned were identifiable; their professional conduct was being judged and hence their honour and moral integrity could eventually be affected; there was a possibility that the administration concerned would institute a “recovery action” against them; and the administrative or judicial decisions were subject to potential media coverage. lastly, the court stated that the public official concerned would only be considered to be an interested party in a recovery action (acción de repetición) under section 145(2) of law 30/1992, in which each and every one of the elements constituting the liability for which recovery was sought could be contested, including the acts attributed to him or her. according to the court, such proceedings were set up to facilitate redress and compensation for those affected by the acts of public officials. the court declared the appeal inadmissible by a decision of 2 october 2012 (served on the applicant on 9 october 2012) on the grounds that it had not duly justified its special constitutional significance.
the applicants were born in 1958, 1977, 1956, 1981 and 1979, respectively (see appendix). he was also acquitted of the charges of unlawful assembly and association (reunión ilícita y asociación ilítica). the first applicant brought a cassation appeal before the supreme court, challenging, inter alia, the impartiality of the president of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional and judge rapporteur of that judgment (hereinafter “the presiding judge”), as she had displayed hostility towards him during those criminal proceedings. the first applicant had refused to give an answer. consequently, the supreme court declared that the judgment was void and ordered a re-trial by a new panel formed by three other judges different from the ones that were part of the composition of that panel. on 22 july 2011 the audiencia nacional acquitted the applicant. the applicants were accused of being members of this terrorist organisation. this time the presiding judge was not the judge rapporteur. according to the audiencia nacional, these new proceedings had a different object, i.e. his belonging to a terrorist organisation and the existence of strong and permanent links with eta, which had nothing to do with his previous charge of encouragement of terrorism. on 16 september 2011 the audiencia nacional delivered its judgment and sentenced the first and third applicants to ten years’ imprisonment for being a member and leader of a terrorist organisation. the disqualification from taking part in elections was confirmed. according to the supreme court, there was no evidence apart from what happened in previous proceedings that supported the alleged partiality of the judges. according to the first dissenting opinion (which was endorsed, in substance, by the second dissenting judge), the applicants’ right to an impartial tribunal had indeed been violated, because the preconceived idea showed by the presiding judge in previous criminal proceedings against the first applicant also affected her judgment during subsequent proceedings. this lack of impartiality also had affected the other two judges of the panel. on 27 june 2012 the first, second, fourth and fifth applicants lodged an amparo appeal with the constitutional court against these judgments, arguing, inter alia, that the panel composition of the fourth section of the audiencia nacional fell short of the requirements of an impartial tribunal.
the applicants are ukrainian nationals of roma ethnicity. on 8 september 2002 a crowd of village residents gathered and demanded that the roma be expelled from the village. electricity and gas supplies to their houses were cut. subsequently, in the course of the night of 9-10 september 2002 a crowd of several hundred people, allegedly led by a certain mr o.m., a number of police officers were present but did not intervene to prevent the looting and apparently concentrated solely on preventing human casualties. the applicants submitted a number of written statements from the applicants addressed to ms duducehava, the leader of a roma association, and mr stoyanov, a lawyer who represented a number of applicants in the domestic criminal proceedings (see below). however, in her statement to the police dated 26 september 2002 this applicant stated that she had fled the village prior to the attack and had returned the next day to find her home ransacked. the events were reported in a number of regional and national newspapers. on 10 september 2002 the ivanivka district police initiated criminal proceedings against persons unknown on suspicion of disorderly conduct committed in a group (хуліганство вчинене групою осіб). on 20 february 2003 the ivanivsky district prosecutor’s office (“the dpo”) refused to institute criminal proceedings against the village council’s officials for lack of constituent elements of a crime in their actions. concerning the failure of the police to prevent the disorderly conduct in question, the head of the regional police had imposed disciplinary sanctions on the police officers at fault. on 31 december 2005 the head of the regional police informed mr stoyanov that the investigation had been suspended on 1 april 2003 and that the regional prosecutor’s office had examined the case and left the decision to suspend it in force. on 25 september 2008 the dpo informed mr stoyanov that the investigation had been lawfully suspended and that the aggrieved parties could only examine the case file once the investigation had been completed. on 17 march 2008 the odessa administrative court of appeal upheld this ruling. they asked the court to order the police to recognise them as such.
the applicant company, narodni list d.d., is a joint stock company incorporated under croatian law which has its registered office in zadar. it was the publisher of a weekly magazine, narodni list. on the morning of 23 november 2006 ms z.s.-k., he defended himself by saying that he had been photographing the court building and the court employees under the instructions of his editor-in-chief. lodged a criminal complaint against the journalist in question, stating that he had committed the criminal offence of making an unauthorised recording, as defined in article 131 of the criminal code. the day after, on 24 november 2006, the police again questioned a.m., after which they lodged a criminal complaint against him with the zadar municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zadru). came to congratulate s. on starting a daily newspaper. what b. is doing in journalistic circles is known only to the crew around s. in the western world journalists put such judges in the pillory.” asked the newspaper to publish an apology but it refused to do so. by a judgment of 10 march 2010 the municipal court ruled for the plaintiff and ordered the applicant company to pay him hrk 50,000[2] in compensation for non-pecuniary damage in the form of his tarnished reputation, as well as hrk 6,005[3] with respect to costs of proceedings. for these reasons the plaintiff is entitled to compensation for non-pecuniary damage sustained by the breach of his rights of personality [prava osobnosti] within the meaning of section 22(1) of the media act and section 1100(1) and (2) of the obligations act – that is to say to just financial compensation in the amount claimed by the action. however, there is no justification for it. in that sense the following statements are worth noting: ‘b’s arrival would have gone unnoticed had this judge not become ‘famous’ [even] outside croatia’s borders by illegally signing the warrant to search [the premises of] narodni list’ and ‘what b. is doing in journalistic circles is known only to the crew around s. in the western world journalists put such judges in the pillory’. [ it also relied on article 10 of the convention.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in palaio faliro. on 14 august 2007 the ministers of education and foreign affairs issued a decision informing all educational coordinators abroad of the end of their term of service. on the same date, the minister of education issued a decision informing the educational coordinators that they were to remain in their posts until the completion of the next selection procedure. the applicant’s name was omitted from the second ministerial decision and the post of educational coordinator in chicago remained vacant. in the meantime, a call for applications for educational coordinators for the next two-year period was published on 27 november 2007. that decision was revoked and replaced with a ministerial decision dated 29 august 2008 including the same content. the hearing was scheduled to take place on 13 november 2009, but was adjourned to 5 march 2010. on 27 may 2010 the applicant sent a memorandum to the court, requesting that the case be heard speedily, adding that an eventual discontinuation of the trial would violate her rights under article 6 § 1 of the convention. nevertheless, the hearing was again adjourned owing to the ministry’s failure to provide submissions. adjournments took place on 4 june, 17 september and on 8 october 2010. on 26 october 2010, the ministry sent its observations to the court, and a hearing took place on 10 december 2010, when the two-year term for educational coordinators and the contested ministerial decision had already expired. in particular, she argued that if the contested act was annulled she would be credited with two more years of experience, which would improve her chances of being selected as a deputy coordinator of education in a future selection procedure. on 16 march 2011 the athens administrative court of appeal published decision no. 508/2011 rejecting the applicant’s arguments. 18/1989 served the legal aim of avoiding any unnecessary trials.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in the village of akhaldaba. on two occasions, one two years earlier and the second earlier that year, the three accused attempted to rob and threaten his family, but he chose not to notify the police. three witnesses, a father and son – mr m.m. ’s yard on the morning of 14 august 2004, without specifying the exact time. he was not with the brothers at the time. it continued to note that at around 10 a.m., the applicant and the brothers had gone to the victim’s farm and killed him with a gun. in addition, the court relied on the forensic biological examination (see paragraph 11 above) and forensic soil examination (see paragraph 12 above), and other forensic evidence such as a forensic examination of the victim’s body and of the hand grenade, without elaborating on their relevance to the applicant’s conviction. on 13 june 2006 only the applicant appealed against the judgment of 8 may 2006. he emphasised that unlike his co-accused, no piece of forensic evidence available in the criminal case file implicated him personally in the crime. however, it was doubtful whether the latter had even been at the crime scene, given the evident contradictions between his account and the statements given by witnesses m.m. the toilet in the cell was not separated from the living area. on 16 december 2006 the applicant was transferred to rustavi prison no. it does not appear that he complained to the prison authorities about any aspect of his detention conditions. the applicant’s submissions dated 29 january 2009 revealed that he had been seen by a neurologist on an unspecified date in october 2008. as regards the other health-related complaints, on 28 october 2008 the applicant was examined and diagnosed with a chronic inflammation of the gallbladder.
he is currently serving a life sentence in marche-en-famenne prison (belgium). in a judgment of 21 december 2007, the investigation division of the court of appeal of douai (france), after acknowledging that the applicant had not renounced his entitlement to the rule of speciality[1], ordered his surrender to the belgian judicial authorities for the execution of the above‑mentioned arrest warrant. during the interview the applicant was also questioned about a statement made to the police by m.b. on 25 october 2007 according to which the applicant had tried to kill her by running her over. all subsequent records of his statements contained the same indications and were signed by the applicant. it is not in dispute that the applicant was not allowed to communicate with a lawyer between the time of his surrender to the belgian authorities and the end of his period in police custody on 31 december 2007. on 11 january 2008 the applicant was again interviewed by the criminal investigation police. when examined again by the investigating judge on 17 march 2008, the judge asked the applicant if he had chosen a lawyer. he replied in the affirmative and mentioned that he had been in contact with a lawyer at the brussels bar. ’s murder was her son, the applicant changed his account of the events. an arrest warrant was issued on 8 august 2008 extending the investigating judge’s remit, on the basis of the submissions of the crown prosecutor dated 23 may 2008 and 7 july 2008, to three additional offences: the attempted murder of m.b. namely robbery with violence or threats, and fraud. he also expressed his wish that his lawyer should confirm his position. it explained that, in principle, defence rights would be irretrievably affected only where incriminating statements were made. as to the consequences of the court’s case-law for the proceedings in the present case, the assize court took the view that, in respect of the french part of the proceedings, the applicant had initially waived his right to legal assistance.
the applicants were born in 1977 and 1964, respectively, and live in voronezh. the applicants are lawyers practicing in russia. between 2008 and 2010 the applicants, within the group of lawyers, consulted several municipal organisations about various legal issues and provided other legal service. however municipal organisations did not pay for the service and the applicants instituted proceedings seeking to recover the debt. on 22 june 2010 the sovetskiy district court of voronezh granted the applicants claim against the municipal transport company and awarded them 40,020,000 russian roubles. the judgment was not appealed against and became final. it appears that the judgment was executed at the expense of the municipal budget. on 9 january 2013 the prosecutor of the voronezh region applied to the district court for the extension of the time-limits for an ordinary appeal against the judgment of 22 june 2010. on 13 june 2013 the district court refused to extend the time-limits. on 8 august 2013 the voronezh regional court quashed the decision of the district court and extended the time limit for an ordinary appeal. the court found that the public interest had been concerned as far as the judgment had been executed by means of the municipal budget. thus the prosecutor had the right to lodge an appeal. on 12 november 2013 the voronezh regional court granted the appeal lodged by the prosecutor and quashed the judgment of 22 june 2010 and ordered the reversal of execution. the judgment became final and was partially executed.
the applicant was born in 1967 and lives in muğla. to collect alimony in arrears and accrued interest. objected to that order by bringing a case against the applicant before the datça enforcement court. ’s representative requested the court to take out an expert report to determine whether the payments he had made corresponded to the alleged debt. the court adjourned its examination on the question whether an expert report would be sought to a hearing to be held on 10 may 2006. in that hearing, the applicant’s representative left it to the court’s discretion for an expert to be appointed concerning the determination of the amounts that were already paid. the court therefore ruled for an expert to be appointed and scheduled another hearing for 7 june 2006. in the meantime, but before the hearing of 7 june 2006, the applicant’s representative requested that he be excused from that hearing since he had another scheduled court hearing elsewhere. the latter asked the court to rule in accordance with the findings in the expert report, which had concluded that all the relevant alimony payments had been made. the court scheduled a hearing for 21 june 2006 holding that the absent party be notified. on 21 june 2006, in its final hearing, the court ruled against the applicant on the basis of the expert report in question. neither the applicant nor her representative was present at that hearing. he explained in that connection that the expert’s calculations had been erroneous and did not correspond to the bank transfer receipts in the case-file. on 5 december 2006 the court of cassation upheld the decision of 21 june 2006 without responding to the applicant’s arguments. the applicant’s rectification request against that decision was rejected on 13 march 2007.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is a life-sentenced prisoner. he has been detained in x prison since 2008. the escort plan also included a personal risk assessment. on the same day the applicant was transferred from the prison to a public hospital. according to the applicant, he was not allowed to wear his own clothes during the visit. the quality management specialist of the hospital confirmed that screens were commonly used, as they prevented prison officers from directly observing the examination, but allowed them to intervene if needed. they stated that although it appeared from the note in the applicant’s escort plan that he had refused to see a doctor at the hospital because of his handcuffs and ankle cuffs, his medical file nonetheless revealed that a short meeting between the applicant and the doctor might have taken place. the applicant had submitted a request to be allowed to wear his own clothes during the visit. according to the applicant, the prison officers had been aware that the visiting hours at the hospital were from 12 noon to 7 p.m., but he had been transferred to the hospital at around 11 a.m. his visit with his daughter had lasted only ten minutes because he had been there during the time that medical procedures were being performed on the patients. the prison officers had remained with him at all times and could overhear the conversation between the applicant and the doctor regarding his daughter’s health. the court joined the two sets of proceedings. it held that the use of handcuffs and ankle cuffs had been permitted by law, based on preventive security considerations and, as such, had been proportionate. the court did not address these complaints in its reasoning part of the judgment. by a judgment of 26 august 2014, the tartu court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s complaint in full, but amended some of the reasoning provided by the first-instance court. the regulation also required that at least one member of the escort team maintain visual contact with the prisoner at all times.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is detained in sivas. the doctor observed no unfitness for work. also on the same day at 5.45 p.m. the applicant was examined at the diyarbakır state hospital by another doctor who made similar findings as those mentioned in the first medical report. on 22 november 2002 the applicant was interviewed by police in the absence of a lawyer in the course of which he had allegedly sustained both physical and psychological ill-treatment. according to the applicant’s submissions, he was allegedly forced to sign some documents, as well as a declaration to waive his right to legal assistance. he further maintained that when he had wished to read the documents that he had been made to sign he had been threatened with further ill-treatment. on 23 november 2002 the applicant gave a statement to the public prosecutor in the absence of a lawyer in which he accepted the accusations against him. on the same day the applicant was brought before the investigating judge at the diyarbakır state security court, who took his statements in the absence of a lawyer in which he had accepted most of the statements he had given to the police. he further claimed that the police officers had threatened him with excessive length of proceedings and had told him that if he had accepted the charges they would help him and release him from detention. on 27 november 2002 the diyarbakır public prosecutor filed a bill of indictment, charging the applicant under article 146 of the former turkish criminal code with attempting to undermine the constitutional order of the state. on 19 march 2003 the diyarbakır state security court held the first hearing on the merits of the case. during the hearing, the applicant gave evidence without a lawyer in which he denied his previous statements and the accusations. at a hearing held on 18 september 2003 the applicant submitted, without providing any details, that he had been tortured during the preliminary investigation. 5190 of 16 june 2004, published in the official gazette on 30 june 2004, state security courts were abolished. on 10 april 2008 the court of cassation upheld the trial court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in tianchang, the people’s republic of china. according to the report of the police officer on duty, su. none of the ukrainians expressed any suspicions about the applicant and he eventually left with his friends. m. considered that, most probably, it had been the applicant who had injured him. changed his initial statement and submitted that he had seen “one of the chinese [men], who [had] appeared bigger than the others and called himself yura [the applicant], jump on [m.’s] back and stab him with a metal skewer”. during an identification parade conducted that day sa. on an unspecified later date w. retracted his confession and submitted that he had only slightly injured d. and su. furthermore, several of the chinese witnesses told the police that w. had been particularly nervous after the incident, had destroyed the clothes he had been wearing on 1 may 2009 and had asked his parents for a considerable amount of money. as stated in its ruling, several people had seen metal skewers in w.’s hands, but nobody had seen the applicant holding a skewer, let alone stabbing m. sa. the chinese students gave their account of the fight. it observed in particular that no effort had been made to establish the motive for the murder. on which the first‑instance court had based the applicant’s conviction, had been contradictory, inconsistent and speculative. on 24 july 2013 the kyivskyy court found the applicant guilty of murder and sentenced him to twelve years’ imprisonment. it held, however, that their statements had not been refuted by any forensic medical findings. the court therefore holds that the reference by the applicant and his lawyer to the witness statements documented in the investigation’s reports and made either to the investigator or to the prosecutor outside of court hearings and not in accordance with the procedure [established by] article 225 of the ccp [2012], cannot be regarded as proper and admissible defence evidence.”
the first applicant was born in 1949 and lives in strasbourg, france. their property was damaged in the course of a counterterrorist operation in 1999-2000. however, for administrative reasons their claims were not processed until september 2013. their individual situations can be summarised as follows. in march 2005 the first applicant submitted an application for administrative compensation to the commission for compensation for lost property (комиссия по рассмотрению заявлений граждан о компенсационных выплатах за утраченное жилье и имущество, hereafter “the commission”). 25 in the destroyed apartment block at 21 tereshkova street. in june 2010 the applicant was informed that her application had not been examined by the commission since the building in question had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings. on 12 august 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected the first applicant’s claim, pointing out that the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the corresponding entry in the register. the first applicant’s subsequent attempts to obtain supervisory review were unsuccessful. in 2008 the applicant was registered as a person eligible for social housing because his flat had been destroyed during the hostilities. the second applicant complained to a court. on 5 july 2010 the staropromyslovskiy district court of grozny rejected his complaint since the commission was unable to proceed in the absence of the technical unit’s register. on 10 august 2010 the supreme court of chechnya upheld the decision on appeal. 61), had rejected all claims lodged by the owners of property which had not been entered in the register of destroyed buildings. in february 2008 the local district administration examined flat no.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in chișinău. at the time of the events the applicant was the owner of a company, incorporated in moldova, which ran an erotic video-chat business in chișinău. it employed young female models who provided erotic shows via webcam to customers outside moldova in exchange for payment. on 3 march 2015 the applicant was arrested and accused of pimping (proxenetism). on 7 march 2015, at the request of a public prosecutor, the centru district court ordered that the applicant be remanded in custody for a period of thirty days. he submitted that he could not be accused of pimping, in that the female models employed by him had not been engaged in prostitution. on 16 march 2015 the chișinău court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal and held that there had been grounds to believe that he might abscond or interfere with the investigation. on 31 march 2015 the centru district court upheld a request by the public prosecutor and prolonged the applicant’s detention for another thirty days. the applicant appealed on the same grounds as on the first occasion. however, his appeal was dismissed by the court of appeal on 7 april 2015. he also submitted that he had seen numerous similar businesses in chișinău, which had strengthened his belief that the activity was not unlawful. one of the conditions for applying the amnesty law was for the applicant to admit his guilt and express remorse. the applicant did not appeal against this decision. in deciding the case, the court sought an opinion from the state agency for the protection of morality as to whether the acts committed by the female models employed by the applicant could be qualified as prostitution and, thus, whether the applicant’s activity could be qualified as pimping. the opinion of 21 october 2015, which was the key element in convicting the applicant and was subsequently used in other similar cases, stated that the actions of the female models employed by the applicant could be considered acts of prostitution, in that their clients could obtain sexual gratification as a result of the models’ performance and because the models were paid for those acts.
the applicant was born in 1977 and is a life-sentenced prisoner. during the relevant period he was detained in the increased surveillance wing of the prison. the decisions indicated that they had to be served on the applicant. it was considered that he might pose a danger to the prison officers, particularly at the moment when the door was being opened, regardless of whether or not he was to be escorted outside of his cell. the measures were subject to review within no more than six months after being served on the applicant. the court noted that the prison had discretion in deciding whether to apply additional security measures and thus the judicial review of such decisions was limited. the court of appeal also took a decision regarding the judgment of the administrative court of 4 october 2013 in the third set of court proceedings (see paragraph 30 below). on 5 june 2014 it refused to examine the appeal. on 15 february 2013 the prison administration prolonged the application of additional security measures after giving the applicant the opportunity to express his opinion about the planned prolongation. on 7 april 2013 the applicant lodged a complaint with the tartu administrative court, seeking to have the decision of 15 february 2013 annulled. on 28 february 2014 it adopted a judgment reversing the judgment of the tartu administrative court of 4 october 2013 in part. the court found that the aforementioned information gave x prison sufficient grounds to believe that, upon the lifting of the additional security measures, the applicant would pose a danger to other prisoners and the prison officers. the applicant had the right to make telephone calls and send letters. between 5 september 2012 and 13 march 2013 the applicant participated in a social reintegration programme entitled “the right moment” (focusing on issues such as the mapping of problems, emotions and thoughts; expression and verbalisation of feelings; coping with conflict and tolerating different viewpoints) and between 27 march and 31 july 2013 in the “anger management” programme. on 23 august 2016 a psychiatrist issued a certificate stating that, based on a psychological assessment, the applicant did not have an irrational fear of forests (see paragraphs 41 and 58 below).
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in zagreb. on 24 july and 1 september 2000 police experts examined the car and established that its vehicle identification number (vin) was genuine. in the meantime, on 21 july 2000 the police asked the canadian interpol office to check whether the applicant’s car and two other vehicles were being sought by the police in canada, under whose name they had been registered, whether they had been registered for export, and whether the car documents were genuine. on 29 december 2000 the police asked the zagreb state attorney’s office (općinsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu) to decide on the status of the vehicle. on 18 march 2002 the police asked the canadian interpol office to expedite the handling of their request for information. by a decision of 2 may 2002 the zagreb state attorney’s office ordered that the car be returned to the applicant, whereupon, on 7 may 2002, the police did so. on 22 july 2003 the applicant brought a civil action for compensation against the state in the zagreb municipal court (općinski sud u zagrebu). he sought 55,275.95 croatian kunas (hrk; approximately 7,126 euros (eur) at the relevant time) in compensation. the opinion of an expert obtained by the court during the proceedings suggested that the cost of repairing the applicant’s car amounted to hrk 35,275.95 and that its value had dropped by hrk 22,000. by a judgment of 16 december 2008 the municipal court dismissed the applicant’s civil action. its decision was upheld on 30 june 2009 by the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu). the courts held that the temporary seizure of the applicant’s car had been lawful as it had been based on articles 177, 184 and 218 of the code of criminal procedure, and that therefore the state could not be held liable for damages. on 23 january 2014 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint and served its decision on his representative on 7 february 2014. the constitutional court also examines such decisions by judicial and other authorities if it finds that the contested decision, having regard to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, is based on an unacceptable legal view or is so wrong and lacking in sound legal reasoning that it can be described as arbitrary. therefore, the complainant’s right of ownership guaranteed by article 48 of the constitution was not breached by the contested judgments.”
on 11 august 2006 the applicant, who suffered from schizophrenia, was arrested in his parents’ flat following an argument with his relatives. the court, in connection with that incident, in its judgment of v.d. 15526/10, 8 november 2011) found that the investigation into the applicant’s arguable claim of ill-treatment by the police during the arrest had not been effective, contrary to the requirements of the procedural limb of article 3 of the convention. on 8 march 2013 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) ordered the reopening of the proceedings against the police officers, s.p. the applicant was then summoned to appear on 30 october 2014. on 5 november 2014 the applicant’s lawyer asked the state attorney’s office to send her a copy of the record of the applicant’s questioning. on 28 november 2014 a copy of the record was sent to her. who had witnessed the incident, as well as the relevant police officers. the police officers denied ill-treating the applicant. when they had approached him, the applicant had started to resist so they had decided to handcuff him. concerning the injuries which the applicant had sustained following his arrest. stressed that, likewise, the tongue laceration which the applicant had sustained could have been caused by his fall and by him banging his head against the stretcher. also explained that, having seen the photographs of the applicant taken after the incident, he did not believe that the injuries he had sustained had been caused by beating, but were likely to have been caused by the commotion during the arrest. the applicant was informed that he could take over the proceedings as a subsidiary prosecutor. the injuries on his face had not been properly documented but such injuries were usually caused by punches delivered with lesser intensity.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. according to the government, the applicant was holding an irregular gathering without prior notification and was shouting political slogans. on 15 march 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. the court questioned one further eyewitness, a journalist, who testified that before being arrested the applicant was standing “in a fountain, holding hands with others” and chanting political slogans. the group stopped on the stairs of a public building for a group photograph. they were surrounded by riot police and the applicant was arrested without any order or warning. the applicant was released at 2.50 a.m. on 9 may 2012. he was among 50 to 100 people peacefully “walking about” and discussing current affairs. the justice of the peace refused the applicant’s requests that the police officers who had arrested him be called and examined, and that video evidence be admitted, but granted his request for examination of three eyewitnesses. and had refused to leave the square, which needed to be cleared for the victory day celebrations. at 3.30 p.m. the police arrested the applicant at 9 maroseyka street when he was walking down the street accompanied by a group of people. 387 of the basmannyy district examined the charges. the applicant’s request for two eyewitnesses to be examined was granted. on the basis of the written reports by the two police officers, the judge found the applicant guilty of taking part in a meeting which had not been notified to the competent authority in accordance with the procedure provided by law, and fined him rub 10,000 (equivalent to about eur 200) under article 20 § 2 of the code of administrative offences. on 22 may 2014 the moscow city court upheld the judgment of 7 march 2014.
the first applicant was born in 1955 and at the time of the events lived in baku. the medical documentation in the case file shows that the first applicant suffered from a number of serious illnesses before his arrest. he also suffered from a number of cardiovascular diseases and twice underwent surgery on his heart. as a result of the above-mentioned illnesses, he had very limited physical mobility. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“the court bench considers that the first-instance court, having taken into account that a. aslanov could obstruct the investigation, the nature of the criminal act, and the fact that the punishment for committing such an act is over two years’ imprisonment, was correct in considering it necessary to apply the preventive measure of remand in custody in respect of him. on 22 june 2007 the first applicant’s state of health significantly deteriorated and he was urgently transferred to the medical facility of the penitentiary service (“the medical facility”). a post mortem report dated 25 january 2008 also concluded that the death had resulted from acute heart failure. on 28 february 2008 the first applicant’s family was provided with a copy of that decision. it does not appear from the case file that that decision was appealed. on 9 july 2007 the investigator in charge of the case ordered a forensic medical examination. on 27 september and 11 october 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer asked the ministry of justice to provide him with a copy of the document listing the serious illnesses precluding the detention of prisoners. on 23 november 2007 the first applicant’s lawyer lodged a civil action with the sabail district court, complaining of incompatibility of the first applicant’s detention with his state of health and inadequate medical treatment. on an unspecified date the criminal investigation was completed and the case was referred to the assize court for trial. on 5 october 2007 the assize court held a preliminary hearing. but that the planned murder had not been completed for reasons beyond his own control.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in zheleznodorozhnyy, moscow region. the applicant was a locomotive driver with russian railways in the moscow region. as the negotiations failed, the trade union decided to organise a strike. on 25 april 2008 the trade union committee decided that the staff of russian railways in two suburban moscow sectors should participate in the strike as from 4 a.m. on 28 april 2008. on 28 april 2008 the applicant took part in the strike. he came to work but refused to take up his duties. on 9 july 2008 the applicant was dismissed for two breaches of disciplinary rules. the first breach ascribed to him had had no relation to his trade union activities. ( the second breach was the applicant’s refusal to take up his duties during the strike on 28 april 2008. on 19 august 2008 the case was heard by the meschanskiy district court of moscow (“the district court”). the court confirmed the lawfulness of the applicant’s dismissal for a repeated failure to properly perform his professional duties. the court stressed that those limitations were aimed at securing safety on the railway and that railway workers were subjected to stricter disciplinary rules than workers in other sectors of industry. the applicant was a locomotive driver; therefore, his work was directly linked to the circulation of trains, shunting, and the provision of services to passengers. relying on a report dated 29 april 2008 issued by the moscow interregional transport prosecutor’s office, the district court furthermore noted that the strike had caused a number of cancelled and delayed trains which had resulted in “massive violations of the rights and lawful interests of citizens, leading to their belated arrival at their workplaces and educational institutions, at medical facilities providing health care, [and] for long-distance trains, bus runs and flights”. on 29 january 2009, following an appeal by the applicant, the moscow city court confirmed the judgment of 19 august 2008.
the applicant, ms violeta pulfer, is an albanian national who was born in 1967 and lives in tirana. on 30 october 2012, with police assistance, the applicant entered the house and found that it had been emptied. on 10 september 2012 a police officer referred the offence of self‑administered justice against s.n. on 4 october 2012 the applicant lodged another criminal complaint against s.n. on 4 october 2012 the prosecutor opened criminal investigation no. for the offence of malicious use of telephone calls under article 275 of the cc. on 8 october 2012 the prosecutor decided to join the two investigations, nos. on 17 january 2013 the forensic experts confirmed that strangulation marks and haematomata on the head as a result of the events of 8 september 2012 and a suture (as a result of surgery) had been found on the applicant’s body. ...[the applicant] alleges that on the day of the accident she suffered serious bodily injuries, as a result of which she had to undergo surgery. is] also [suspected of] the offences laid down in articles 89 and 275 of the criminal code ....on 28 november 2012 [the general amnesty act] entered into force. on 18 may 2015 the vlora district court had dismissed the applicant’s complaint. on 15 september 2015 the vlora court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant for the same reasons as given by the vlora district court. for the offence of theft under article 134 of the cc in relation to the event of 30 october 2012. on 6 december 2012 the applicant made another statement before the prosecutor, complaining of, amongst other things, the theft of her belongings that had occurred on 30 october 2012. it appears that the investigation is still ongoing.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is detained in labytnangi, yamalo-nenetskiy region. on 22 may 2008 the applicant arrived at the ik-8 correctional colony, yamalo-nenetskiy region. on 31 march 2008 the applicant’s wife instituted divorce proceedings. on 9 april 2008 the justice of the peace of circuit no. 2 of the krasnosulinskiy district of the rostov region (“justice of the peace”) sent a letter rogatory to the courts of tyumen region, asking them to interview the applicant and to establish whether he wished to attend the hearing in person. on 22 april 2008 the tyumen regional division of the judicial department received the letter. on 4 july 2008 a justice of the peace in labytnangi fixed an interview with the applicant for 18 july 2008 and sent two summonses to his home address, which his wife had listed in her statement of claim. both summonses were returned undelivered. on the same day the justice of the peace decided to hold a hearing in the applicant’s absence, noting that although the applicant had his registered residence at the address mentioned by the plaintiff, he had not appeared for an interview before the justice of the peace. on 18 september 2008 the justice of the peace granted the divorce. on the same day a copy of the decision was sent to the applicant’s home address. on 20 november 2013, the applicant learnt of the judgment of 18 september 2008. he asked for an extension of the time-limit for lodging an appeal against it. he argued that he had never received the judgment of 18 september 2008 and that he had been previously unaware of the divorce proceedings. the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision.
the applicant was born in 1995 and lives in republic of dagestan. in response to a complaint lodged by the applicant’s father, the authorities instituted a preliminary inquiry during which p., an investigator, questioned the applicant (who provided a detailed account of the above-mentioned events), subjected the applicant to a gynaecological examination (which did not detect any traces of sexual assault on the applicant’s body), conducted an inspection of the locations where the alleged rapes had taken place and collected wet towel wipes found at the location of the “t.l.” area (the applicant having explained that one of the rapists had wiped himself with a towel wipe). on 18 july 2012 the applicant’s lawyer submitted a dvd with a video recording of one of the alleged occasions. on 20 july 2012 the investigator examined the video recording. having examined the material obtained in the course of the inquiry, p., the investigator, discerned no evidence to support the applicant’s allegations of rape and on 26 july 2012 issued a decision declining to open a criminal investigation against the alleged perpetrators. on 2 august 2012 the head of the inter-district investigative committee quashed the decision of 26 july 2012, noting that the investigator had not questioned all the alleged perpetrators and had failed to obtain the results of the forensic examination. on 13 january 2014 the first deputy head of the republican investigative committee determined that the criminal investigation had been incomplete and perfunctory and quashed the decision of 6 december 2013, ordering a further investigation. on 25 february 2014 d. discontinued the criminal investigation, noting that there was no evidence, except for the applicant’s statements, implicating seven of the alleged perpetrators. on 20 august 2014 the supreme court upheld the said decision on appeal. on 29 january 2015 the district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 16 may 2014. on the same date the investigative committee discontinued the criminal investigation. after the reopening of the case, the investigator questioned dzh.a., it should be also taken into consideration ... that a significant amount of time has passed since the crimes were committed.” no explanation was given for the failure to submit the complete case file, as had been requested.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in st petersburg before his arrest. the investigator stated that it had been established based on the video recording of the applicant’s arrest that in the course of his arrest the applicant had been “knocked down” (повален) to the ground, where had remained lying for some time, face down and motionless. the expert further reiterated the conclusions made in the previous report about the other possible causes of the injuries such as being struck and, in particular, that he did not exclude the possibility that the applicant’s injuries to his abdomen, taking into account their nature and localisation, could have equally been caused by being kicked in that area one or more times, as was alleged by the applicant. on the dates specified below, and pursuant to article 24 § 1 (2) of the ccrp, sh. k. and p., the police officers of the criminal investigation department who participated in the applicant’s arrest, stated that they had not seen the precise moment of his arrest, that is to say when he had been apprehended and laid face down on the ground by a. and b.s. k. and p. had not noticed any visible injuries on him after his arrest. participated in the search of the applicant’s car after his arrest as an attesting witness, together with m. according to a.b., according to o., the applicant had behaved quietly and not made any complaints. the police officers had neither threatened nor physically assaulted him. she had not noticed any visible injuries on him. after the search of the apartment, the applicant had gone downstairs without protest. оказал неповиновение, пытался скрыться, в результате чего в отношении него были применены приемы самбо и спец. the investigator noted that the applicant’s injuries, as recorded on 5 and 8 july 2013, had been caused within the last fourteen to fifteen days. on 26 june 2015 the oktyabrskiy district court of st petersburg found the refusal of 18 december 2014 unlawful and unsubstantiated, and the investigating authorities were ordered to rectify the deficiencies. on 2 august 2016 the st petersburg city court dismissed an appeal by the applicant against the district court’s judgment.
at the material time, the applicant was one of the co-chairs of the peoples’ democratic party (hdp), a left-wing pro-kurdish political party. bu saatten itibaren milyonlar sokaklara akmalı, sınır insan seline dönüşmelidir. fakat bu partinin yöneticilerinin bu işin bedelini ödemeleri gerekir diyorum. halkımız her yerde baskı politikalarına katliam politikalarına karşı direnebilecek güçtedir. those who try to downplay it by calling it [resistance of] ditches and holes should look back at history. the turkish public is of the view that members of parliament who support terrorism and the terrorist[s] and call for violence are abusing their [parliamentary] immunity, and has urged the turkish grand national assembly to allow the prosecution of anyone carrying out such activities. (i) in a speech he had given in batman on 27 october 2012 in the offices of the peace and democracy party (“the bdp”, a left-wing pro-kurdish political party), the applicant had disseminated propaganda in favour of the pkk terrorist organisation by urging people to close their shops and not to send their children to school as a protest aimed at securing the release of the pkk leader. kürt halkı evet bugün biz sadece söylemiyoruz, bizi eleştirenler de söylüyordu, pkk hareketi olmasaydı bugün kürt halkı diye bir şey türkiye kürdistan’ı için en azından olmayacaktı. on 17 november 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. he complained firstly of a violation of his right to liberty and security and his right to engage in political activities. with regard to the complaint concerning the lawfulness of the applicant’s arrest and detention in police custody, it held that he should have brought an action under article 141 § 1 (a) of the ccp but had refrained from doing so. in that context, the applicant had alleged that his detention had prevented him from carrying out his political activities. 2013/9895); and three years, ten months and five days in gülser yıldırım (no. in a dissenting opinion, the judge in the minority expressed the view that, since the applicant was a candidate in the presidential election, he should be released pending trial in accordance with article 67 of the constitution and article 3 of protocol no. on 7 september 2018, in the context of separate criminal proceedings, the ankara assize court, on the basis of section 7(2) of the prevention of terrorism act (law no.
the first applicant was born in 1941 and lives in istanbul. she invited the first applicant to provide her with the documents requested previously within fifteen days. applied to the şişli public prosecutor’s office in the name of the tax inspectorate, requesting a warrant to search three addresses related to the applicant company. searched the applicant company’s premises and seized a number of documents. on 23 january 2001 the tax inspectorate requested an extension of the audit period, on account of the substantial number of documents seized during the search and the fact that the applicant company had not submitted the missing documents until 23 december 2000. compiled three records, listing in detail the information obtained from the seized documents and putting certain questions to the applicants in respect of those. drew up a tax-assessment report, noting several irregularities in the applicant company’s financial records and payment of taxes, in particular with regard to the amount it had obtained as a result of the payment made to it by the iron and steel company. with regard to the procedure, the applicant company claimed that both the search and the audit had been conducted unlawfully. lastly, the audit had been carried out unlawfully after the expiry of the period indicated in the warrant issued by the domestic court. referring to section 139 of the tax procedure act, the court held that the applicants’ behaviour before the search, as well as their failure to submit the required documents and to respond to the tax inspectors’ letters, had made it clear that the audit could not be conducted at the applicant company’s premises. as for the tax and the penalty imposed, the court held that despite certain flaws in the tax inspector’s methods, the findings of the tax-assessment report were reliable. on 27 april 2004 the supreme administrative court upheld the judgments. both seizure measures were found to be unlawful and were annulled by the istanbul tax court. on 14 october 2002 the governorship of istanbul delivered a decision. the court did not mention the search and seizure.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in seville. claimed that they had attached themselves to the floor of the room in such a way that they were not able to release themselves. negotiations were held throughout the whole day, yet they were unsuccessful. at around 8.30 p.m. the applicant also decided to end his protest. were immediately arrested and brought before a judge. he reports discomfort in both wrists but no visible haematological signs are at present detectable. interview and patient history rule out any decrease of his cognitive or volitional abilities, [patient thus] fit to give statement at this very moment.” on 1 december 2007 the applicant participated in a press conference during which he commented on the eviction and the techniques the police and fire fighters had used during the confinement. the wrist inside the tube started to swell ... he was not able to open the padlock for a full day ...[t]o me, instead of fixing the rope to my free wrist, they fixed it to my waist and they repeated what they had done to r.d.p.: this judge ordered the opening of an investigation, as a result of which the applicant was charged with slander and defamation. the criminal judge considered that the first action carried out by the police (that is to say fixing a rope to their waist and wrist, respectively, and using force in an attempt to pull them out) had been a proportionate technique with the purpose of verifying whether the applicant and r.d.p. the purpose behind this was to make them release themselves voluntarily. in reply to the argument that the word “torture” had been used colloquially, the judge considered the following:“[t]he applicant’s repetition of the word torture reveals that it was not an occasional and exceptional use of such word in place, but it was exposed and expressed in full awareness and repeatedly in order to get the message across to listeners, i.e., that the applicant had been subject to torture by police officers and fire fighters.” the audiencia provincial upheld the remaining elements of the first-instance judgment. this type of expression could not be limited by strict criminal-legal definitions.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in berlin. the letter also stated that he was given the opportunity to submit written or oral comments and that he was free, at any time, even before being questioned, to consult defence counsel to be chosen by him. on 7 march 2011 the berlin tiergarten district court issued a penal order (strafbefehl) against the applicant, finding him guilty of libel and two counts of assault against s. and b., a guest at the event in question, and sentencing him to 80 day-fines of eur 30 each. on 12 may 2011 s.’s lawyer, in the context of the criminal proceedings, lodged civil claims for compensation under articles 403 et seq. the applicant was given the opportunity to submit written comments on this and made use of that opportunity. the following day the main hearing took place, lasting for some 75 minutes. the district court orally heard s. as well as b. and m., the latter two having been present at the event in question, as witnesses and also evaluated a medical certificate concerning the injuries sustained by s. it convicted the applicant of libel and two counts of assault and sentenced him to a fine of 90 day-fines of eur 15 each. the applicant had made written submissions setting out his position prior to the hearing and was orally heard by the district court. on 26 may 2011 the applicant lodged an appeal on facts and law. he claimed that representation by defence counsel had been necessary, given that the private accessory prosecutor s. had been represented by counsel who had been present at the main hearing. on 14 march 2012 the berlin court of appeal dismissed the appeal on points of law, save for allowing the applicant to pay the fine in instalments. the legislature had deliberately chosen to limit the presumption that an accused cannot defend himself to cases where the competent court had appointed counsel for the victim for the private accessory prosecution in accordance with articles 397a and 406g §§ 3 and 4 of the code (see paragraph 20 below). there were legitimate reasons for that distinction, given that counsel was appointed for the private accessory prosecutor for victims of certain grave offences or where the victim was not able to safeguard his interests sufficiently, or could not be expected to do so, including in scenarios which gave rise to particular factual or legal difficulties. in such a scenario, the individual circumstances of the case had to be assessed in order to determine whether defence counsel had to be appointed. counsel for s. had only acted in respect of the civil claims.
the applicant was born in 1946 and lives in yerevan. relying on forensic medical opinions nos. ’s will to the notary and gave his acceptance to inherit her apartment. it appears that on 11 july 2007 additional post-mortem forensic medical examinations following the exhumation of the bodies of m.g. 22 and 23 had correctly determined the causes of their death and, if not, whether it was possible that they had died as a result of having been poisoned. on 7 august 2007 the investigator decided to start an investigation on account of forgery. whom he knew, had visited him in his home to hand over some documents to him, namely a will and other documents from the notary informing him that she had bequeathed her apartment to him. on 21 december 2007 a forensic technical and toxicological examination was completed. were ordered, and they were completed on 27 june 2008. at the hearing of 26 august 2008, the opinions of all expert witnesses were read out aloud. at the hearing of 25 september 2008, the applicant’s representative requested again the examination of the expert witnesses but his request was orally rejected by the trial court judge. it was not necessary to call the expert witnesses. on 21 october 2008 the yerevan criminal court found the applicant guilty of two counts of aggravated murder committed for gain and sentenced him to life imprisonment. in doing so, it mostly relied on the trial statements of the victims’ relatives and neighbours, who confirmed that the applicant had visited the sisters in their apartment several times; on the expert opinions; and on material evidence seized from the applicant’s apartment, namely the originals of the ownership certificate in respect of v.g. on 28 july 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicant’s appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
in 2005 to 2006 the applicant was prosecuted for various crimes. from 4 october 2006 to 20 march 2008 the applicant was detained at correctional colony no. m and containing twelve double bunk beds. they submitted photographs supposedly corroborating their submissions in that regard. in particular, he alleged that he had been beaten on arrival at the colony on 4 october 2006 and that the guards had tried to place him into a psychiatric clinic in march 2007. 78 in the village of raikivtsi, khmelnytsk region (hereinafter “the second colony”), where he stayed until his release on 25 may 2012. they submitted that the food supply had been in accordance with the relevant regulations and regularly checked. in support of their submissions they submitted a number of logs and reports from the prison authorities showing that portions compliant with the regulations in force had been distributed to the prisoners, and that the sanitary conditions had been checked and found to be appropriate. they also submitted several statements from inmates who alleged that they had served time with the applicant and stated that the conditions of their detention, particularly in terms of the provision of food, clothes and sanitary conditions, had been appropriate. it appears from the documents submitted by the parties that the applicant complained many times to various domestic authorities, notably the prosecutor’s office, alleging, in general, ill-treatment and persecution by the prison authorities. in may and august 2010 he withdrew two of his complaints, stating that they had been lodged in a state of heightened emotions. registers of incoming and outgoing mail from the correctional colonies submitted by the government show that, in the period from 17 june 2008 to 1 december 2011 – the only period of the applicant’s detention for which specific information in this regard is available – the applicant sent and received more than sixty letters to and from various public entities, most notably various domestic courts, disciplinary commissions of judges, members of parliament and the presidential administration. under domestic law (see paragraph 21 below) this correspondence was subject to monitoring by the prison authorities. the prison registers show that the applicant also corresponded extensively with other entities, namely prosecutors, the parliamentary commissioner for human rights and the court. he said that the lawyer, by seeking to derive financial benefit from the case, had demonstrated conduct unworthy of his status.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in novosibirsk. the applicant was charged with and subsequently found guilty of murdering his father and uncle. on 29 november 2007 the supreme court held a new appeal hearing in which the applicant took part by means of a video link and was represented by state-appointed counsel, a. the court upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction. noting that the applicant had been unable to enjoy effective legal assistance before the appellate court, it found a violation of article 6 § 1 of the convention taken in conjunction with article 6 § 3 (c) thereof. on 5 april 2012 the supreme court upheld, in substance, the applicant’s conviction on appeal. she did not submit fresh grounds for appeal and made submissions to the court that appeared to be based on the grounds for appeal originally filed by the applicant and counsel a. the applicant, who was detained in novosibirsk, took part in the hearing by means of a video link. period of detentioncell size (square metres)number of sleeping placesnumber of inmates322from 7 to 8 february 20. there was a toilet cabin which ensured complete privacy for the person using it. the windows in the cells had small vents, which could be kept open to ensure access to fresh air. during the daytime the cells were lit with a 95-watt electric bulb. the central heating system was always in a good working order. the bed sheets were changed each time the inmates took a shower. the flush was broken and the toilet caused a constant unpleasant smell in the cell. m. from 7 february to 16 march 2012 ... the cell was overpopulated and the personal space afforded to the inmates was 2.2 sq. according to the applicant, he received the compensation awarded to him by the judgment of 10 september 2013 in july 2016.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lived in martin. in 2006 she was recognised as “severely disabled” with 60% “functional impairment” pursuant to the relevant national laws. this type of action required mandatory legal representation. accordingly, the action was submitted through a lawyer. the applicant also sought an order for costs. eur 130 was claimed in respect of one such act along with an associated lump sum for overheads; the whole claim came to some eur 260. on 2 january, 29 february and 23 march 2012 the applicant made further submissions. in the former two, she proactively informed the court that the land office had taken decisions in respect of her restitution claim on 23 december 2011 and 12 january 2012 and contended that these decisions did not determine her claim in relation to all the plots concerned and that they had been taken with the aim of creating a false impression that there had been no unjustified delays in the proceedings. on 10 april 2012 the regional court granted the action and made an order for costs. as to the latter ruling, it summarised the applicant’s claim as pertaining to three acts of legal assistance (the first consultation with a lawyer, the formulation of the action, and the formulation of the submission of 2 january 2012). it found that the applicant had correctly calculated the value of the act of legal assistance and that the undertaking by her lawyer of those acts had been justified. the regional court’s decision was not amenable to appeal. on 14 june 2012 the constitutional court declared the complaint inadmissible. accordingly, her complaint was rejected as manifestly ill-founded. the decision was served on 3 august 2012 and no appeal lay against it.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in çorum. was appointed by the bar association to represent him. had a private meeting to discuss the case that lasted for eight minutes. he did not admit to any affiliation to the organisation. the lawyer, alleging that the police officers were recording phrases that had not been said by the applicant, also requested that the police officers remove that part of the applicant’s statement. on 20 march 2004 at the request of the police officers, a new lawyer was appointed for the applicant. subsequently, the applicant had allowed them to visit the friend together. on 21 march 2004 the applicant was brought before the public prosecutor and investigating judge respectively. on 22 march 2004 the applicant’s detention was ordered in absentia. on 29 march 2004 the public prosecutor at the istanbul state security court filed a bill of indictment against the applicant, charging him with aiding and abetting an illegal organisation under article 169 of the former criminal code. on 4 march 2005 the applicant was released pending trial. at a hearing held on 24 december 2007 the applicant, at his request, made his final submissions to the erzurum assize court about the decision of the court of cassation. criminal proceedings against the police officers 26. subsequently, during the course of the applicant’s interview when he had informed him that he had the right to remain silent, one of the officers had shouted at him saying that he was “ill-mannered” (terbiyesizlik). 765) and article 223 of the new code of criminal procedure (law no.
the applicants, who are brothers, were born in 1964 and 1962 respectively and live in mardin. on 26 january 2000 he was questioned by the police. it thus suspended the criminal proceedings against the first applicant. the decision became final on 31 october 2007. in respect of the second applicant, the teachers said that they knew him to be religious but that they had not witnessed him engaging in any ideological propaganda at school. the principal and vice-principal stated that they had not witnessed or been made aware of anything to suggest that the applicants had connections with the illegal organisation. the applicants denied the allegations and stated that they wanted to return to their duties as soon as possible. relying on his right to be presumed innocent, on 18 february 2002 the first applicant challenged that decision before the regional administrative court. it therefore held that he could not be dismissed from public service for membership of a terrorist organisation without a final conviction. the case was remitted to the diyarbakır administrative court. on 21 june 2005 the first applicant appealed against the judgment of the diyarbakır administrative court to the supreme administrative court, requesting a stay of the decision ordering for his dismissal from service. c.  proceedings before the administrative courts against the dismissal of the second applicant 29. he complained, inter alia, that the criminal proceedings on charges of membership of an illegal organisation were still pending before the diyarbakır state security court and that, therefore, his dismissal without a conviction on the basis of abstract accusations infringed the presumption of innocence; that the allegations that he had disturbed the peace and order at the workplace remained completely unproven and unsubstantiated; and that in delivering its decision, the supreme disciplinary council had failed to comply with the six-month time‑limit set out in law no. referring to the second applicant’s statements given to the police, his cv obtained from the hizbullah safe house in istanbul and the bill of indictment filed against him by the mardin public prosecutor, the supreme administrative court then found it established that the second applicant was a member of a terrorist organisation who in addition had recruited members to the organisation and pursued the ideology of the terrorist organisation in the classroom. on 27 may 2009 the diyarbakır administrative court transferred the case to the mardin administrative court, which was deemed to be the court with jurisdiction in the instant case.
on various dates in the 1990s the employer of the adult male applicants (applicants 1, 3, 5 and 10), the security service of the ministry of finance, provided them with accommodation in its dormitory building in moscow. they were registered as living in the building on a temporary basis. in 2001 the right of operational management in respect of the dormitory building was transferred to the federal treasury (“the treasury”). the third and fifth applicants resigned from the security service in 2004 and 2009 respectively, but continued to live in the dormitory building. according to the government, the first applicant was dismissed from the security service in 2014. the adult male applicants are registered as living in the dormitory building on a permanent basis. each family occupies a room in the building. having regard to the above, the district court concluded that articles 53 and 54 of the old housing code and articles 69 and 70 of the new housing code, which allowed tenants under a social tenancy agreement to move members of their families into a property, were not applicable to the adult female applicants, and therefore they had to be evicted from the occupied housing without any alternative accommodation being provided. in january 2008 bailiffs instituted enforcement proceedings. on 5 february 2009 new enforcement proceedings were instituted. in 2009 the treasury brought new eviction proceedings against the adult female applicants. the treasury claimed that those applicants had started living on the premises without its permission. they claimed that the applicants who were minors were registered as living in the dormitory building and lived there with their families. on 24 november 2010 the city court upheld the eviction order. on 17 august 2011 the district court granted the claims of the adult male applicants and the minor applicants in part.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in istanbul. on 11 december 1995 the applicant, a traffic control officer, was hit by a car while on duty. he suffered bodily injuries as a result of the accident. an official disability report indicated that he had a reduced working capacity of 60%. on the basis of this report the applicant, while reserving the right to increase his claims in due course, made an initial request for compensation to the ministry of interior, claiming 20,000 turkish liras (try) in pecuniary damages and try 5,000 in non-pecuniary damages. following tacit dismissal of the claim by the ministry, the applicant brought a case for compensation before the istanbul administrative court for the amounts he had specified in his request to the ministry. during the course of the proceedings, the court decided of its own motion to order an expert report to determine the exact amount of pecuniary damage suffered by the applicant. the report, which was submitted to the court on 26 september 2005, indicated the applicant’s pecuniary damages as 157,077 try. the applicant did not submit a request to the court to increase his initial claims in the light of that report. the istanbul administrative court in its decision delivered on 15 february 2006 only awarded him the amounts initially requested by him.
the second applicant was born in 1957 and lives in prilep. on 8 november 2008 seven persons, including the second applicant, founded the applicant association. ...”article 9“as part of its activity, the church will publish literature with orthodox content and establish funds, in particular, for:-  publication of bulletins and periodicals ...;-  publication of chronicles concerning the work of the members;-  publication of books;-  creation of funds for financial aid.” article 27“the church will be financed by:-  economic activities;-  sponsorship;-  donations;-  voluntary contributions and funds, and so forth.” on 3 december 2008 the second applicant, acting as an authorised representative of the applicant association, submitted an application for its registration as a religious association. as stated in the application, it appended, inter alia, evidence that its founding members were macedonian nationals. on 5 january 2009 the applicants replied that the applicant association sought registration as a church. on 6 march 2009 the registration court rejected the application as incomplete. whereas it confirmed that nationality documentation was in the file, the court held that it was unable to establish whether the application for registration had been submitted in good time. that decision was quashed on appeal by the skopje court of appeal, which found no reasons why the registration court had not sought that the applicants complete the application in that respect by its request of 19 december 2008. on 10 may 2010 the registration court dismissed “the application of the applicant association” for registration, finding that it had requested registration as a religious entity under the legal status of churches, religious communities and religious groups act (“the 2007 act”) only for formal reasons, while in practice it would operate as an association of citizens to which the association of citizens and foundations act applied. in this connection, the court held that: (a) the text of article 1 of the charter was not identical to the text of section 2 of the 2007 act; (b) articles 9 and 10 of the charter specified that the applicant association would publish literature with religious content and would create funds, which, according to the court, was contrary to the aims specified in section 2 of the 2007 act. on 16 december 2010 the skopje court of appeal upheld the lower court’s decision, finding that the reasoning contained therein was clear and consistent. furthermore, the permission granted by the ministry of justice of 26 november 2008 (see paragraph 6 above) concerned “the church of real orthodox christians” and not “the church of real orthodox christians of macedonia”. the court did not address the remaining complaints.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is detained in verona, italy, in connection with criminal charges unrelated to the present case. she suffered multiple cuts, including a penetrating chest wound, which led to pneumothorax. she was hospitalised in an intensive-care unit. according to the subsequent findings of the domestic court which convicted the applicant of aggravated robbery (see paragraph 18 below), the applicant had attacked g., whom he had known previously, and seized a certain amount of cash belonging to her employer, the company that ran the shop. however, g. had attacked him with scissors and, trying to defend himself, he had hit her back, seized the scissors from her and stabbed her with them. allegedly, his request for a lawyer was ignored. on 14 november 2005 the applicant appealed to the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”). on 2 february 2006 the vice-president of the court of appeal asked the regional bar association to assign a lawyer for the applicant. the applicant was free to hire such a lawyer himself. following his arrest, in july and august 2005 the applicant was allegedly held in a police station, a hospital and a police temporary detention facility. according to the government, at the sizo the applicant was held in the following cells:cell no. on one occasion in october 2011 he was diagnosed with high blood pressure and was given the relevant medication. no other complaints in this respect were recorded. on 28 january 2008 the applicant’s representative engaged a lawyer practising in kharkiv to visit him in prison and advise him on legal matters. on 23 august 2010 the registry pointed out to the applicant that his application was incomplete and asked him to provide copies of:(i)  his first appeal;(ii)  his requests for the appointment of a legal aid lawyer;(iii)  his appeal on points of law.
former nuns in the macedonian orthodox church (“moc”), founded the applicant association. this is so because all other churches consider its teaching heretical and wrong. we ... do not want to waste our life in religious doubt ... to be led by immature and non-religious people ... we would be offended on religious grounds if we are associated with another religious community ...” 5. on the same date, the founding members created the following official documents: (a) a founding decision; (b) decisions authorising o.m. to represent the applicant association and submit an application for its registration; and (c) the charter (статут) of the applicant association. article 3“because it is a christian religious community ...” 7. article 2“the stavropegic monastery of saint john chrysostom is a religious community founded by nuns (completely devoted to god) and private citizens (световни лица), whose religious beliefs correspond to the old and new testament (the bible). ” the above‑mentioned documents were appended to the application. on 10 december 2008 the registration court requested that the applicant association submit evidence concerning the nationality of its founding members, a requirement with which the applicant association complied. it found that the application for registration did not meet the requirements laid down in sections 1 and 2 of the 2007 act on the legal status of a church, religious community and association (“the 2007 act”, see paragraphs 14 and 15 below) in that (a) it referred to a form of voluntary association of physical persons which was not covered by the act and (b) the registration of the applicant association “would violate the freedom of religion ‑ provided for in the convention and the constitution ‒ of other lawfully registered voluntary associations of physical persons”. the court did not elaborate further on the second ground on which it based its decision. the applicant association complained about that decision, arguing that it had sought to be registered as a religious community under the name specified in the founding documents, which was evident from the application for registration. it also submitted that non-registration was a very drastic measure (in this connection it argued that the court should have indicated any shortcomings that were to be rectified). on 29 april 2009 the skopje court of appeal dismissed the applicant association’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision, endorsing the reasons given therein. lodged an appeal with the constitutional court complaining of a violation of freedom of thought and discrimination on religious grounds owing to the refusal by the registration court to register the religious community with which she was associated.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in chevelcha. on 12 november 2004 criminal proceedings were instituted in respect of the theft of 2 november 2004. according to the record, the applicant confessed to a number of cattle thefts in 2003 and 2004, committed as a part of a group, and provided some details in this respect. no questions were put or remarks made by the investigator. the admissions register of the facility suggests that upon her admission the applicant was found to be suffering from abrasions on her chin, left elbow and hip, a bruise on her right hip and a scratch mark on her left knee. on the same date v. complained to the prosecutor about this fact. on 23 november 2004 v. again complained to the orzhytsya prosecutor’s office that he was still not able to see the applicant and that no response had been given by the prosecutor to his four earlier complaints about violations of the applicant’s defence rights and his rights as her lawyer. on 3 december 2004 a new investigator was appointed to the criminal proceedings concerning the applicant. on 17 december 2004 v. was denied a meeting with the applicant as he had not received any authorisation to do so from the newly appointed investigator to the case. on 22 december 2004, on being notified of her procedural rights in the case concerning the theft committed during the early morning of 2 november 2004, the applicant expressed a wish to be represented by v. on the same date, the investigator admitted v. to these proceedings. on 15 september 2005 the district court found the applicant guilty on a number of counts of theft and sentenced her to five years’ imprisonment. no copy of that decision has been made available to the court. on 29 november 2004 the applicant was transferred to the poltava temporary detention centre (“the poltava sizo”). on 21 december 2004 lawyer v. complained to the poltava prosecutor’s office about the lack of any response to the complaints lodged regarding the applicant’s ill-treatment; the failure to conduct a medical examination of her in the absence of police officers and in the presence of her lawyer; and violations of her defence rights. it noted, inter alia, that the case file contained no explanations by the officers from the orzhytsya and the lubny itts and no information regarding whether the applicant had been provided with medical assistance when in the poltava sizo and whether she had undergone a medical examination with a view to establishing whether she had bodily injuries.
the applicant was born in 1978 and is currently detained in the centre for persons in preventive detention on the premises of straubing prison (hereinafter “the straubing preventive detention centre”). on 22 june 2009 the regensburg regional court, with judge p. sitting on the bench, ordered the applicant’s subsequent preventive detention under section 7(2)(1) of the juvenile courts act, read in conjunction with section 105(1) of the juvenile courts act (see paragraphs 56 and 59 below). on 4 may 2011 the federal constitutional court, in a leading judgment, allowed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. on 29 august 2011 the nuremberg court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s complaint regarding a breach of his right to be heard and his objection to the decision of 16 august 2011. the decision was served on counsel for the applicant on 30 may 2012. by a decision of 28 november 2011 the regensburg regional court upheld the applicant’s provisional preventive detention as ordered on 6 may 2011. however, given the length of time that had elapsed, he neither recalled the precise contents of the discussion nor the exact context in which he had allegedly made the impugned remark. even assuming that the applicant could reasonably consider the sense of the words “thank you” in the above context as meaning that the applicant could commit a violent offence, it had to be noted that the regional court, including judge p., had just established that the applicant still suffered from fantasies of sexual violence and that there was at that time a high risk that he would again commit serious offences against the life and sexual self‑determination of others. the fact that judge p. had previously dealt with the applicant’s case did not in itself render him biased. one of the experts consulted, k., was firmly convinced that the applicant continued to suffer from sexual sadism while the other expert, f., formulated his findings more cautiously, stating that it was certain that the applicant had suffered from sexual sadism in 2005 and that this disorder could not be expected to have disappeared. in an appeal on points of law against the regional court’s judgment of 3 august 2012, the applicant complained of the unlawfulness of his “retrospective” preventive detention and of the fact that the judgment had been delivered with the participation of a biased judge, p. 39. on 11 april 2013 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint with the federal constitutional court. the applicant is currently still in preventive detention. in particular, he was no longer able to undergo any kind of therapy. he took up one-to-one psychotherapy only after the period covered by the proceedings here at issue, from 10 june 2015 until 30 june 2017, with a psychologist from the preventive detention centre.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, were living in the chechen republic. on an unspecified date after the abduction, the second applicant learned from colonel b., an officer at the grozny remand prison, that mr yandayev, mr khamayev and mr z.i. it appears that the investigation is still pending. the whereabouts of mr sultan saynaroyev have remained unknown ever since. on 19 june 2003 the investigation was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 19 february 2007 the applicant asked the head of the chechen parliament to assist in the search for her husband and to expedite the investigation. on 18 august 2006 the supervising prosecutor ordered that that the investigation be resumed. on 6 february 2003 her complaint was forwarded to the chechnya prosecutor’s office, and then to the shali district prosecutor. immediately after the abduction the applicants informed the authorities thereof and requested that criminal proceedings be initiated. he also stated that immediately after mr yusup mezhiyev’s detention he had asked a police officer at the checkpoint about the people who had carried out the arrest. it appears that the applicants were not informed thereof. who witnessed the events, asked one of the servicemen where the three men were being taken. the fourth applicant is the father of mr timerlan akhmadov, who was born in 1980. on 20 may 2005 she was informed that the proceedings had been suspended. on 10 november 2008 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case.
she was in a stable relationship with r. she had two children with him: the second applicant, m.i., in 2010, the relationship broke down and r. moved out of the family home. she feared that they were showing signs of emotional abuse caused by their father. her request was approved by the bailiff on 6 june 2014 and by the bucharest district court on 16 june 2014. in a letter of 26 june 2014 the bailiff asked r. to comply with the court order and to return the children to their mother within ten days. the bailiff scheduled a second meeting for 14 august 2014. following the meeting of 14 august 2014, on 9 september 2014 the bucharest child protection authority asked the bucharest district court to order a two-month psychological counselling programme for the children, under the provisions of article 912 of the code of civil procedure (psychological counselling for children who refuse contact with the estranged parent). the social assistant asked the father to take the children for a psychological evaluation. the plan required cooperation between the social assistant responsible for their case, a psychologist, the school administration and the two parents. on 30 june 2015 r. complained to the bucharest child protection authority that the psychologist had put pressure on the children and induced a state of stress which had required the children’s hospitalisation after one of their meetings. r. contested the enforcement proceedings, but on 9 november 2016 the bucharest district court dismissed his complaint. in a decision of 28 june 2016 the prosecutor’s office refused her request on the grounds that no evidence of ill-treatment had been found. a sudden change in their life would cause them more distress. the court also noted that the first applicant had never been prevented from visiting them, but had chosen not to and had instead demanded that the children be returned to bucharest. the court notes that the first-instance court’s decision to set the children’s home with their father on the grounds that they were attached to him by strong affection and that they refused to communicate with [the first applicant], is the direct consequence of the non-enforcement of decision no.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in znamensk. the applicant is a former military officer. he performed his military service and lived with his family in znamensk, a closed administrative unit (закрытое административно-территориальное образование) of the astrakhan region. the applicant requested the housing authority to modify its earlier decision to include the above persons into the list of family members entitled to the housing certificate. the applicant challenged the refusal in court. the judgment became final on 20 april 2007. on 10 february 2011 the department of the housing policy and the housing fund of moscow conducted a campaign for re-registration of persons in need of housing and sent the applicant a letter setting out a list of eleven documents to be provided, including, among others, a duly certified copy the decision to dismiss the applicant stating the reasons for the dismissal, as well as documents confirming his title to the flat in znamensk. according to the applicant, on 26 march 2011 he sent the requisite documents to the authority by mail. the applicant’s address specified in the letter read as follows: 71 the 9th may avenue, apartment 118. there had been no grounds to provide them with housing. the authority had not received a copy of the judgment of 9 april 2007 for execution. the authority further stated that, pursuant to a decree of the moscow government of 14 february 2012 no. the agreement stipulated that five applicant’s family members, namely, his son, his daughter, his son’s wife and their two children moved into the flat together with the applicant. in 2016 the applicant’s son divorced from his wife. on 6 february 2017 a domestic court granted the applicant’s request to discontinue the son’s ex-wife and their children’s use of the flat.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in malyn, zhytomyr region. on 17 november 1993 m. gave birth to a baby girl, k. given that the applicant had had relations with m. at the relevant time, on 2 december 1993 he accepted paternity of k. by submitting the relevant declaration to the authorities. on 23 march 2000 the applicant married m. they divorced in 2006. in july 2006 the applicant instituted proceedings in the malyn district court against m., challenging the paternity of k. the applicant claimed that, even though he had been married to another woman at the relevant time, he had had relations with m. and he had been sure that he was the father of the child and so accepted the paternity. however, in 2005 he had reason to doubt his paternity. on 24 march 2008 the district court found for the applicant, relying on a genetic expert’s opinion which excluded the possibility of the applicant being k.’s biological father. the court noted that the applicant had a right to challenge his paternity given that there was no evidence in the file to suggest that he had known that he was not the father of the child when accepting paternity of k. 9. m. appealed, stating that from january 1993 she and the applicant had lived together without being married and that she had never had any doubts about the applicant’s paternity of k. she argued, inter alia, that the genetic expert’s opinion was not reliable. on 29 may 2008 the zhytomyr regional court of appeal quashed the first-instance court’s decision and held that, under article 56 of the family and marriage code, the applicant had not had a right to challenge his paternity because at the time that he accepted paternity of k., he was aware that he was not k.’s father. in support of that finding the court of appeal noted that before k.’s birth, the applicant and m. had not been married, they had not lived together (noting, in particular, that between february and april 1993 the applicant lived in another town), and the applicant had been married to another woman at the relevant time. the applicant appealed on a point of law, contending that there were no grounds for the court of appeal to find that at the material time he was aware that he was not the biological father of the child. no such evidence was available in the file and the regional court of appeal had exceeded its powers in drawing such a conclusion. on 9 september 2008 the supreme court of ukraine rejected the appeal by the applicant as unfounded.
the first applicant was born in 1968 and is detained in lukiškės remand prison; the second applicant was born in 1975 and is detained in vilnius correctional facility. in march 2014 the commission decided not to examine the first applicant’s petition as it was not clear enough. in march 2014 the first applicant lodged a new petition with the commission. it also appears from the information submitted by the government that the applicant has a sister, a brother, an aunt, an uncle and a cousin (that is to say close relatives). he alleged that he had been confined to the prison hospital from 22 march until 4 april 2010, from 25 february until 4 march 2011, from 21 until 27 september 2011, and from 17 until 24 january 2014. the court also applied the three-year statutory time‑limit to part of the second applicant’s complaint. however, it held that the first-instance court had erred in determining the relevant amount of personal space. the court held that under domestic regulations, a person confined to the prison hospital had to have at least 5.1 square metres of personal space. the court held that it was impossible to determine how much personal space the second applicant had had between 21 and 27 september 2011; accordingly, it calculated in favour of the second applicant the number of days during which he had not had enough personal space (that is to say the court calculated the number of such days and, in the absence of specific data, stated that the applicant had been held in overcrowded cells for more days than he probably had been held there). on 15 july 2013 the second applicant lodged a request with the administration of vilnius correctional facility to be allowed to receive a portable digital music (mp3) player from j.g., on 20 august 2013 the second applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court regarding the refusal of the administration of vilnius correctional facility to allow him to receive an mp3 player from someone to whom he was not related. the second applicant appealed, and on 30 october 2014 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision. the second applicant found himself in the same position as that of other inmates. his right to have an mp3 player had not been denied, as he could have purchased one. it was not prohibited for persons other than close relatives to give money to convicted inmates; thus, the second applicant could have received money with which to buy an mp3 player.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in luhansk. she has had a first-degree disability since childhood. her injuries included concussion, a fractured jaw and nose, and numerous cuts on her face. they had found the applicant on her bed with her face smashed. on the same date the request was rejected. moreover, b. had died and therefore, in accordance with the law in force, no criminal proceedings could be instituted against her. on 19 february 2013 both investigations were merged. on 9 october 2002 the legal capacity proceedings were terminated because the prosecutor failed to appear at the hearing. the court, having listened to the parties and witnesses and having examined the case material, concluded that on 2 april 1998 as a result of a fight between the applicant and b., “who at the material time was found to be without legal capacity” (яка на той момент була визнана недієздатною), the applicant had received injuries. the court further referred to the decision of the prosecutor’s office of 8 may 1998 (see paragraph 8 above) and held that harm had been inflicted on the applicant as a result of negligence by the asylum employees (orderlies). there is no information to suggest that the asylum complied with the demand. on 15 june 2012 the zhovtnevyy district court allowed the claim. referring to its judgment of 3 october 2006 (see paragraph 15 above), the court established that harm had been inflicted on the applicant as a result of negligence by the asylum employees. on 30 january 2013 the higher specialised civil and criminal court of ukraine, following an appeal by the defendant, quashed the decisions of the lower courts and remitted the case to the first-instance court for fresh consideration. no particular grounds for that assessment were given.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in klaipėda. on 2 july 2013 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of possession of drugs with intention to distribute. on 9 july 2013 the applicant was brought to šiauliai remand prison and was held there until 31 may 2016. following an appeal by the applicant, the judgment became final on 25 may 2016. 53, and the personal space available to him had varied between 1.87 and 3.12 sq. m. this had been a clear violation of domestic norms. for eighty-seven days the applicant had been held in cell no. the court further held that the presence of toilets in the applicant’s cell had not corresponded to the requirements of domestic law, that the lighting had been insufficient and the temperature had been too low, and that the food provided had had insufficient energy value. the applicant’s other complaints were dismissed as unsubstantiated. in october 2014 the applicant lodged a new complaint concerning his material conditions in šiauliai remand prison. it appears that the applicant had asked the prison management to allow him to receive a long-stay visit from his spouse and his sister on 28 april 2014. as regards long-stay visits, the court agreed with šiauliai remand prison and stated that the applicant had not been entitled to them under domestic law; he could have had short visits but, however, he had never asked for them. the court accepted the argument of the šiauliai remand prison that remand detainees had been held in prisons or correctional facilities for short periods of time and they were not in a similar situation to convicted inmates. the court awarded the applicant eur 869 in compensation for the material conditions of his detention. the applicant appealed, and on 21 september 2015 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision in its entirety.
the applicant company operates a popular online news portal in hungary called 444.hu, which averages approximately 250,000 unique users per day. the supporters also waved flags and threw beer bottles, and one of them reportedly urinated in front of the school building. stated that “jobbik came in[1]” (bejött a jobbik). a journalist of the internet news portal. also violated the plaintiffs inherent right to be protected against defamation as the second defendant uploaded the first defendant’s false statement to youtube.com, and the fourth defendant made it available and disseminated it on romaclub.hu, the fifth defendant on 444.hu, the sixth defendant on haon.hu. with regard to the restitution in accordance with paragraph 1 c) of section 84 of the civil code, the court ordered the defendants - pertaining to the infringement they have realized by their proceedings - to make public in the affected websites the first and second paragraphs of the judgment that contain the establishment of the infringement and at the same time affect the plaintiff and declare the falseness of the statement that was made publicly available. he shall be relieved of liability if he is able to prove that he has acted in a manner that can generally be expected in the given situation. this circumstance is rejected and regarded with disdain by a wide layer of society, and it forces the legal person "associated" with such events to explain and clarify its role (or in this case, the lack of its role). on 25 september 2014 the debrecen court of appeal upheld the first-instance decision. thus, even if a media organ prepared a balanced and unbiased article on a matter of public interest, it could still be found to be in violation of the law. two of the defendants also lodged a petition for review with the kúria. it emphasised that, as established by the lower-level courts, its report on the issue had been balanced. had explicitly referred to the political party and its role in the incident. the civil code established objective responsibility for the dissemination, irrespective of the good or bad faith of the disseminator. the constitutional court also reiterated its previous case-law concerning reporting about public figures’ press conferences, stating that such conduct did not qualify as dissemination if the report was unbiased and objective, the statement concerned a matter of public interest, the publisher provided the source of the statement and gave the opportunity to the person concerned by the potentially injurious statement a possibility to react.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in zmiyiv. on 29 november 2005 the kharkiv regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) partly amended the first-instance judgment. m., a dining room, a shower room and a toilet room. from april to december 2006 the applicant shared his room with fifty other prisoners. as from december 2006 onwards he was confined in another room of the same unit, measuring 48 sq. m each, had no ventilation, and accommodated twelve inmates in each compartment. according to the government, the applicant was detained in unit no. 8, in which inmates suffering from tuberculosis were to serve their sentences. m. and consisted of three bedrooms measuring 10.1 sq. m respectively, which were equipped with necessary furniture. according to the prison’s schedule, the inmates of the applicant’s unit had a bath once per week, and bedding and underwear would also be changed. the government therefore referred to domestic statutory provisions governing prisoners’ transportation. on 26 august 2008 the court invited the applicant to submit copies of documents pertinent to his complaints, including his appeal and appeal on points of law. according to the government, in 2004 and 2005, following the applicant’s requests, he had studied the case file in detail and had been served with copies of procedural documents in his case, save for a copy of his appeal on points of law, which was not available in the case file at the time. in particular, on an unspecified date in 2009 he had been placed in disciplinary detention for fifteen days.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in timişoara. on 20 february 2003 the applicant, a bank manager at that time, was placed in pre-trial detention by the bucharest anti-corruption department of the prosecutor’s office, on a charge of taking a bribe in order to favourably influence the acceptance of a loan requested by m.g. by a final judgment delivered on 13 april 2012 the high court of cassation and justice (“the high court”) convicted the applicant of taking a bribe. among the evidence which led to his conviction was the transcript of a phone conversation between the applicant and m.g. the conversation had been intercepted on the basis of a warrant issued by the prosecutor under the provisions of law no. 51/1991”) for the period between 13 august and 12 november 2002. the applicant complained before the domestic courts about the lawfulness of the interception of his phone conversation and the accuracy of the transcript. he alleged that the court had held that law no. 51/1991 did not afford the guarantees required under article 8 of the convention. however, the high court merely replied that the impugned interception had been lawful and within the scope of law no.
the first applicant (mr asainov) was born in 1968 and lives in moscow. the second applicant (ms sibiryak) was born in 1975 and lives in mashabei sadeh, israel. before his arrest, he had not committed any breach of public order or other offences and had not received any orders from the police. according to the government, the applicant, as a participant in the authorised demonstration, had broken through the police cordon and tried to pass to the red square. at 8.30 p.m. the first applicant was brought to the fili-davydkovo district police station in moscow. the administrative arrest record indicated that the applicant had been arrested at 8.30 p.m. at the police station and released at 11.05 p.m. on the same day. the applicant] did not react to the multiple lawful demands of the police to cease these actions and actively resisted while being taken to the police van, thereby demonstrating his refusal to obey the lawful orders of the police officers and preventing them from fulfilling their service duties, in breach of article 19.3 § 1 of the code of administrative offences.” on 29 may 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. on 7 june 2012 his wife, who had been an eye-witness to the events of 6 may 2012, submitted written statements to the court. on the way to the station at 8.55 p.m. her husband was arrested by the police officers, who gave no orders, and was taken to the police van. on 16 july 2012 the district court examined and partly granted the applicant’s request to exclude the written statements of the police officers as inadmissible evidence. two police officers grabbed her hands and pushed her towards the police van. on 13 november 2012 the zamoskvoretskiy district court of moscow examined the applicant’s appeal in her presence and upheld the first-instance judgment. however, at her request, the court examined a witness of defence who stated that the applicant had not participated in breaking through the police cordon and had not committed any unlawful acts. the witness’s statements were dismissed by the court as unreliable evidence on the grounds that he was the applicant’s friend.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vietnam. the mattresses placed in the cells to accommodate additional detainees were filthy and sleeping on the concrete floor with only one blanket was very uncomfortable. 29-34) were single occupancy cells, each measuring 5.94 sq. there was therefore no record as to the precise cells or type of cells in which the applicant had been held. it was not, however, possible to estimate the length and frequency of the periods during which the applicant had shared a cell with another detainee. the remaining sixty-five days were unaccounted for. as no response was received mr l. loucaides sent a follow-up letter on 9 january 2013. indeed, none of the police establishments visited offered the material conditions or the opportunities for activities that persons detained for prolonged periods are entitled to expect. ... by letter of 8 september 2008, the cypriot authorities informed the cpt that remand police custody rarely lasts longer than 16 days, and that, as regards immigration detention, pursuant to a recent decision of the minister of interior, he personally examines, on a case-by-case basis, the files of non-eu nationals detained for longer than six months. the cypriot authorities also informed the cpt that a new establishment for the detention of up to 300 aliens was planned for 2012. it had thus substantially exceeded its capacity. taking into account the cpt’s recommendations, none of the cells were of an adequate size. the cells had no windows but just glass blocks which did not allow natural ventilation and light. the centre had an internal courtyard with natural light and ventilation which female detainees could use from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the ombudsman’s view this was satisfactory as it secured, in line with cpt standards, the detainees’ right to least one hour’s daily exercise. in particular, in addition to overcrowding, the shortcomings that existed as to natural ventilation, minimum/basic hygiene conditions and the failure to separate pre-trial detainees from immigration detainees, rendered the centre completely unsuitable for detention, especially for a period exceeding six months.
the applicants were born in 1966 and 1975 respectively and are currently detained in sevan prison. on 5 november 2009 a resident of gavar, h.h., on the same date the gavar investigative department instituted criminal proceedings for attempted murder and illegal possession of firearms. a person close to the applicants’ family and employed by them in one of their businesses, stated in his interview that on the day of the events in question he had met the applicants and h.p. he had later been informed by his son that the people gathered at the scene of the incident had told him that the applicants had shot at h.h. had done from the back seat, where he had been sitting. as charged, and he received a custodial sentence. on 15 june 2010 the applicants gave themselves up to the police and the main proceedings were resumed. on 4 march 2011 the proceedings were resumed and the case was assigned to the special investigative service. the applicants’ rights were explained to them and they exercised their right to be represented by a lawyer. on 18 april and 3 may 2011 respectively the applicants were interviewed, but they refused to answer any questions. exercising his rights as an accused, had refused to take part in a confrontation with the applicants. was absent from his place of permanent residence, as he had apparently been working in another city. on 17 august 2011 the regional court again issued decisions requiring h.h., in doing so, the regional court referred, among other items of evidence, to the pre-trial statements of h.h.
the applicant was born in 1982 and is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant was a journalist and an active member of the popular front party, which is one of the opposition parties. at around noon on 29 august 2014, when the applicant was on his way to work, a certain m.h. approached him near a bus stop, asking him why he had not replied to his messages sent via facebook. answered that he had not replied to him because he had probably not seen his messages. according to the applicant, immediately after that answer, m.h. physically assaulted him by punching him in the face. were taken to the absheron district police office. by hitting the latter on the head with a glass water bottle and also punching and kicking him in the face. the relevant part of the decision reads as follows:“... having examined the preliminary material of the case file (witness statements and forensic expert reports), the court considers that there are sufficient grounds to believe that there is a likelihood that the accused haziyev seymur mashgul oglu will obstruct the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings and reoffend.” he claimed, in particular, that his pre-trial detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 27 october 2014 the prosecutor in charge of the case filed the bill of indictment with the absheron district court for trial. on 11 november 2014 the applicant lodged an application with the absheron district court, asking to be placed under house arrest instead of in pre-trial detention. the first-instance court’s decision was not amenable to appeal. it was further upheld on 15 april 2016 by the supreme court.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in katowice. the applicant is a former activist of an anti-communist opposition group, who was interned in 1982. he observed the trial against three high-ranking members of the communist-era military council of national salvation who had ordered the imposition of martial law in poland in december 1981. was convicted and sentenced to four years’ imprisonment. another defendant was acquitted and another had her case discontinued. at 1.30 p.m., after the judges had arrived in the courtroom, the applicant jumped behind the judge’s table and shouted: “this is a mockery of justice!” ( tutaj trwa kpina z wymiaru sprawiedliwości). in view of the audience’s refusal to leave the courtroom, the judge who was presiding over the trial decided to announce the judgment from a different room. on 12 january 2012 a written decision, in the form of an extract from the court minutes as described in the preceding paragraph, was issued to that effect. the applicant submitted that he had not been served with that decision or informed of it. on 22 january 2012 the applicant lodged an interlocutory appeal against the decision imposing the custodial penalty. he also submitted that if the presiding judge had told him to return to his seat, he would have complied. on 31 january 2012 the applicant’s appeal was transferred to the warsaw regional court for comment. on 1 february 2012 the appeal together with the regional court’s comments was received by the warsaw court of appeal. following that decision, the applicant was transferred for several hours to a remand centre with a semi-open regime.
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in blagoevgrad. he had been employed by the national security service, at the regional office of blagoevgrad, as an agent since 1998. on account of the nature of his duties, he had held a security clearance permitting him access to classified information constituting state secrets. according to the applicant’s job description, being in a possession of such a security clearance had been a prerequisite to him holding his post. on 20 november 2013, the director of the national security service issued a decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance allowing access to classified information. the decision did not contain any reasoning in respect of that revocation, apart from a reference to section 59, in relation with section 40 § 1 f) and h); section 41 c) and d), and section 42 a) and b) of the classified information protection act (see paragraphs 12 and 13 below). the applicant lodged an appeal against the revocation with the state commission for information security. the latter, by a decision of 9 january 2014, upheld the revocation. that decision was final and not amenable to judicial review. the reason given for the termination of his employment was the revocation of his security clearance, possession of which was an indispensable precondition for him to be able to perform his duties. the applicant challenged his dismissal at two levels of jurisdiction. he contested the lawfulness of the dismissal procedure, arguing that he was not able to challenge, in the course of the procedure before the state commission for information security, the facts on which the revocation of the security clearance permit was based. the director of the national security service abused his powers in dismissing the applicant, who was not allowed an opportunity to defend himself. by its judgment of 19 march 2015, the blagoevgrad administrative court rejected the applicant’s claims, reasoning that the decision of the director of the national security service to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was a final and valid administrative act, and it rendered the applicant’s dismissal inevitable because he was no longer able to perform his duties. on 11 july 2016, the supreme court of cassation upheld that judgment, confirming that the decision to revoke the applicant’s security clearance was not amenable to judicial review.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. the applicants sued different state and municipal unitary companies (the debtor companies) in several unrelated sets of court proceedings. on the dates set out in the appended table domestic courts by separate judgments made pecuniary awards in favour of the applicants to be paid by the debtor companies. 34145/11 the courts also ordered the debtor company to take certain action in favour of the applicant, as specified in the appended table. the companies were incorporated as state or municipal unitary enterprises. they provided services specified in the appended table. on various dates insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of some of the debtor companies. the companies were subsequently liquidated. the dates on which the insolvency proceedings started and ended are tabulated below.
the first applicant, mr eugeniusz bukowski, the second applicant, ms grażyna zmysłowska, and the third applicant, ms jolanta barszcz, were born in 1931, in 1960 and 1959 respectively and live in warsaw. the property in warsaw which gives rise to the present application (two adjacent plots of land with a detached house situated on it) was originally co-owned by the applicants’ predecessors, the d. family and the k. family. on 12 september 1996 the first applicant and on 25 february 1998 the second applicant joined the proceedings. on 17 january 2005 the applicants applied to have this decision amended and the ownership of the land restored. on 6 june 2005 the warsaw self-government board of appeal quashed the impugned decision and remitted the case for re-examination. the mayor decided to return the ownership of the building to the applicants and decided on the annual amount of fees to be paid for the perpetual use of the land. on 15 october 2008 the applicants lodged with the warsaw regional administrative court a complaint about the inactivity on the part of the mayor of warsaw. on 18 june 2009 the mayor of warsaw issued a new decision, granting the applicants a right of perpetual use of the land and the ownership of the house. it further fixed the amount of annual fees to be paid for the perpetual use of land. on 5 november 2009 the warsaw self-government board of appeal upheld the impugned decision. on 24 may 2013 the applicants signed a notarial deed by virtue of which they acquired the ownership of the building and a right of perpetual use of the land. subsequently, on various dates, the applicants applied to have the case re-examined. following several remittals on 12 february 2013 the warsaw regional administrative court refused the applicants’ request. on 14 march 2013 the applicants lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme administrative court. the applicants appealed against this decision on 13 september 2013.
the applicants are a married couple of roma origin. they were born in 1986 and live in hurbanovo. during a second interview on 17 june 2012, mr j. stated, inter alia, that he was not able to explain the reasons for his actions, that he did not remember most of the events, and that he had wanted to commit suicide shortly after the shooting. stated that mr j. was harsher on roma than on other people. the witnesses, including colleagues of mr j., stated that he had not expressed any anti-roma opinions or comments. m. had been caught stealing in a scrap yard with two other roma boys. on 16 july 2012 the investigator requested expert examinations of mr j. by two experts in psychiatry and one expert in clinical psychology. the special prosecutor referred to, inter alia, the testimony of mr j., of the applicants, and of other witnesses, as well as the expert reports and the statements given by the experts when they had been interviewed, including the psychologist’s statements concerning the earlier violent confrontation between mr j. and roma children, and mr j’s growing feelings of helplessness, his fear of the roma, and his belief that in acting as he had he had believed that he was solving an issue with the roma. the ethnicities of the victims or racial motives were not mentioned and addressed. the applicants, together with six other members of the family, joined the criminal proceedings as civil parties. their lawyer claimed compensation for damage on their behalf. owing to the fact that mr j., his lawyer, and the prosecutor had all waived their right to appeal, the judgment contained only a brief description of the criminal act in question and the sentencing part, pursuant to article 172 § 2 of the code of criminal procedure. on 18 september 2013 the applicants’ appeal was dismissed by the supreme court (najvyšší súd). such leave was refused by the minister of justice on 17 september 2013 and 3 april 2014, respectively. furthermore, the second applicant received eur 4,090 in respect of his father’s death.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in istanbul. on 28 august 2007 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of child molestation and on the same day he was brought before a judge at the gaziosmanpaşa juvenile court, who placed him in detention on remand. on 3 september 2007 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on his detention. on 23 october 2007 and 19 november 2007 the gaziosmanpaşa magistrates’ court prolonged the applicant’s detention ex officio. on 16 december 2007 the bakırköy public prosecutor filed an indictment with the bakırköy juvenile assize court, charging the applicant with child molestation. on 31 december 2007 the bakırköy juvenile assize court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s pre-trial detention on the basis of the case file, and decided that it had no jurisdiction ratione loci and that the case should be heard by the beyoğlu juvenile assize court and referred the case file to the latter. on 30 january 2008 the applicant filed an objection against the decision on the continuation of his pre-trial detention. on 14 february 2008 the bakırköy juvenile assize court dismissed his objection on the basis of the case file, without holding a hearing. on 23 june 2008 the court of cassation gave its decision authorising bakırköy juvenile assize court over the case. on 13 august 2008 the trial court held a preparatory hearing and ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on the basis of the case file. on 30 october 2008 the court held its first hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. during the hearings held on 21 january 2009, 14 april 2009 and 21 july 2009, at which the applicant was present, the trial court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention on remand. on 3 november 2009, at the end of the fifth hearing before the court, the applicant was released pending trial. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the applicant were still pending.
the applicants were born in 1985, 1988 and 1985, respectively. had seen four or five roma men leaving the car. and stolen from him a combine-harvester radiator, a portable water hose, a tamburitza and eur 60. on 3 april 2008 the public prosecutor requested that an investigation be opened into the robbery of l.m. was taken to the investigating judge again. against r.k and against the second and third applicants. on 7 april 2008 the third applicant was arrested. the next day he was taken to the investigating judge. had lied in his statement of 4 april 2008. in the presence of his counsel, he denied the charges. he added that the tamburitza, the combine-harvester radiator and the portable water hose, which had been found by the police on 28 march 2008 at about 1 a.m., had belonged to him. ’s home, explained his report of 8 july 2008 according to which the material matched the dna profiles of l.m. the trial court dismissed the application. on 9 march 2010 the novi sad court of appeal (apelacioni sud) upheld the judgment of 30 march 2009. of 4 april 2008 ought not to have been admitted as they had not been able to test that evidence by means of a cross-examination.
the applicants were born in 1963, 1960 and 1959 respectively. the first applicant lives in balzan, the second applicant in naxxar and the third applicant in sliema. the applicants are owners of apartment no. this apartment was inherited by the applicants from their father, who died in september 2006. initially, the apartment belonged to the applicants’ late father and his brothers. according to the applicants, in 1992, their late father had entered into negotiations with couple s., in order to reach a new lease agreement and increase the rent. on 17 october 1994, a deed of partition was signed by the siblings and the apartment in question was assigned in its entirety to the late father of the applicants. nevertheless, couple s. continued to occupy the apartment by title of lease since the law (article 12(2)(b)(i) of the housing (decontrol) ordinance as amended by act xxii of 1979 – see relevant domestic law below) provided for the conversion of a temporary emphyteusis into a lease, irrespective of the owners’ consent. neither the applicants, nor their late father ever accepted any rent paid by couple s. on the following grounds: the rent due as calculated according to the law was far less than the rental market value of the apartment; the law in question (article 12 of the housing (decontrol) ordinance) was in breach of their rights as stipulated in article 1 of protocol no. however, due to the change in law (brought about by act xxii of 1979), couple s. had remained therein rendering it impossible for the applicants to regain possession of their apartment. on 29 january 2014, the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, found against the applicants, dismissed their claims and ordered them to pay the expenses of the proceedings. on 31 january 2014, the applicants appealed the above decision. the constitutional court ordered the applicants to pay for the costs of the appeal proceedings. in consequence they were aware that the rent would remain relatively low, like the ground rent had been. furthermore, the constitutional court argued that the owners could have requested a higher ground rent.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in palanga. the director of company m. was questioned as a witness and stated that in may 2012 he had entered into a contract for accounting services with company a., of which the applicant was the director. on 9 april 2014 the applicant was called as a witness. he refused to give testimony in relation to his wife’s actions and the payment of ltl 120,000 received by company a. from company m. 10. on 26 may 2014 a prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office gave the applicant a fine of ltl 650 (approximately eur 188) for refusing to testify, as provided for in article 163 of the ccp (see paragraphs 31 and 32 below). the applicant lodged a complaint with a senior prosecutor. he relied on article 31 of the constitution, which prohibits compelling a person to testify against his or her family members (see paragraph 18 below). on 9 june 2014 a senior prosecutor from the klaipėda regional prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s complaint on the grounds that, in accordance with the ccp, only the family members of a suspect or an accused were exempt from liability for refusing to testify, but the ccp did not extend such a privilege to the family members of a “special witness” (see paragraph 19 below). the applicant lodged a complaint with the klaipėda district court, raising essentially the same arguments as those which he had raised before (see paragraph 11 above). on 9 july 2014 the klaipėda district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint and upheld the reasoning in the prosecutor’s decision (see paragraph 12 above). it stated that the applicant’s right not to testify against his wife would have been breached only if his wife had had the status of a suspect and not that of a witness. that decision was final and not open to any further appeal. he stated that he was the director of company a., which provided accounting services to other companies. his wife worked as the financial director of company a., and from may to november 2012 she had provided accounting services to company m. the applicant stated that he had not known how or why ltl 120,000 had been transferred to the bank account of company a. he knew only that that entire amount had been returned to company m. within a week, in a transfer carried out by his wife. it appears that that decision was not appealed against and became final.
the first applicant, mr omer akçay (also spelt emer and emir akchay), who was born in 1960, is a turkish national. the first applicant’s surname is spelt as it would be in turkish. the first applicant has been residing in turkey since april 2016. prior to that, from 1999 to 2016, he resided with his family in syktyvkar, in the komi republic, russia. the second and third applicants still reside there. at some point prior to december 1999 the first applicant moved from turkey to russia and started living with the second applicant in syktyvkar. in january 2000 the third applicant was born and the first applicant was registered on his birth certificate as his father. he was given an exit visa valid until 20 april 2016. the second and third applicants remained in syktyvkar to take care of the farm and continue attending school. he also had a farm which required constant attention. the court did not make any references to the nature of the threat posed by the first applicant to national security, other than stating that his record of administrative offences for the last three years had provided the necessary basis for the komi fsb’s request to annul his residence permit. on 15 and 28 april 2016 the komi fsb lodged its objections to the first applicant’s appeal with the komi supreme court, demanding that the court find against him. issues relating to national security are specific, and their evaluation is carried out by designated bodies on the basis of information obtained from sources, including those outside of judicial control. therefore, the federal security service is not supposed to provide the court with documents substantiating the grounds for its decisions concerning the undesirability of the residence of a foreign citizen in the russian federation, as such documents contain state secrets, and the court does not have authority to request those documents ...” 26. on 19 july 2016 the town court rejected the first applicant’s appeal, referring to his administrative infractions and stating that “the impugned decision had been taken in accordance with the law and within the authority of the komi fms”.
the applicants, who were born in 1984, 1987 and 1988 respectively, live in i̇stanbul. 3713), which was in force at the material time. on 26 august 2007 the applicants were questioned by police officers from the anti-terror branch of the i̇stanbul security directorate, in the presence of their lawyer. they were mainly questioned about certain records of telephone conversations and the incident of the arson of vehicles during an illegal demonstration. on 31 august 2008 the applicants’ lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 26 august 2007 ordering the applicants’ detention, and requested their release. at the end of the third hearing, held on 20 november 2008, the court prolonged the applicants’ detentions. the applicants were present at this hearing. subsequently, they filed an objection against this decision. on 28 november 2008 the 11th chamber of the i̇stanbul assize court dismissed the objection, without holding an oral hearing and based on the written opinions of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicants or their representative. on 24 november 2009, 30 march 2010 and 24 may 2012, respectively, the applicants were released from detention on remand. on 1 october 2013 the i̇stanbul assize court acquitted the second applicant of the charges against him. the court convicted the first and the third applicants and sentenced them to imprisonment. on 1 july 2016 the court of cassation quashed the judgment of the first instance court in so far as it concerned the convictions of the first and third applicants. accordingly, the case file was remitted to the first instance court. according to the latest information in the case file, the criminal proceedings against the first and third applicants are still pending before the i̇stanbul assize court.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in baia mare. red-handed being given money by a relative of v.t.v., on the same day, the applicant issued a press release, which received considerable public attention. moreover, the suspect told the detainee that part of the money was to go to the magistrates, judges and prosecutors responsible for the conditional release of detainees. some of them contained images of the flagrante delicto operation, taken by journalists who had been present at the operation organised by the prosecutors and police. she contended that at the time of the incident she had been the judge delegated to baia mare prison and because of the applicant’s press release and interview with axa tv it was suggested by the media that she might be the alleged recipient of the money. 544/2001 concerning the restriction of citizens’ access to information in relation to criminal proceedings at the investigation stage. the first had had no objections concerning the press release; the other had advised him that he should limit its content to aspects concerning the investigation carried out by his office. the applicant asked the scm to question the two journalists. the public had already been exposed to information about the incident as the two journalists who had been present at the flagrante delicto operation had published articles about the incident. the disciplinary commission noted that the applicant had issued a press release and given an interview to axa tv revealing information about the investigation into the offence of influence peddling on 22 october 2008. as one of the alleged recipients of the money. the disciplinary commission concluded that the applicant had therefore breached the provisions of article 12 § 1 let e) of law no. axa tv’s reference to the judge whose involvement with the prison had just ended was made in an additional comment that was not included in the press release;(iii)  the reference to the delegated judge made possible the identification of the magistrate, but since this statement was attributable exclusively to the television channel, the latter should bear responsibility for all subsequent comments and speculations;(iv)  only the additional information concerning the end of the delegated judge’s mandate allowed the identification of judge g.e. by a decision of 8 december 2009 the high court dismissed the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in ljubljana. on 8 october 1992 the applicant became a member of l.e., the first one, however, remained registered as a member of l.e. died, but nevertheless remained registered as a member. since the members failed to appoint a new director, as required (see paragraph 37 below), the applicant’s dismissal was not entered in the court register and he remained registered as managing director of l.e. on 19 june 1997, on the applicant’s initiative, the general meeting of l.e. the applicant alleged that some members of l.e. did not appeal; the judgment became final on 12 january 2001. on the same day, the decision to initiate strike-off proceedings was entered in the court register. on 12 february 2001 the decision was returned to the registry court with the information that the addressee had failed to collect it. had nine registered members (including the applicant). in its judgment of 12 march 2005, the ljubljana local court found that the onus of proving his status as passive member was on the applicant and that he had failed to prove that he had not been an active member of l.e. lastly, the court took note of the fact that the applicant had indeed made a winding-up petition on behalf of l.e., had at the time failed to make the required advance payment and the petition had therefore been rejected (see paragraphs 15 and 18 above). have paid to the slovenian railways in this connection.
the first applicant was born in 1988, the second applicant was born in 1994 and the remaining applicants were born in 2010-2016. he quit that job in october 2015, but before that he and his mother were asked if he was planning to join illegal armed groups in syria. they submitted to the court that they had told the border guards in russian that they were seeking asylum, but asylum proceedings had not been initiated. it was also indicated that the decisions could be appealed against before a regional administrative court within fourteen days. the applicants were asked to sign the decisions. in the space for a signature on each of the seven decisions, the first and second applicants wrote “azul’” in cyrillic (азуль) – they submitted to the court that that word was often used by chechen asylum seekers to mean “asylum”. at 12.45 p.m. the alien was returned to belarus. they did not appeal against the decisions refusing them entry into lithuania. on 11 may 2017, around noon, the applicants arrived at the kena checkpoint on the border between lithuania and belarus. however, asylum proceedings were not initiated. the border officer who was on duty at the kena checkpoint that day submitted the following official report to a senior officer:“i hereby inform you that on 11 may 2017 ... when i was examining the train [from moscow to kaliningrad], at around 12:00 p.m., the following russian nationals [the applicants] submitted their documents for inspection. the court has not been informed if a similar report was drawn up with regard to the first applicant and the other two children. the applicants’ stay in belarus was legal until 10 july 2017. they were admitted to a refugee reception centre in poland to await the decision on their asylum applications. he provided the court with photographs of bruises on his body which he claimed to have sustained in detention.
the applicant was born in 1953 and lives in vilnius. it was indicated in the decision that her rights to the remaining 0.2884 hectares would be restored later. on 30 august 2016 the nls held a meeting to consider the location where the applicant had chosen two plots of land. it appears that this request was the change of her initial wish as regards the form of restitution (see paragraph 8 above). on 20 march 2003 the applicant asked the authorities to return to her in kind the remaining part of her father’s land in pylimėliai, vilnius. on 27 june 2005 the vilnius county administration (“the vca”) restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0973 hectares of her father’s land by transferring to her a plot of land in vilnius for the construction of an individual house. on 19 july 2016 the nls restored the applicant’s property rights to 0.0042 hectares of land by returning to her in natura four plots of land measuring 0.0042 hectares in total. on 4 november 2004 the vilnius regional administrative court examined a claim lodged by the applicant that the vca had been protracting the adoption of a decision on the restoration of her property rights in vilnius. she asked the court to oblige the vca to return to her 0.7730 hectares of land. it was explained to the applicant that several measures had yet to be carried out in order to proceed. the court ordered the vca to issue a decision restoring the applicant’s property rights to 0.6223 hectares of land within three months of the date on which the aforementioned court decision became final. on 8 december 2011 the vilnius regional administrative court carried out a fresh examination of the applicant’s complaint (see paragraph 26 above). on 16 april 2012 the supreme administrative court dismissed the appeals. however, she had received a plot of land measuring 0.0973 hectares. the applicant appealed against the first-instance decision and on 7 april 2015 the supreme administrative court decided to reopen the case for examination on the merits in order to receive some additional documents.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in bucharest. according to a police report drawn up on 21 june 2005, the police division responsible for fighting organised crime and drug trafficking (“the police”) received information from an undisclosed source that an individual called “ursu-degweed” was a member of a network of dealers that was trafficking drugs in constanţa. the police initiated an investigation of their own motion. d. called the applicant and asked him to provide her with some drugs. she informed him that a common friend, l., could help him to find a dealer, set the price for the drugs and sent the money by mail (postal order) on 23 june 2005. the applicant also stated that d. had called and had asked him to buy twenty ecstasy tablets for her. the applicant maintained his allegations in a statement given in the presence of two lawyers of his choice on 19 july 2005. several hearings were held before the constanţa county court. the court dismissed his allegations that he had been entrapped. it confined itself in noting that the activity of the informer, d., had been lawful, without referring to the question whether she had been authorised to act as an undercover agent. in convicting the applicant, it relied on his own statements, corroborated by the statements made by the friends who had accompanied him on his trip to constanţa on 25 june 2005, as well as on reports produced by the undercover agent and the police following the police operation organised on 25 june 2005 when the applicant had been caught in the act of committing a crime. his lawyers reiterated that he had been entrapped by the police and that d. should be heard by the court. on 24 october 2008 the court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the county court’s findings. it did not refer at all to the applicant’s argument that d. had not been heard. it upheld the reasoning of the two lower courts.
the applicants were born in 1951 and 1948 respectively and live in makiyivka. b.’s car collided with another car being driven by br., who sustained serious bodily injuries and was taken to hospital. ’s passenger at the time of the accident. between 5 february and 8 april 2002 the police conducted technical vehicular examinations and questioned br., the applicants, and several other witnesses. the investigating authorities found that the surviving driver, br., had previously been employed in a police security company, but that he had resigned before the accident happened. ’s car had not been seized; the circumstances of the accident had not been noted carefully; and the witnesses had not been identified. on 2 july, 4 september and 29 october 2004 the criminal case was terminated because the investigators considered that it had been the applicants’ son who had contravened traffic rules and caused the accident resulting in his own death. the applicants objected to the grounds on which the case had been terminated, because their son had not been exonerated. on 29 september 2009 the investigator asked the gornyanskyy district court of makiyivka (“the district court”) to close the criminal case concerning the traffic accident in which the applicants’ son had died. on 23 june 2010 the district court rejected the investigator’s request and sent the case back to the prosecutor’s office, finding that there had been procedural errors in referring the case to the court. in particular, the investigator was instructed to prepare a bill of indictment. on 28 january 2011 the investigator referred the case to the district court for a further decision on discontinuing the proceedings.
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants are siblings who were born in 1949, 1944, 1947, 1952, 1955 and 1954 respectively and live in vilnius. in 1991 the fifth applicant applied for restoration of his property rights to his late father’s land, which had been nationalised by the soviet regime. were also possible candidates to have their property rights to that land restored. however, final sale agreements were not concluded and the seventh applicant did not become the owner of the plots. on 29 august 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants’ property rights to the nine hectares given to them annulled. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). according to the information provided by the prosecutor, forests of national importance covered the entire plot of 3.20 hectares, as well as 1.37 hectares of the other plot (see paragraph 7 above). however, on 1 september 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed the claim. 89-91) and therefore the vca’s decision had to be annulled. the applicants and the vca lodged appeals against that decision. 92) and to inform the authorities of their choice. on 19 august 2012 the second applicant died (see paragraph 4 above). on 19 february 2015 the nls approved a list of candidates to receive plots of land in several areas around vilnius, including naujakiemis. the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth applicants were included in that list as candidates to receive two plots measuring a total of 4.4115 hectares. the decisions stated that the rights to the remaining 4.5885 hectares would be restored at a later date.
the applicant was born in 1978 and is serving a prison sentence in khabarovsk. on 30 july 2004 the samara regional court sentenced the applicant to life imprisonment. on 20 july 2007 the applicant was placed in correctional colony no. period of detentioncell measurements (sq. m)number of inmates7from 20 july to 2 august 2007182no information available. the relevant documents have been destroyed. 10from 29 october to 26 november 20141826from 26 november 2014 to 2 april 2015182010from 2 april 13 december 2015416from 13 to 23 december 2015182010from 23 december 2015 to 9 august 20164110from 9 august to 7 september 2016182010from 7 september to 26 december 2016417from 26 to 27 december 201618210from 27 december 2016 to 21 july 20171823from 21 july to 3 march 20171826from 3 march 2017 to date182 7. since 2007 the applicant has been assigned to different cells, his conditions of detention remaining unchanged. there is no water supply or sewage system on the colony premises. the inmates are given buckets, to compensate for the lack of a toilet, which they have to empty every morning in a cesspool located some two metres away from the recreation area. they are allowed to take a shower once a week. the food is not fresh, lacks variety and is of poor quality. the milk is often sour, and the fruit juices are diluted with water. the temperature in the cell does not exceed +120c during the winter. on 13 december 2013 the prosecutor replied that the compulsory shaving of the head and beard to which the applicant had been subjected had been unlawful, and that the prosecutor’s office had informed the administration of the correctional colony where the applicant was serving his prison sentence.
the first applicant was born in 1937, the second applicant was born in 1930, the third applicant was born in 1934, the fourth applicant was born in 1945, the fifth applicant was born in 1930, the sixth applicant was born in 1954, the seventh applicant was born in 1926 and the eighth applicant was born in 1929. the fourth and fifth applicants did so in 2000. gudeliai and kriaučiūnai were former villages which had become part of the vilnius city municipality in 1996. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). the final decisions were taken by the supreme administrative court between january and march 2010. it does not appear that they received any answers from those institutions. on 25 may 2012 the nls adopted a decision to restore the eighth applicant’s property rights by giving her 0.4419 hectares of agricultural land. the decision stated that her rights to the remaining 0.7581 hectares would be restored later. in august 2012 all the applicants sent letters to the nls in which they asked, inter alia, to be allocated plots of land for the construction of individual homes in vilnius in the order of priority, or to receive compensation in respect of the pecuniary damage which they had sustained as a result of the annulment of their property rights. the fifth applicant took part in that meeting but did not choose any plots. however, the applicants did not agree to this proposal, and it was not carried out. in february 2017 the nls sent a letter to the seventh applicant, asking her to indicate the area in which she wished to receive a plot. the seventh applicant’s heir (see paragraph 3 above) replied that same month, indicating her choice. on 9 january 2018 the nls held a meeting for candidates to receive plots of land in certain areas around vilnius, including kriaučiūnai. at the date of the latest information provided to the court (12 october 2018), the applicants’ property rights had still not been restored with respect to the following plots:- the first, second and third applicants – 3.66 hectares;- the fourth and fifth applicants – 0.52 hectares;- the sixth and seventh applicants – 1.22 hectares;- the eighth applicant – 0.5181 hectares.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in kharkiv. he was arrested at the scene of the crime. according to a report by a prison guard dated 10 september 2010, the applicant refused to move from the single-occupancy cell to a dormitory, claiming that he feared violence from other inmates. following the communication of the application to the respondent government, the applicant submitted that the average living space per inmate in the dormitory cells of the colony was 2.8 sq. m. he referred in this respect to the report (dated 23 november 2011) of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (hereinafter, “the cpt”) on its visit to ukraine from 9 until 21 september 2009 (cpt/inf (2011) 29), which mentioned overcrowding in respect of most of the colony’s dormitories. the applicant alleges that he was not actually given those medications. on 4 october 2011 the applicant was examined at a civilian hospital in kharkiv. he underwent an ultrasound examination and a biochemical blood test, which included aspartate aminotransferase (ast) and alanine aminotransferase (alt) markers for liver function. a number of medications and a special diet were prescribed. on 17 october 2011 the applicant was examined by a general practitioner, who diagnosed chronic pancreatitis in the acute stage and prescribed treatment. the applicant had been suffering from osteochondrosis of the lumbar spine since 1998. he was hospitalised and treated for that condition from 28 february until 5 march 2008, prior to his arrest. from 24 april until 4 may 2012 the applicant was treated in the medical unit of the colony in which he was detained at the time for his osteochondrosis and disk protrusion. on 31 may 2012 a surgeon examined the applicant and recommended that he undergo examination and treatment in a specialist neurology ward. the applicant alleges that the recommendation was not implemented.
before his arrest he lived in berezna, a village in chernigiv region. during the search the police found another gun, a gas pistol modified so as to be able to fire live ammunition, bullets and explosive material. and o. between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. on 27 february 2007. y. left the café at about 1 a.m. on 28 february 2007 and was heading home when that man shot him with a small revolver with a white stripe. on 13 march 2007 the police carried out a face-to-face confrontation between y. and the applicant. on 5 may 2007 y. committed suicide for unknown reasons. at the same hearing the court questioned ty. ( after the fight o. had been covered with blood and had repeated, “i’ll do it to him”. ’s statements and did not ask him any questions. she stated that at around midnight on 27 february 2007 she saw the applicant standing near the café and observing the victim. on 16 november 2007 the trial court convicted the applicant of grievous bodily harm and sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment. the applicant’s lawyer also pointed out an inconsistency between the victim’s original statement and his statement in the course of the confrontation with the applicant in respect of whether the victim had known the applicant before the attack (see paragraphs 11 and 13 above). on 6 march 2009 the trial court replied that it was not legally empowered to give copies of documents after the termination of criminal proceedings. the chernigiv regional court of appeal suggested that the applicant’s sister address the trial court with her request for the documents. on 22 february 2012 the applicant was taken to the trial court and allowed to study the case file.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in dubno. when the applicant refused, the investigator asked the police officers to ensure her compulsory appearance for questioning. the police officers allegedly beat the applicant, twisted her arms behind her back and forced her out of the house barefoot. they placed her in a police car and took her to the office of the investigator. at about 1 p.m. on 29 may 2000 the applicant was released. on the next day, 30 may 2000, the applicant was examined by a doctor, who noted that there were injuries on her shoulders. on 9 april 2001 the dubno inter-district prosecutor’s office discontinued the investigation into the applicant’s criminal case, having regard to the insignificance of her offence. on 2 august 2001 the dubno town court quashed the decision of 9 april 2001 as unfounded and ordered that there be further investigation. on 14 august 2001 the investigation was completed and the case file was referred to the dubno town court for trial. on 30 january 2007 the dubno town court convicted the applicant of failure to comply with a court decision, and decided that it was appropriate to punish her with a fine. on 17 april 2007 the rivne regional court of appeal dismissed an appeal by the applicant and upheld the judgment of 30 january 2007. she was examined by a medical expert, who found that she had sustained five bruises to her shoulders and had injured her left shoulder ligaments. the applicant was not informed of the decision taken within the additional inquiry. on 9 july 2007 the dubno town court found that on 29 may 2000 the applicant had been ill-treated and unlawfully taken from her home to the investigator’s office. on 13 july 2009 the higher administrative court returned the applicant’s appeal without examining it on the merits, after finding that she had failed to comply with the procedural requirements for submitting appeals.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in oradea. on 29 november 2000 the prosecutor’s office attached to the bihor county court (“the prosecutor’s office”) discontinued the criminal proceedings which it had opened against the applicant on 24 november 2000 for bribe taking. also, at a hearing on 10 february 2003, the court dismissed the applicant’s challenge against the order of 16 august 2002 on the grounds that the measure was temporary and had been enforced correctly. consequently, the court maintained the measure imposed on the applicant’s assets. it also convicted the applicant of bribe taking and sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment, suspended. the applicant appealed against the judgment to the court of appeal. between 20 june and 11 july 2006 the court of appeal adjourned the proceedings twice to allow the parties to prepare their cases. on 8 april 2010 the county court examined the applicant’s case on the merits, acquitted him of abuse of office and dismissed avab’s civil claim. consequently, it lifted the seizure measure from his assets. between 21 september and 16 november 2010 the court of appeal adjourned the proceedings twice to allow the parties to prepare their cases, to summon them, and for the court to deliberate. on 23 november 2010 the court dismissed the appeals of the parties and upheld the judgment of the first-instance court. by a final judgment of 4 may 2011 the court of cassation allowed the applicant’s appeal on points of fact and law in part. it held that he was guilty of bribe taking, but his criminal liability for that offence had become time-barred. the court upheld the remaining parts of the judgments delivered by the lower courts. on 4 march 2012, once the applicant had submitted certified copies of all the courts’ judgments, the bihor land and immovable property register removed the annotation concerning the seizure measure imposed on his immovable property from the above-mentioned register, which had prevented him from freely disposing of it.
the applicant was born in 1968 and has been serving a prison sentence in lukiškės remand prison since 16 january 2002. on 16 may 2014 the applicant lodged a civil claim against the state, alleging that he was being detained in overcrowded and unsanitary cells. he also complained that toilets were not properly partitioned from the rest of the cells and thus the prison staff could see him use the toilet. he submitted that his health had deteriorated as a result of the inappropriate conditions of his detention and claimed 450,000 lithuanian litai (ltl, approximately 130,300 euros (eur)) in respect of non-pecuniary damage. on 19 january 2015 the vilnius regional administrative court allowed the applicant’s claim in part. on the basis of documents provided by the prison administration, the court found that from 16 may 2011 to 15 may 2014 the applicant had spent 1,082 days in lukiškės remand prison. during that period, for thirteen days and one afternoon he had had 3.24 sq. m of personal space and on one afternoon he had had 2.65 sq. m of personal space, in breach of the domestic standard of 3.6 sq. the court also quoted the report of the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (“the cpt”) on its visit to lithuania in 2012. the court noted that the prison administration had not provided any evidence that the situation in the prison had changed. furthermore, the court ruled that toilets had not been partitioned from the rest of the cells in the manner required by relevant domestic regulations. it stated that, in accordance with accepted social norms, inability to use the toilet in private was degrading and humiliating to the individual. the court considered that the applicant had not proved that his health had deteriorated as a result of the conditions of his detention. it awarded the applicant eur 80 in respect of non-pecuniary damage, taking into account the “scope, intensity and duration” of the violation of his rights and the economic conditions in the country.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in toretsk. by a judgment of 17 january 2008, the above court allowed the claim in part and awarded the applicant certain amounts in damages. the applicant and the fund both sought to appeal against that judgment. in particular, on 25 january 2008 the applicant lodged through the dzerzhynsk court a statement of intent to lodge an appeal (“the statement of intent”; заява про апеляційне оскарження). a copy of the appeal bears the dzerzhynsk court’s stamp, with 13 february 2008 showing as the date of receipt. the applicant stated that no separate procedural decisions had been made about his appeal because it had been mislaid by the court. in a ruling of 18 march 2008 the donetsk regional court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) examined the appeal lodged by the fund, rejected it as unsubstantiated and upheld the judgment of 17 january 2008. the ruling did not mention the applicant’s appeal, and only stated that at the hearing, which was held on the same day, the applicant and his representative had contested the fund’s appeal and had asked the court to reject it. the applicant’s representative also asked the court of appeal to reject the fund’s appeal. the applicant appealed in cassation to the supreme court of ukraine. he thus asked the supreme court to quash the ruling of 18 march 2008 and to remit the case for fresh examination. on 27 june 2008 the supreme court refused to grant leave for the applicant’s appeal in cassation. it stated that the court of appeal had examined the appeal lodged by the fund, but that the applicant had not personally appealed against the judgment of 17 january 2008 and for this reason the case could not be reviewed in cassation. it did not address the applicant’s argument that he had indeed lodged an appeal, but that it had been mislaid. the decision of the supreme court indicated that the applicant’s appeal in cassation had been lodged in “april 2007”.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in poltava. the document analysed the amount of preventive social work performed by the applicant in connection with minors in 2002 and concluded that the applicant, as the head of the juvenile service department of the administration, had no knowledge of the relevant law and displayed an irresponsible attitude towards her professional duties. the document contained a demand that the applicant be disciplined. on 21 april 2003 the administration examined the prosecutor’s statement and decided to give the applicant a warning against the use of excessive formalism in her work. on 10 april 2004 the applicant brought civil defamation proceedings against the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office, prosecutor mr b., the poltava region prosecutor’s office and the state treasury of ukraine, alleging that the prosecutor’s statement contained untrue information relating to her professional activity and that this negative evaluation of her attitude to work had damaged her honour, dignity and professional reputation. she asked the court to order the grebinkivskyy district prosecutor’s office to retract the prosecutor’s statement and to pay her compensation for non-pecuniary damage. it considered the case on its merits and allowed the applicant’s claim in part. on 17 july 2006 the poltava regional court of appeal did not challenge the approach of the first-instance court in considering the case under civil law defamation provisions. however, it disagreed with the application of the civil code of 2003 and applied the old civil code of 1963. it partly allowed the claim and increased the level of compensation awarded to the applicant for non-pecuniary damage. on 20 september 2006 the state treasury of ukraine appealed against the decision to the supreme court. on 6 february 2008 the supreme court of ukraine quashed the above decision of 17 july 2006 and closed the proceedings, finding that the case should not have been examined in civil proceedings. the court indicated that the prosecutor’s statement should have been contested either before a superior prosecutor (in accordance with section 22 of the prosecutor’s act) or before “a court”. the supreme court also ruled that, according to paragraph 4 of resolution no. 7 of the plenum of the supreme court of ukraine dated 28 september 1990, entitled “on the application of legislation by the courts regulating defence of honour, dignity and reputation of citizens and organisations” (“the resolution”), it was not possible to file a civil defamation claim in respect of statements contained in courts’ decisions or decisions of various investigative bodies.
the applicant was born in 1942 and lives in sochi. the applicant obtained three judgments in her favour against various domestic authorities specified in the appendix. according to the government, to enforce the judgment of 23 june 2005 the authorities held a public auction to determine a company to perform the renovation of the applicant’s flat in yakutsk. the applicant unsuccessfully challenged the decision to transfer the case; the final decision was issued on 16 june 2005 by the yakutsk town court. the applicant did not appeal against the decision. on 22 december 2004 the supreme court of the sakha (yakutiya) republic upheld the judgment on appeal. the debtor company was incorporated as a municipal unitary enterprise set up by a decision of the local administration. the company had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. the parties did not provide information on its core activities. it also provided programming, data processing and it consultancy services. referring to a “notification” dated 19 april 2005 by the municipal unitary enterprise “payment processing centre”[1], the government submitted that on an unspecified date the judgment had been enforced in part, in so far as the obligations to count the amount toward the applicant’s debt and to recalculate the charges on account of the lack of hot water were concerned. they did not submit a copy of the notification. it appears that on 6 september 2007 the writs were returned to the bailiffs by an unspecified person or authority without execution. the parties did not provide copies of the relevant documents. according to the government, on 23 august 2008 the oao was liquidated.
the applicants were born in 1960 and 1959 respectively and live in vilnius. in 1994 the administrative authorities acknowledged that p.s. ’s property rights to 2.50 of the 8.17 hectares given to him annulled. be annulled in respect of that part of the land. the applicants disputed the prosecutor’s claim. however, on 10 december 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed it. ’s property rights to the 0.15 hectares, as well as the sale agreement between p.s. the applicants appealed against the first-instance court’s decision, but on 12 july 2011 the court of appeal upheld it in its entirety. they were also informed that there remained about 0.10 hectares of vacant land in kryžiokai, so if they wished to receive a plot in that area, their request would be considered when the land plan was being prepared. they submitted that the annulment of their property rights to 3.52 hectares of land had caused them pecuniary damage in the amount of ltl 627,630 (approximately eur 181,770), consisting of the value of the 2.50 hectares of land which had been taken away from them (see paragraph 9 above), according to a private assessment, as well as the amounts which the applicants had been ordered to pay to s.m. on 31 december 2012 the nls held a meeting at which candidates were offered plots in the relevant areas. on 21 august 2014 the nls adopted a land plan of the aforementioned areas around vilnius, as well as the list of individuals who would be allocated plots in those areas. the applicants were included in the list and were entitled to receive two plots of land, measuring a total of 0.203 hectares. the applicants later submitted to the court that those two plots included installations and buildings belonging to third parties. the decision stated that his rights to the remaining 3.29 hectares would be restored at a later date.
the applicant was born in 1972 and lives in i̇zmir. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties and as they appear from the documents submitted by them, may be summarised as follows. the applicant and his brother sell building materials. at that moment, one of the police officers, c.u., fired three rounds towards the applicant. although the applicant’s brother asked the officers to take the applicant to a hospital, they did not listen to him. instead, the applicant and his brother were taken to a police station, where they were placed in custody. the applicant’s brother had shouted and asked the custody officers to take his brother to a hospital. with the offence of intentionally causing a life-threatening injury. there had been no scuffle between him and the applicant when officer c.u. it also found that, although officer c.u. to five months’ imprisonment but suspended the pronouncement of his conviction under article 231 of the criminal code of procedure (see “relevant domestic law” below). in the meantime, the applicant instituted proceedings against the ministry of the interior before the i̇zmir administrative court and claimed 11,000 turkish liras (try) in respect of pecuniary damage and try 50,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage. the ministry of the interior appealed against the decision. the appeal lodged by the applicant against this finding is currently pending.
the applicant was born in 1940 and lives in pervomayskiy, the krasnodar region. it provided, inter alia, for construction of housing for persons wishing to resettle from the far north to various russian regions. and the state unitary enterprise “united direction for construction of the kamchatka region” (the gup) concluded a co‑operation agreement. on 2 february 2001 the applicant brought a court action against the gup for non-compliance with contractual obligations and provision of appropriate housing in accordance with the contract, instead of the flat initially provided to him. on 13 february 2002 the inzhavinskiy district court of the tambov region (“the district court”) rejected the claim. on 15 july 2002 the district court again rejected the claim. it annulled the first-instance judgment and sent the case for a fresh consideration by the first-instance court. on 22 july 2003 the district court supplemented its judgment of 20 june 2003. on 10 march 2004, on the appeal of the defendant, the regional court set aside the judgment as it contained an incorrect interpretation of the substantive law, and remitted the case for a fresh examination. the applicant applied for supervisory review proceedings. according to the government, on 2 november 2007 the applicant applied to the bailiffs’ service with a request to open the enforcement proceedings and enclosed a copy of the writ of execution. on the same date the enforcement proceedings were opened. on 19 september and 7 november 2008 the bailiffs requested that the applicant updates his banking account information. the company, incorporated as a unitary enterprise at the material time, had “the right of economic control” (право хозяйственного ведения) over the assets allocated to it by the administration in order to carry out its statutory activities. in particular, in 2002-2005 the company on several occasions became a client and managed funds in respect of construction projects under various federal targeted programs related to housing provision, including resettlement from the far north, housing for orphans and veterans, and received funds from the regional budget for that purpose.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in chernivtsi. meters metallic shed) of a declared worth of 98,000 ukrainian hryvnas (uah) equivalent at the material time to around 13,950 euros (eur). on 3 april 2006 the applicant participated in this auction and bought the above construction for uah 26,000 (at the material time around eur 4,200). on 10 august 2006 the applicant sold the shed to a private person t. for uah 50,000. on an unidentified date, a third person s. lodged an administrative claim against the bailiffs and the applicant seeking to declare the bailiff’s seizure and sale of the shed unlawful as in fact it belonged to him. in view of this claim, in october 2006 the sales contract between the applicant and t. was annulled by the parties and the applicant returned the money to t. on 23 november 2006 the zalishchytskyy local court of ternopil region found that the shed belonged to s. and thus the bailiffs had unlawfully seized and sold it. there is no information as to whether there was an appeal against this decision. in parallel, criminal proceedings for abuse of office were initiated against bailiff d. in charge of the respective enforcement proceedings. on 16 march 2007 the applicant was given victim status in these proceedings. in the relevant resolution it was noted that the applicant sustained pecuniary damage and had not been reimbursed the money he had paid at the auction. on 2 august 2007 the zalishchytskyy local court convicted the bailiff as charged. in the text of the sentence the applicant is referred to as a witness. apparently, no civil claim was submitted by the applicant in the course of these criminal proceedings. the court further noted that the applicant failed to demonstrate that the shed had been in fact seized from him without any compensation, or that the sales contract with company m. in charge of the auction had been dissolved. to support his claim the applicant reiterated again the civil code provisions.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is detained in poarta albă prison. he sold to the undercover agent on that occasion 1.59 grams of cannabis, 0.23 grams of hashish and a cigarette containing cannabis. at the undercover agent’s request they met again on 25 july 2007. the undercover agent asked for more drugs. on 9 august 2007 the applicant supplied the undercover agent with 0.43 grams of cannabis. the next day the applicant was questioned again in the presence of a lawyer of his own choosing. in 2003 he had decided to stop using drugs. on several occasions he had gathered the cannabis and sold it to different buyers. on 14 may 2008 the county court heard evidence from the undercover agent, in the presence of the applicant who was assisted by his lawyer. the undercover agent stated that he had been introduced to the applicant by a drug user, who had informed him that the applicant had been trying to find buyers for hashish and cannabis. the court based its findings on (i) the statements given by the co‑defendants, the undercover agent and witnesses, (ii) the transcripts of the recorded phone conversations, and (iii) technical and search reports. it also noted that the investigating authorities had found out that the cannabis sold by the co-accused had been gathered from a park located in craiova and that it had been cultivated by c.b.s. the applicant appealed, complaining, inter alia, that the undercover agent had overstepped the legitimate limits of investigation by influencing him and inciting him to sell drugs. he also claimed that even though he had been under police surveillance between july and november 2007, no buyer other than the undercover agent had been identified. it considered the applicant’s plea of entrapment to be unfounded.
the applicant was born in 1974 in khabarovsk and is serving a life sentence in the sverdlovsk region. from 25 may 2012 to 10 april 2014 the applicant was held in penal colony ik-56 in the sverdlovsk region. he was able to have five short visits in 2013 and one short visit in 2014. on 15 july 2013 the applicant asked the governor to allow him a short meeting with four adult relatives, his mother, sister and two cousins. he also asked for the meeting to be held without a glass partition between him and his visitors or the presence of a prison officer. the governor signed his decision on the petition: “rejected. not allowed under the code of execution of sentences”. from 15 may to 16 july 2014 the applicant was transferred to remand prison sizo-1 in khabarovsk – where his family still lived – to take part in another investigation. by a letter of 21 may 2014, the governor rejected his request. he pointed out that, pursuant to section 18 of the pre‑trial detention act, visits are subject to written authorisation from the official or authority in charge of the criminal case. on 3 june 2014 the applicant asked the governor to authorise a long meeting with his mother and sister. three days later the governor replied that the applicable law did not make a provision for long-stay visits in respect of remand prisoners. he referred the applicant to article 77.1 of the ces. on 11 june and 1 august 2014 the investigator and the deputy head of the investigations department, respectively, rejected his request. the applicant challenged the restrictions on family visits before a court of general jurisdiction.
the first applicant was born in 1978 and lives in washington dc, the united states of america (hereafter “the usa”). until 2008 the first applicant had been living in moscow together with his wife e. and their daughter, x. 8. however, b. and s. refused to take x to moscow. b. had told the officials that the first applicant had not visited his daughter. on 9 october 2009 the uzbek childcare authority visited x. the officials found that x’s living conditions were good. on 9 january 2010 the first applicant arrived in tashkent. they also questioned his uncle, who stated that the first applicant lived and worked in the usa. he had a comfortable income and a spacious flat. on the same day the moscow childcare authority questioned b.’s representative, who stated that the first applicant lived in the usa, often travelled for work and could not therefore take care of his daughter. x’s return to her father against her will would traumatise her. on 2 february 2011 the applicant appealed against the decision to discontinue the proceedings. on 19 april 2011 the mayor of the mirzo-ulugbek district of tashkent appointed s. as x’s guardian, finding that her mother had died, that her father’s whereabouts were unknown and that she had been brought up by s. since 2008. on 28 april 2011 the cheremushinskiy district court resumed the proceedings and scheduled the next hearing for 27 may 2011. on 27 february 2012 the childcare authority issued a new opinion on the case. it found that x should remain with her grandparents.
the applicant was born in 1950 and, at the time of the last communication from him to the court, was detained in torez correctional colony. the applicant, represented by a lawyer, stood trial before the kerch court on charges of engaging in sexual intercourse with his stepdaughter, a. (born in 1999), over the period between march 2006 and april 2007. the applicant denied the charges, asserting that he may have broken a.’s hymen by accident while bathing her. on 27 july 2007 the trial court found the applicant guilty of rape and sentenced him to eleven years’ imprisonment. the judgment was based, in particular, on(i) the victim’s statements made at the pre-trial stage;(ii) the statements of a number of witnesses (comprising nannies, a classmate and a psychologist) made during the court hearings, who had reported incriminating statements that a. had made to them. according to the applicant, the trial court had refused to order an additional expert examination to determine whether, because of any disease of his “internal sexual organs”, he had been unable to engage in normal sexual intercourse at the relevant time. on 11 september 2007 the crimea court of appeal upheld the applicant’s conviction. the applicant lodged an appeal in cassation with the supreme court. he argued that there had been insufficient evidence of his guilt. the appeal contained the following statement:“the court’s conclusion as to my guilt is based only on indirect evidence and on the statement of a minor [a.], made in the course of the pre-trial investigation and who, according to a psychiatric expert’s analysis, was suffering from mental retardation” (вывод суда о моей виновности сделан судом только на основании косвенных доказательств, а так же [sic] на показаниях малолетней [a.], которые она дала на досудебном следствии, и которая, согласно заключению судебно-психиатрической экспертизы, страдает умственной отсталостью). however, even if such a penetration had been intentional, it would not have constituted the offence of rape. the applicant asked the supreme court to reclassify his actions as “abuse of a minor” (розбещення неповнолітніх), a lesser offence than rape, and to impose a non-custodial sentence. on 9 june 2008 the supreme court refused to consider the case in cassation and upheld the lower courts’ findings. on 19 january 2009 the court of appeal advised the applicant that he needed to address his request for the copies to the trial court. on 28 january 2009 the supreme court informed the applicant that it was not the court’s practice to issue copies of appeals in cassation or of its decisions.
the applicant was born in 1983 and currently lives in paris. she was then taken to a police station to have her identity verified. the police also found several photographs of an escalator in the okhotniy ryad shopping centre in the centre of moscow. the next day an investigator granted the motion in the part concerning the questioning of a., questioned him and informed the applicant about the decision on her motion. on 2 december 2004 the applicant received a copy of the case file for review. had first met the applicant at a mosque in october 2003. on 3 march 2004 the applicant had told v. and ku. in particular, during her pre-trial questioning v. had testified that the applicant had undergone terrorist training in a camp near baku and that she had been indoctrinating v. and ku. she denied having given her pre-trial statements under pressure. about the manner in which the attesting witnesses were chosen. she further stated that the six photographs of the escalator that had been seized from her flat had been taken by her. however, she had been photographing people at random in the shopping centre, rather than the escalator, and she had done so for recreational purposes. immediately after viewing the videotape the applicant’s lawyer s. submitted oral motions to summon attesting witnesses b. and k. and police officer a. the relevant part of the trial records reads as follows:“lawyer s.: i request to summon the attesting witnesses who were present during the personal search of murtazaliyeva, that is, b. and k., in order to determine the relevant circumstances [and] whether or not plastic explosives were planted. prosecutor: i object, because the accused was questioned and stated that the record [of the search] had been drawn up without any violation of the law...the court decided that the motion for summoning the attesting witnesses would not be granted. the speech by the lawyer u. included the following statement made in passing while describing the applicant’s attitude to the military conflict in chechnya and religion: “i think that this whole criminal case is a set-up against murtazaliyeva by law-enforcement agents.”
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in juodšiliai in the vilnius region. on 4 december 2008 the prosecutor of the vilnius region (hereinafter “the prosecutor”) lodged a claim with the vilnius regional court, seeking to have the applicant’s mother’s property rights to the six hectares given to her annulled. 70520/10 and 2 others, §§ 86-89, 12 june 2018). the applicant and the vca disputed the prosecutor’s claim. the applicant and the vca lodged appeals against that decision, arguing that the restoration of the applicant’s mother’s property rights had complied with the relevant legislation. the applicant also submitted that he was being deprived of his property without any compensation. it is unclear whether he replied to this letter. if he could not be given such a plot, he wished to receive compensation of ltl 251,217. on 7 october 2013 the nls approved the list of candidates to receive plots of land in several areas around vilnius, including pagiriai. the applicant’s mother was included in that list as a candidate to receive six hectares of land. on 22 october 2013 the nls held a meeting in which candidates were offered plots in the relevant areas and the applicant took part in that meeting. according to the minutes of the meeting, which were approved by the nls, he stated that the question of the restoration of his property rights was pending before the european court of human rights, that he was dissatisfied with the available vacant land and that he refused to choose any plots (žemės sklypų nesirinko). on 22 april 2016 the nls held another meeting in which the applicant took part. he therefore “saw no possibility of choosing any plots” (žemės sklypų pasirinkimo galimybių nemato). he again stated that he had lodged an application with the european court of human rights and wished to receive that court’s decision  only then would he decide “what to do with the land which had not been returned to him”.
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in komotini. on 6 april 2010 the applicant accepted her husband’s estate by notarised deed. the treasury was notified and the applicant registered the property transferred to her with the komotini land registry, paying the corresponding registration fees. it does not appear from the case file that the applicant had to pay any inheritance tax on the property transferred to her. on 12 december 2009, meanwhile, the deceased’s two sisters had challenged the validity of the will before the rodopi court of first instance. they asserted a claim to three-quarters of the property bequeathed. the court added that although the application of sharia law was based, inter alia, on international law, and in particular on the combined effect of articles 42 and 45 of the treaty of lausanne, it should not result in the islamic law of succession being applied in such a way as to curtail the civil rights of greek muslims, because the aim of the treaty had not been to deprive the members of that minority of such rights, but to strengthen their protection. the court pointed out that a greek muslim contacting a notary in order to draw up a public will was exercising his right to dispose of his property, in anticipation of his death, under the same conditions as other greek citizens. 1920/1991 the court of cassation allowed the appeal. examining the reasoning of the court of appeal’s judgment, it concluded that that court’s determination of the case had breached the relevant legislative provisions, because the law applicable to the deceased person’s estate had been the islamic law of succession, which formed part of domestic law and applied specifically to greek nationals of muslim faith. the court of cassation remitted the case to the thrace court of appeal. she put forward a number of grounds of appeal. 556/2017 of 6 april 2017 the court of cassation dismissed the appeal on points of law. it did not refer to the convention in its reasoning. as a result of the whole proceedings, the applicant was deprived of three-quarters of the property bequeathed.
the applicant, a turkish national, was born in 1980 in neustadt/weinstraße (neustadt) and lives in speyer. on 2 july 2001 it convicted him on twelve counts of commercial trafficking of drugs and, cumulating it with the judgment of 20 july 2000, sentenced him to juvenile custody for two years and three months. the deferment was revoked two weeks later, after the applicant had been expelled from drug therapy for disciplinary reasons. in august 2008 the sentence was again deferred and the applicant was again admitted to a specialist clinic for the purpose of receiving drug therapy. after serving the initial part of his sentence in prison, the applicant was moved to a psychiatric prison as of august 2011. he was again diagnosed with polysubstance dependence and a combined personality disorder characterised by narcissistic and dissocial symptoms. on 22 april 2003, the competent committee on legal affairs (hereafter - “the committee”) rejected the application for administrative review of the expulsion order. on 18 october 2003 the neustadt administrative court rejected the appeal. 1/80 of the eec/turkey association council of 19 september 1980 (see paragraph 30 below). the applicant’s daughter was born out of wedlock on 23 september 2009. as of that day, j. exercised sole custody rights. in the following weeks, the applicant lived with his daughter and j. in a common apartment, until he was taken into pre-trial custody in november 2009 (see paragraph 13 above). making explicit reference to article 8 of the convention and the court’s case-law, the administrative court established that the reasons at the heart of the expulsion were sufficient to justify it, even though the expulsion might cause hardship for the daughter, who did not live with the applicant. also, other oral communication in turkish had been established, for example two telephone calls with his father from prison. on 7 october 2015, the federal constitutional court did not accept the complaint for adjudication without providing reasons (no.
on 13 june 2006 an investigation was opened into an alleged robbery committed against d.g., it appears that later an investigator made a note on the identification record that the victim had identified the person on photo no. there was no explanation as to why there were contradictory notes. 2, and an order for his arrest was issued. a personal search of the applicant and a subsequent search of his home did not reveal any unlawful items. a shop assistant who had witnessed the whole incident. she described the alleged robber and claimed that the applicant had a different appearance. by a letter of 5 september 2007 the victim once again informed the court that, in view of her pregnancy, she could not appear in court. on 3 march 2007 the applicant was transferred back to the prison hospital, this time with an additional diagnosis that he had developed haziness of the vitreous body in his right eye. in the period april-may 2007, acting at the request of the applicant’s lawyer, a private eye clinic called mzera eye clinic examined the applicant’s medical file and confirmed the diagnosis of a uveal cataract in his left eye. it appears from the case file that, despite the above request, the applicant was not seen by an eye surgeon at that time. a decision was taken on 12 september 2008 to put him on the dots programme again. no entries were made in his file concerning his ophthalmological treatment at the material time. on 18 november 2008 the government submitted the applicant’s medical file to the court, and also gave an account of the treatment which he had been receiving in prison as of january 2007. on 24 march 2009 the applicant was released on probation.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in rustavi. was convicted of murder and sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. on 28 january 2009 an appeal on points of law by g.t. while he was at those facilities, nor has the applicant suggested otherwise. he was examined by a duty doctor, who suspected tuberculosis. with tuberculosis, and recommended that he be transferred to a specialist facility. continued to have treatment under the dots programme. on 24 february 2009 the results of the first susceptibility test showed that g.t. on 10 april 2009 the results of the second susceptibility test were received by the prison hospital, and they demonstrated that the disease was responding to all but one drug out of the second-line drugs. ’s treatment under the dots programme had been adequate. on 13 october 2009 the investigator in charge of the case refused to grant the applicant victim status. on 22 february 2010 the applicant was granted victim status. his sister had allegedly met a doctor at rustavi prison no. ’s sister had been questioned and after a forensic examination of the unsigned and undated prescription had been carried out to identify whether its author was indeed one of the doctors from rustavi prison no. the relevant national and international materials concerning the problem of tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in georgian prisons at the material time, and the world health organization guidelines for the management of drug-resistant tuberculosis are summarised by the court in the case of makharadze and sikharulidze v. georgia (no.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is currently serving a prison sentence in rubtsovsk, altai region. on 2 march 2011 the applicant was arrested. by a judgment dated 17 may 2012 the regional court sentenced the applicant to nineteen years’ imprisonment. on 30 january 2013 the jury returned a guilty verdict in respect of the applicant and three other defendants. on 19 february 2013 juror v. made a statement addressed to the trial judge. had informed the jurors that it was the second trial and that the applicant and other defendants had already been found guilty of her son’s murder. v. had done so and, as a result, had been influenced by this information when finding the defendants guilty. it appears that the trial judge ordered an inquiry in response to v.’s allegations. submitted a written statement denying v.’s allegations. on 28 february 2013 the trial judge asked the bailiffs’ service to conduct an inquiry in response to the statement made by juror v. 15. on 18 march 2013 the deputy head of the bailiffs’ service responded to the trial judge as follows:“it follows from the reports submitted by the bailiffs ... and the bailiffs’ group supervisor that on the relevant dates the jurors were supervised by the bailiff ... while they were in the courtroom or in the jurors’ room. following an appeal lodged by the applicant and two other defendants, on 8 august 2013 the supreme court of the russian federation upheld the applicant’s conviction. as regards the applicant’s argument that ch. the materials in the case file show that ... ch. did not exert undue influence on the jurors.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in moscow. the background facts relating to the planning, conduct and dispersal of the demonstration at bolotnaya square are set out in more detail in frumkin v. russia (no. 2653/13 and 60980/14, §§ 7-33, 4 october 2016). there were numerous clashes between the police and protesters. after a night in detention the applicant was released; on 8 may 2012 she was convicted as charged but exempted from administrative liability. she conducted herself peacefully and did not take part in any acts of violence prior to her arrest. the record of administrative arrest indicated that the applicant had been arrested at 8.45 p.m. at the police station. it contained no mention of the date or time of her release. she signed an undertaking that she would attend court if ordered by the judge to do so. according to the applicant, at the police station she was not allowed to make a phone call, despite making insistent requests. she had no access to drinking water and was given no food. she signed an undertaking that she would attend the court hearing of the administrative case. on 8 may 2012 the justice of the peace of circuit no. on 26 july 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint under chapter 25 of the code of civil procedure with the dorogomilovskiy district court of moscow about her allegedly arbitrary arrest on 6 may 2012 and detention until 7 may 2012, the termination of the rally at bolotnaya square and the conditions of her detention at the police station. on 28 february 2014 the moscow city court upheld that judgment.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in cluj-napoca. he is a university professor and contributor to various magazines and newspapers, mainly of an economic and financial nature. prior to parliamentary elections held at the end of november 2008, the applicant wrote an article about m.i.-i., who was standing as a candidate for one of the national parties. without even knowing exactly what [is wrong], most people of good moral and professional character often choose not to vote any more. it is therefore no longer surprising that the romanian parliament is the institution that enjoys the least public confidence. there are candidates who do everything to become parliamentarians in order to shield their criminal record from the [criminal] acts they committed before becoming senators or deputies. among the many cases of that type, i today present you one. for the following day he might no longer admit to anything, he may switch to another political party, if he is given more, he may even sell part of the electoral district where he ran and if nobody wants it, he can go to smirnov because it is warmer in tiraspol than in huedin.” he alleged that all the material had been meant to discredit him as a candidate. the applicant confirmed that he was the author of the article in question and that everything he had written had been true, as proved by documents from the arbitration tribunal of the cluj chamber of commerce, which would become available to the court. the court held that the applicant had not proved that his statements were true. the court then focused on the terms used by the applicant in his article, in particular calling the defendant an impostor, which was found to be insulting and lacking factual justification as there existed no criminal complaints of fraud against m.i.-i. would accept any compromise for money and would therefore betray the electorate, his party and his country, had exceeded the limits of admissible criticism and had disparaged him. in a final judgment of 21 january 2010 the county court essentially upheld the reasoning of the lower court.
the first applicant was born in 1963 and the second applicant was born in 1965. they live in dogana and faetano, respectively. when the applicants lodged their applications they were serving their prison sentences in san marino. the commission produced a report, chapter two of which was devoted entirely to criminal collusion between company f. and various officials. the first and second applicants were charged in respect of events up to 1 january 2010. the court found that witness statements had been corroborated by the bank accounts showing disbursements, the sums of money deposited by the applicants in their bank accounts in the relevant years (2005‑12), and the testimony of another person, who had stated that she had often seen the officials come to the office to meet m. (the formal administrator of a company which was owned and actually controlled by b.) for very brief periods. the fact therefore that the applicants had agreed to refrain from exercising their discretionary powers or to do so in an aberrant way in exchange for money constituted direct bribery. as to the penalty, the judge stated, in general terms, that he had calculated it on the basis of parameters such as the number of acts of bribery, the type of acts which had been the subject of the bribery, the role of each accused person and the time‑frame in which they had carried out the criminal act. on 13 february 2015, the applicants appealed. they complained, inter alia, that before the passing of law no. by a judgment filed in the registry on 12 january 2016 the judge of criminal appeals (giudice d’appello penale) upheld the first‑instance judgment in the part relating to the applicants, but reduced the sentence to five years’ imprisonment, a four‑and‑a‑half‑year prohibition on holding public office and exercising political rights, and a fine of eur 20,000. it was noted that the bank account deposits made by the first and second applicants indirectly indicated their guilt. the only crime at issue was bribery resulting from the pact struck (patto corruttivo) between b. and the applicants. such favouritism had had specific corresponding rewards according to comparative tables adjusted for the purpose. in conclusion, the judge dismissed the idea that the acts for which the applicants had been found guilty should have been classified merely as bribery inducing omission (formerly indirect bribery, then qualified as direct bribery after the entry into force of the new law).
the applicants, petra wunderlich, who was born in 1967, and dirk wunderlich, who was born in 1966, are married to each other. the applicants reject the state school system and compulsory school attendance and wish to homeschool their children themselves. the applicants refused to register her in a school. the applicants accepted these decisions and paid the fines, but did not change their behaviour. between 2008 and 2011 the applicants lived with their children abroad. in 2011 they returned to live permanently in germany, but did not register their children with any school. it also ordered the applicants to hand their children over to the youth office for enforcement of the rules on compulsory school attendance and authorised the youth office to use force if necessary. lastly, the court concluded that no less severe measures were available. in a letter dated 15 november 2012 the youth office informed the applicants that it intended to assess the children’s knowledge on 22 november 2012 and asked the applicants to have their children ready to be collected on that day. however, staff of the education authority were not allowed to enter the family home when they arrived for the appointment in january 2013. the education they were receiving from the applicants could not compensate for not attending school. moreover, by their persistent refusal they were also teaching the children that they did not need to comply with the rules of community life if they found them disagreeable. the children had to be carried out of the house individually with the help of police officers after they had refused to comply with the court bailiff’s requests to come out voluntarily. the court held that, as pointed out in its decision of 25 april 2013 (see paragraph 15 above), the applicants’ persistent refusal to send their children to school constituted child endangerment and that neither their temporary schooling nor the learning assessment of the children had changed that conclusion. moreover, the learning assessment had showed that the knowledge level of the children was not alarming and that the children were not being kept from school against their will.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in sofia. the applicant’s grandfather owned part of a real estate. he donated his part to the applicant’s cousins in 1997. the applicant’s grandfather died on 16 january 2003. on 13 february 2004 the applicant brought proceedings under section 30 of the inheritance act 1949 before the sofia district court. she claimed that, by donating his part in the immovable property in 1997, her grandfather had infringed her right to a “reserved share” in his inheritance, given that the immovable property in question represented his entire estate. in a decision of 2 march 2005 the court upheld her claim by diminishing the part of the estate donated to the applicant’s cousins and restoring the applicant’s “reserved share” in her grandfather’s inheritance. following an appeal by the other party, on 20 september 2007 the sofia city court quashed the first instance court’s judgment and rejected the applicant’s claim for restoration of her “reserved share” in her grandfather’s estate. in particular, referring to interpretative decision no. 1 of 4 february 2005 by the supreme court of cassation (“scc”), the court found that the applicant had not complied with the statutory requirements for claiming her reserved share. the court held that, given that her cousins to whom the real estate had been donated could not be considered “heirs-at-law”, the applicant should have claimed the reserved share of the inheritance by means of an “inventory”. following a cassation appeal brought by the applicant, on 24 march 2009 the scc upheld the sofia city court’s findings in full in a final decision.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in baku. the applicant worked as an investigative journalist since 2005. on 3 april 2013 she published an investigative report entitled “offshore companies provide link between corporate mogul and azerbaijan’s president”. on 9 march 2012 the applicant reported the above-mentioned letter to the prosecution authorities and lodged a formal request for an investigation, arguing that the letter amounted to blackmail related to her recent journalistic activities. the article spoke about a number of scandals in which various opposition politicians had been involved. while the investigation in connection with the threatening letter and the posting of the first video was under way (see below), in july 2013 another video of the applicant and her then boyfriend filmed in the applicant’s bedroom was posted on “ictimaipalatka.com”. as noted above, on 9 march 2012 the applicant reported the threatening letter received on 7 march 2012 to the ministry of internal affairs and the prosecutor general’s office, complaining that it was blackmail in connection with her journalistic activity, and asking the prosecution authorities to ensure her safety, to investigate the matter, and to hold those responsible for the threat and the video accountable. he had also heard other people at work with the wires inside the flat. according to the applicant, despite her objections, he did not include mr n.j. the investigator of the baku city prosecutor’s office, took a formal decision granting the applicant’s request to have mr n.j. no further documents concerning the investigative steps taken have been made available to the court by the parties. on 28 august 2013 the applicant lodged another complaint with the sabail district court under the judicial supervision procedure, with content similar to that of the previous complaint of 12 august 2013. on 18 september 2013 the applicant lodged a third complaint with the sabail district court under the judicial supervision procedure, which was again rejected by that court on 30 september 2013, and by the baku court of appeal on 17 october 2013. as mentioned above, in response to the applicant’s complaint of 13 april 2012, on 26 april 2012 the prosecutor general’s office and the baku city prosecutor’s office published a status report on the investigation (see paragraph 36 above). in all, the report gave the full names of fifteen people, as well as the professional occupations of most of them.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in vrbovec. he was detained on 30 november 2013 and on 2 december 2013 he was placed in the zagreb prison hospital for treatment. on this basis, the court ordered his internment in a psychiatric institution, in accordance with the protection of individuals with mental disorders act. the court also decided that he would remain detained until the judgment became final. on 4 june 2014 the supreme court dismissed the applicant’s request for extraordinary review on the grounds that there was no reason to call the impartiality of judge lj.b into question. after the criminal court’s judgment became final, on 19 march 2014 the file was forwarded to the zagreb county court (hereinafter “the county court”) as the court with competence to rule on the applicant’s involuntary placement in a psychiatric hospital under the protection of individuals with mental disorders act (see paragraphs 34 and 36 below). the applicant’s lawyer in the criminal proceedings. on the same day the county court opened the proceedings for the applicant’s committal to a psychiatric hospital. a psychiatrist from a different psychiatric hospital to the one in which the applicant was placed, concerning the possibility of granting the applicant therapeutic leave. was of the opinion that short-term therapeutic leave from the hospital could be granted. he stressed that all his previous attempts to contact the hospital had been to no avail. at the same time, the county court granted the applicant therapeutic leave for the period between 28 and 31 august 2014. on 19 december 2014 a three-judge panel of zagreb county court dismissed the appeal as ill-founded on the grounds that a lawyer had been duly appointed to represent the applicant in the proceedings concerning his involuntary hospitalisation. on 3 june 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the constitutional complaint, endorsing the reasoning of the three-judge panel of the county court. on 24 august 2015, following a further examination of the applicant’s situation, the county court ordered the applicant’s conditional release from the hospital.
the applicant was born in 1981 and lives in the ventspils district. on 6 december 2001 the applicant was convicted of kidnapping, aggravated murder and aggravated extortion and sentenced to twenty years’ imprisonment. this judgment was upheld at two levels of appeal and took effect in 2002. male inmates who had been convicted of serious crimes started serving their sentences in closed prisons, while female inmates who had been convicted of the same crimes started serving their sentence in partly-closed prisons. on 30 september 2008 the applicant was informed that his father had died. in the years 2012-2015 the applicant was granted one prison‑leave day per year. it followed that the persons placed in those prisons were particularly dangerous to the society. hence, the restriction imposed on the applicant was proportionate and necessary in a democratic society. on 9 july 2008 the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint, arguing that section 504(1) of the sentence enforcement code was discriminatory on the grounds of sex, in breach of article 91 of the constitution. in particular, the applicant had failed to specify why the difference in treatment between men and women should not be acceptable. on 5 september 2008 the constitutional court again declined to institute proceedings. with respect to the first sentence of article 91 of the constitution, which addressed the principle of equality, the constitutional court pointed out that the following criteria had to be examined – the existence of comparable groups, a difference in treatment between those groups, and a lack of objective and reasonable justification for that difference in treatment. as the legal reasoning advanced by the applicant was based on the assumption that men and women who had committed similarly grave crimes were in comparable situations, the constitutional court considered this reasoning evidently insufficient for the claim to be allowed. in a third constitutional complaint of 20 october 2008, the applicant added that on 2 october 2008 he had been refused permission to leave prison to attend his father’s funeral. on 21 november 2008 the constitutional court declined to institute proceedings, invoking section 20(6) of the law on the constitutional court.
the applicant, mr fabian gjini, a croatian citizen of albanian origin, was born in 1972 and lives in crikvenica, croatia. upon his arrest, the applicant was taken before an investigating judge. on 30 september 2008 the criminal proceedings against the applicant were discontinued by the prosecuting authorities, because the expert tests performed on the allegedly counterfeit banknote showed that it was actually genuine. according to the applicant, his cellmates raped him. he also had impression that everything that happened to him was because of his origin and nationality. several days after the start of his detention, the applicant’s lawyer noticed changes in the applicant’s behaviour and sensed that something was wrong. the applicant was afraid to say anything to his lawyer. on 25 december 2009 the applicant lodged a civil complaint against the republic of serbia with the second municipal court (subsequently renamed the court of first instance) in belgrade. on 15 june 2010 a hearing was held before the court of first instance. could not remember whether someone had screamed at night. confirmed that shaved eyebrows in prison meant that the person had been raped. he also saw the damaged skin on the applicant’s feet. noticed that the applicant had been shaved and his eyebrows had also been shaved. this witness remembered the applicant, but was not exactly sure what had happened to him during his time in the prison. on 24 february 2010 the applicant’s representative complained to the provincial ombudsperson (pokrajinski ombudsman) regarding the applicant’s ill-treatment in prison.
the applicant was born in 1968 and was detained in lpu-3, chelyabinsk. he entered the corridor, turned to face the wall and took up a spread-eagle position leaning against the wall. the prosecution’s case was that on 2 october 2007 the applicant had refused to be subjected to a body search and had waved his hands to prevent the search. warder b. had warned the applicant about the intention to use force should he fail to comply with the order. having established that he had hit warder l. once and had split his lip, the jury nevertheless concluded that the applicant had caused the injury in an attempt to protect himself. on 28 january 2009 the investigative department of the metallurgicheskiy district of chelyabinsk opened a criminal investigation into the events of 2 october 2007 on charges of abuse of power committed with violence. the investigators had questioned the warders b. and l. mentioned in the acquittal judgment of 2 september 2008, who had testified that they had indeed administered up to six truncheon blows to the applicant’s buttocks because he had refused to go through a body search and had hit warder l. in the face. on 19 november 2012 the investigation was suspended again for failure to identify the alleged perpetrators. therefore, the use of rubber truncheons had been justified. on 28 february 2014 the criminal proceedings against the warders were terminated. it ordered that the violations found be remedied. he also sought apologies from the implicated officials. on 11 august 2011 the tsentralnyy district court of chelyabinsk awarded the applicant 15,000 russian roubles (rub) (353 euros (eur)) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage and dismissed the remaining claims. the applicant lodged an appeal against this decision. on 6 february 2012 the chelyabinsk regional court upheld the decision of 11 august 2011 and rejected the applicant’s appeal.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is now serving his sentence in a detention facility at nizhniy tagil. a gazel prison van was available for transfer. the prison van was manned by four officers. driver g. and major v. were seated in the front, and officers k. and d. were riding in the rear part of the cabin next to the prisoner cells. approximately half way to the destination, prisoners sa., overpowered officer d. and seized his holster containing a handgun. meanwhile, officer k. pushed prisoner ma. aside, drew his gun and told everyone to freeze or he would shoot. were still struggling with officer d. for the gun. the applicant was taken to a local military hospital where his wounded leg was put in a cast. on the following day he was discharged and transferred to a prison hospital. in december 2013 the applicant complained to a prosecutor that he had been injured as a consequence of the grossly negligent actions of convoy officers who had breached the transfer regulations. on 4 december 2014 a deputy prosecutor of the kirovskiy district in ufa rejected the applicant’s complaint against the investigator’s decision. on 5 may 2016 the supervising deputy prosecutor of the bashkortostan republic set the decision aside and ordered a forensic assessment of the applicant’s injury. convoy officers k., d. and v. had been given the status of injured parties in those proceedings.
details concerning the applicants can be found in the appendix. the first applicant owns one seventh undivided share thereof. on 31 march 1962 for a period of seventeen years at a yearly ground rent of 45 maltese liras (mtl), approximately 105 euro (eur). the rent under the new lease regime was mtl 86.54, approximately eur 200 annually. on 9 april 1986 the property was requisitioned by the state and c.c. the owners informed the authorities of this but no action was taken. the owners complained to the ombudsman who, on 29 october 2003, considered that the authorities had not given sufficient attention to the owners’ complaints. pending proceedings, on 11 february 2010, the property was derequisitioned; however the government admitted that although the property had been abandoned by the occupants the government had not recovered the keys. it found a violation of article 1 of protocol no. this estimate was however not binding on the court. indeed the award of eur 7,535 reflected the sums that the owners would have been entitled to as rent for the premises according to the provisions of chapter 158 of the laws of malta, and thus it was not an award in compensation for the violation of their property rights, nor did it reflect an award for the occupation of the premises at undervalued rents. thus, in total it awarded compensation of eur 12,535 covering both pecuniary and non‑pecuniary damage, without prejudice to any claims the owners may have for material damage caused to the property, and it ordered that the costs of the proceedings at both instances be split equally between the contending parties. predecessor of the second and third applicant, died. eventually, in or around august 2014, the keys were also returned to the owners, and the property was returned to them in a poor state. the applicants claimed that the property was not habitable and the works started by l.l.
the applicants were both born in 1968 and live in marsalforn and naxxar, respectively. the contract of emphyteusis expired in 2007. however, given article 12a, of the housing (decontrol) ordinance, chapter 158 of the laws of malta (see relevant domestic law), which provided for the automatic conversion of the emphyteusis into a lease, mr and ms a. continued to occupy the property by title of lease. however, the applicants did not accept this rental amount on the ground that it was insignificant when compared to the rental value which the property would have fetched on the open market. due to this refusal the rent was to be deposited with the court registry. the costs of the proceedings were to be paid by the housing authority and mr and mrs a. 13. the applicants made submissions in reply to the appeal lodged by the defendants, and asked the constitutional court to confirm the first‑instance judgment. it confirmed that the requisition order constituted an interference with the applicants’ property and amounted to a violation of the applicants’ rights under article 1 of protocol no. furthermore, the constitutional court reduced the compensation due as non‑pecuniary damages from eur 50,000 to eur 12,000. the deterioration of the property also caused damage to the owners as substantial costs would have to be incurred in order to carry out repairs. nevertheless the court considered that mr and ms a., could still be protected through the lease agreement. as to redress, the constitutional court observed that the first‑instance court had awarded compensation in the light of the court‑appointed architect’s valuations of the property and the expenses required to rehabilitate the property. on 5 august 2014 the housing authority derequisitioned the property of the applicants. according to the applicants, the housing authority failed to reply. the authorities refused to co-operate and informed the applicants that if they wished they could draw up a report at their own expense.
the applicant, who was born in 1972, lives in i̇zmir. on 29 november 2004 the applicant was taken into police custody on suspicion of membership of a terrorist organisation. on 3 december 2004 the applicant was brought before the judge at the istanbul assize court who placed him in detention on remand taking into consideration the nature of the offence, the state of evidence and the risk of absconding. on 7 december 2004 the istanbul public prosecutor filed an indictment with the istanbul assize court, charging the applicant with membership of a terrorist organisation. on 14 march 2006 the istanbul assize court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment. the court ordered the continuation of his detention. on 24 january 2007 the court of cassation quashed the judgment on procedural grounds. the case was accordingly remitted to the istanbul assize court. on 19 july 2007 the 10th chamber of the istanbul assize court held a further hearing, in which both the applicant and his lawyer were present. at the end of that hearing, the court ordered the continuation of the applicant’s detention. on 25 july 2007 the applicant’s lawyer filed an objection against the decision of 19 july 2007. on 7 august 2007 the 11th chamber of the istanbul assize court dismissed this objection without holding a hearing. in delivering its decision, the court took into consideration the written opinion of the public prosecutor, which had not been communicated to the applicant or his representative. on 6 november 2007 the istanbul assize court once more convicted the applicant and sentenced him to six years and three months’ imprisonment and ordered his release. on 30 january 2012 the court of cassation upheld this decision.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in chișinău. she did not pay much attention to that, since that was not the first time when a seal was missing. it appeared that forty-seven thousand euros (eur) was missing from that bag. the branch from which the bag of money came was contacted; however, its employees stressed that the bag had been sealed upon its dispatch. on 2 october 2015 a search was carried out at the applicant’s home but nothing of interest for the investigation was found. on the same day, the applicant was arrested and placed in detention. on 5 october 2015 the applicant was charged with the offence of theft in the amount of eur 47,000. nevertheless, the court noted that during the hearing the prosecutor had indicated that the other co-accused had stated that the money could have been stolen by the applicant because she had taken bags from the stack of bags in which the unsealed bag had been found and she had had a suspicious behaviour. the court concluded that there was a reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed an offence. the applicant had a permanent abode, a job, family and no criminal record. there were no reasons to believe that she would hinder the investigation in circumstances in which her involvement in the offence was unclear. on 15 october 2015 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the appeal lodged by the prosecutor. it quashed the decision of 5 october 2018 and ordered the applicant’s remand in custody for a period of thirty days. the court considered that there was a risk of absconding, interference with the investigation and collusion with the other co-accused persons. as to the reasonable suspicion that the applicant had committed the offence imputed to her, the court noted that the applicant had not contested its presence.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in lipetsk. acting on behalf of herself and her daughter maria, a minor. the contract stipulated that the property was not “mortgaged, encumbered by any claims of third parties, disputed or charged”. they had lived there with their four children: yelena, mikhail, dmitriy and maria. mikhail and dmitriy were given long prison sentences in 1998 and 2004 respectively and were still serving them at the material time. yelena moved out in 1997 to continue her studies in dagestan. in 2006, ms e.m.t and maria became the sole owners of the property by way of privatisation, while mr v.a.v., mikhail, dmitry and yelena declined in writing to exercise their right to obtain their shares of the privatised flat. delayed submitting the contract for state registration, the applicant sought a court order upholding her full title to the property. failed to appear in court, on 2 april 2008 the oktyabrskiy district court in lipetsk struck out the counterclaim and granted the applicant relief in the form of an order compelling state registration of her full title to the property. on 12 november 2008 the title was registered. the applicant then sued the former owner ms e.m.t. on 7 april 2009 the oktyabrskiy district court allowed her claim in part. since there was no arrangement between the owner of the contested property and the defendants regarding the discontinuation of the right to use the property, the court considers that [mikhail, dmitriy and yelena] had a right of use over the flat which was identical [in its scope] to that of the owner; accordingly, there are no legal grounds for allowing [the applicant’s] claim to declare their right of use over the flat terminated. on 27 may 2009 the lipetsk regional court dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the district court’s judgment.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in chișinău. the applicant has been involved in numerous protests against alleged acts of corruption and abuse committed by police officers, prosecutors and judges. each year during the professional holiday of the prosecutors or the police he stages protests involving live animals, toilets, caricatures and masks. according to him, the aim of the protest was to draw public attention to the corruption and the control exercised by politicians over the prosecutor general’s office. the first sculpture represented an erect penis with a picture of the face of a high-ranking politician attached to its head. the sculpture had a white collar and a tie and measured two metres. the demonstration was observed from the beginning by several police officers and numerous journalists approached to interview the applicant. on 2 march 2015 the râșcani district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. the sentence was suspended for a period of three years. in deciding on the sanction to be applied, the court took into consideration the fact that the applicant had previously been sanctioned with fines for similar deeds and that those sanctions had proved to be inefficient. the court based its findings on the statements of several prosecution witnesses who had stated that they had disliked the sculptures exposed by the applicant and had considered them to be indecent and obscene. the fact that some of the prosecution witnesses disliked what they saw was not sufficient to hold him responsible for a criminal offence. by the application of a suspended sentence, he had in fact been forced to abstain from organising further protests for a period of three years or risk being imprisoned. on 20 april 2016 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgments of the lower courts. the decision was notified to the applicant on 19 may 2016.
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in bogdany. this amounted to the official registration of her title to the land in accordance with the domestic procedures. at that point the applicant had not filed a request for the boundaries of the plot to be marked out and was not farming the land. on 26 july 2004 the local administration concluded a lease agreement with the private company b., according to which the company would rent the applicant’s land and pay the rent to the local administration. the applicant was not informed about this agreement. she learnt of the lease agreement only in september 2004, after the private company b. had planted seeds on the land. on 4 october 2004 the applicant requested the local administration to allow her to establish the boundaries of her land. in this connection, on 19 october 2004, the local administration ordered the termination of the lease agreement with company b. and authorised the applicant to carry out work to mark out of the boundaries of her land. in july 2005 the company removed its crop from the applicant’s land. on 25 july 2005 amendments were introduced to the lease agreement of 26 july 2004, excluding the applicant’s plot of land from the list of leased lands. on 2 june 2006 the varva local court of chernigiv region allowed the applicant’s claim. the court concluded that the lease agreement of 26 july 2004 had violated the applicant’s property rights and was to be declared invalid. the compensation, in the court’s view, should have been paid to the applicant both by the local administration and by company b., as they were jointly and severally liable for the unauthorised use of the applicant’s land. on 12 september 2006 the chernigiv regional court of appeal quashed the above-mentioned judgment. on 7 june 2006 the varva local court of chernigiv region left this claim unexamined because of the applicant’s attitude, citing the fact that she had been absent from the court hearings in her case on numerous occasions without good reason.
the applicant, is a company specialising in air transportation. at the time of the events it had a valid air operator certificate (an “aoc”) issued by the moldovan civil aviation state authority (the “casa”). on 1 june 2007 the casa issued an order banning all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007. between 4 and 8 june 2007, all moldovan aviation companies were subjected to a check by the european union safety committee. according to the report, the casa had undertaken to remedy the situation within three months. on 18 june 2007 the casa sent the applicant company aviation instruction no. 2584 and asked it to present by 21 june 2007 a plan for remedying the irregularities found by the eu safety committee. the corresponding plan was sent by the applicant company to the casa on 21 june 2007. on 21 june 2007 the casa issued order no. 102/gen withdrawing the applicant company’s aoc, and thereby terminating its activity. since the casa had not observed those legal provisions, its actions were unlawful. on 3 december 2008 the chişinău court of appeal rejected the applicant company’s action, finding that the casa had been entitled to withdraw its aoc because serious irregularities threatening the safety of the flights had been found by european experts, and because those irregularities had not been remedied. the court of appeal did not indicate the irregularities to which it referred. the applicant companies challenged the decision before the supreme court of justice. on 29 april 2009 the supreme court of justice dismissed the appeal and upheld the judgment of the court of appeal after finding that the casa was entitled to revoke the aoc since the applicant company had failed to comply with its instructions concerning the ban on all flights of aircraft registered in moldova to iraq and afghanistan, with effect from 15 july 2007.
on 4 september 2000 the president of russia appointed ms g. to the office of judge of the syktyvkar town court for a period of three years. on 21 may 2004 the state council of the komi republic appointed ms g. to the office of justice of the peace of lesozavodskiy judicial district of syktyvkar for three years. on 4 and 22 june and 6 july 2010 justice of the peace g. found the applicant guilty on seven counts of road traffic offences and sentenced him to administrative detention and a fine. on an unspecified date the applicant appealed against the five judgments of 4 june 2010, arguing, inter alia, that the justice of the peace who had considered his cases had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws. the district court discerned no irregularities as regards the appointment of ms g. to the office of justice of the peace. on 6 august 2010 the syktyvdinskiy district court upheld the judgments on appeal. on 22 december 1999 the judicial qualifications board granted ms ch. on 11 january 2011 the president of the supreme court relieved ms ch. of her duties of office of acting justice of the peace. the applicant appealed, arguing, inter alia, that ms ch. had been appointed to the office in contravention of the applicable laws. the court discerned no irregularity as regards ms ch. ’s appointment to the office of justice of the peace. on 7 october 2010 justice of the peace ch. had to pay as child support for the parties’ minor daughter.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in batumi. in batumi on suspicion of possession of illegal drugs, by members of the special operations unit (სოდის სამმართველო) of the ministry of internal affairs (“the mia”). at 5:35 p.m. on the same day the applicant underwent an external visual examination at the batumi no. soon afterwards an ambulance was called for the applicant. he was pre-diagnosed as suffering from possible concussion and was recommended for a transfer to a medical establishment. an hour later an ambulance was called again. after a brain tomography examination and other medical check-ups the diagnosis of a head injury was not confirmed. he was diagnosed instead with a fracture of the maxillary sinus on the right side, multiple bruises, and excoriations on his face and body. he was then taken back to the temporary detention centre. on the same date the investigator dealing with the case ordered a forensic examination of the applicant. he maintained his allegations of ill treatment, claiming that he had been beaten during the arrest as well as after he was transferred to the special operations unit at the mia. they both confirmed that the applicant had had multiple injuries when he had arrived at the detention centre, and that in reply to their question he had claimed that he had sustained those injuries during the arrest. he had not provided any additional details, and had not made any complaints against the arresting police officers. by a letter of 15 january 2009 the prosecutor dealing with the case informed the applicant’s lawyer that the investigation was still pending, and that in view of the conflicting evidence it was impossible to establish whether the force used against the applicant during the arrest had been proportionate or not. on 18 march 2009 the batumi city court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to fourteen years and three months’ imprisonment and a fine.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lives in skopje. the applicant submitted that from an early age he became aware that he was male rather than female. the applicant started taking hormones to increase his testosterone levels. on 1 june 2011 the applicant applied for a change of his first and family name. in a decision of 7 june 2011 the ministry of the interior allowed that application, registering the applicant under a clearly male forename (the applicant also changed his surname). soon after, it issued the applicant with a new identity card bearing his new name. sex reassignment surgery was unavailable in the respondent state and unjustified in his case. furthermore, such a requirement would subject him to unwanted medical treatment and sterilisation, in breach of his rights. in this connection it held that section 23 of the civil status registration act did not specify any requirement to have the sex/gender marker changed; it only contained an instruction to administrative authorities regarding the evidence to be adduced and assessed in such proceedings. on 11 june 2013 the applicant underwent a double mastectomy (breast removal) in belgrade and continued his hormonal therapy. the registry also requested that the ministry of health specify the nature of the certificate and the authority competent to attest to the change of the applicant’s sex. in reply, the ministry of health stated that the sex alteration procedure was not specified in health-related regulations and suggested that evidence regarding prior medical intervention in respect of the applicant should be taken into consideration. the applicant appealed against that decision. on 28 february 2018 the registry rejected (отфрла) the applicant’s application for lack of jurisdiction (ненадлежност), holding that it did not concern the rectification of an error in an entry, but the alteration of the sex/gender marker in the civil status register. the proceedings before the administrative court are underway.
the applicant was born in 1987 and was detained in prison in rustavi at the material time. he claimed that he could identify both of them. on the next day, the applicant was arrested on suspicion of the armed robbery of the taxi driver. neither a body search of the applicant nor a search of his apartment revealed any unlawful items. during his initial questioning as an accused, the applicant gave a detailed statement providing an alibi and naming all the people with whom he had spent the evening of the crime, or who had seen him on that evening. on 7 december 2007 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the investigator in charge of the case requesting that he question twelve persons who could confirm the applicant’s alibi. as for the remaining potential witnesses, according to the investigator, they had not been with the applicant at the time of commission of the offence in question. her request was granted and the hearing was re-scheduled for 6 may 2008. she noted that the applicant’s alibi should have been verified and she requested, in that connection, on the basis of article 468 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp”), that seven witnesses be questioned. having heard the parties, the trial judge rejected the request of the defence on the basis that it did not comply with article 475 of the ccp. on 22 may 2008 the tbilisi city court convicted the applicant as charged and sentenced him to seven years and six months’ imprisonment. the report stated that both fibres had a similar nature, colour, colour tonality, fibre structure and type of dye. the applicant appealed against his conviction. on 15 july 2008 the appeal proceedings started. none of the defence witnesses was questioned during the appeal proceedings.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. the perpetrators have not been identified by the investigating bodies. it appears that the proceedings are still pending. on the same day two rovd officers, mr d. yasayev and mr i. makayev, confirmed that mr askhab soltagirayev had been detained there until at least 2 p.m. and then taken to the premises of a department of the federal security service. the second applicant was informed of that decision. on 21 april 2008 the investigation was resumed. on an unspecified date between january and april 2013 the applicant lodged a request with the investigators for them to resume the investigation and grant him victim status in the criminal case. the first applicant is the mother of mr timur tsakayev, who was born in 1976. on 7 october 2010 the proceedings were resumed. on 28 october 2010 the investigators obtained a sample of the first applicant’s dna for comparison with dna taken from unidentified remains; the results of that comparison remain unknown. on 14 march 2006 the prosecutor informed her that the proceedings had been suspended but that the search was still in progress. on 14 april 2002 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case and questioned by the investigators. between midnight and 1.15 a.m. on that date they made a forced entry into the applicants’ houses, arrested mr bashkuyev and mr arsayev, put them into the military vehicles, and drove off to an unknown destination. between july and august 2007 the investigators sent a number of requests to law-enforcement authorities asking whether mr bashkuyev and mr arsayev had been suspected of criminal activities and arrested on that account. subsequently, the proceedings were suspended on 27 january 2011, 10 september 2012 and 28 november 2013, and resumed on 30 august 2012 and 28 october 2013.
the first applicant was born in 1973 and lives in horná kráľová. the second applicant was born in 1980 and lives in nitra. on 14 march 2014 a judge of the nitra district court remanded the applicants in detention pending trial on the charge of continuous criminal offence of insurance fraud. this followed their arrest on 11 march 2014. with respect to the first applicant, the district court decided that there were reasons to suspect that he would influence witnesses, reoffend and continue to make illegal financial gains. with respect to the second applicant, the district court concluded that there was a reason to suspect that he would interfere with witnesses and his co-accused to influence the evidence they would give. on 21 march 2014 both applicants lodged an interlocutory appeal, arguing that no specific factual elements had been relied on in the district court’s decision to justify their pre-trial detention. on 1 april 2014 the nitra regional court dismissed the applicants’ interlocutory appeals, referring to the findings of the district court. they each requested just satisfaction of 5,000 euros (eur). the constitutional court joined their complaints and on 24 september 2014 found a violation of their rights under article 5 §§ 1 and 4 of the convention. it quashed the relevant part of the decision of the regional court and awarded each of the applicants eur 1,000 as just satisfaction in addition to their legal costs and expenses in the amount of eur 284. the constitutional court noted that where the ordinary courts used only formal and standard phrases in their decisions on detention (as was the case with the applicants), suspicion arose as to whether they had looked properly at the specific circumstances at hand. it concluded that even though the ordinary courts had referred to some specific facts, which allegedly justified the applicants’ detention, they had failed to explain them in their decisions. furthermore, the regional court had not dealt with some of the applicants’ core arguments and thus had not remedied the shortcomings of the district court’s decision. in the meantime, on 30 may 2014 the applicants had been released and placed under supervised probation.
the applicant was born in 1962 and lives in costesti. on 16 july 2008 the ialoveni district court found the applicant guilty of disrespectful conduct towards a police officer and sentenced him to five days’ administrative arrest. on 12 august 2008 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the above‑mentioned judgment and returned the case for a re‑examination on the merits. on 11 february 2009 the ialoveni district court discontinued the proceedings against the applicant as a result of the expiry of the time-limit for applying an administrative sanction. meanwhile, the applicant had already served his sentence. on 13 march 2009 the chișinău court of appeal quashed the judgment of the district court and discontinued the administrative proceedings in respect of the applicant for lack of corpus delicti. the applicant brought an action under law no. 1545 seeking 300,000 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 18,750 euros (eur)) in compensation for non-pecuniary damage. on 11 may 2011 the supreme court of justice concluded that the applicant’s administrative arrest had been unlawful and thus awarded him mdl 8,000 (equivalent to eur 500) as compensation for the damage caused.
the applicants are fifty russian nationals. their dates of birth and places of residence are listed in appendixes i, ii, iii and iv. in some cases the defendants were subsequently replaced by the housing provision department of the ministry of defense. the judgments in favour of other applicants were enforced on the dates listed in the appendixes below. pursuant to the judgment in favour of mr medinskiy (appendix iii) the authorities decided to allocate a flat to the applicant on 6 november 2015. on 21 january 2016 he registered his title to the flat. according to the transfer and acceptance act, the applicant accepted the flat on 13 november 2015. on 25 april 2013 the hosing department of the ministry of defense found that overall size of the applicant’s living premises (see paragraphs 13 and 15 above) exceeded the housing norms for the respective region. in the meantime, the defendant twice applied to the domestic courts with a request for termination of the enforcement proceedings, as the applicant’s name had been removed from the list of persons in need of housing, and there had “no longer been a possibility to enforce the judgment”. the court found that the first-instance court had incorrectly interpreted the applicable law. there was no evidence that the judgment in the applicant’s favour could no longer be enforced. the decision specified that he had been duly notified of the date and time of the examination of the case. on 16 february 2017 the civil division of the military court of the moscow command upheld the decision on appeal. the proceedings were held in written form. further, on 20 december 2016 he was informed of the date and the place of the hearing by phone.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic or in the republic of ingushetia. in reply, the investigators informed her that the proceedings had been suspended. there is no information about further developments. about a month after the abduction, a man visited the second applicant and told her that mr murad zakriyev was detained at the main military base of the federal forces in khankala, chechnya. among other details mr v.s. noted that during the two‑hour trip in the gazelle minivan after the abduction, the perpetrators had used portable radio sets. on 10 march 2010 the proceedings were resumed. then the service personnel took him away for an identity check. on 26 february 2007 the shali district prosecutor opened a separate criminal case under article 161 of the cc (robbery) into the theft of the applicants’ belongings by the abductors. on 8 february 2010 the applicants asked the investigating authority to resume the criminal proceedings and grant them access to the investigation file. the first applicant is the mother of mr umar ozdamirov, who was born in 1962. on 6 june 2011 the investigators suspended the proceedings once again. on 26 december 2004 the applicant was granted victim status in the criminal case. on 11 january 2005 the investigators questioned mr mayr-khadzhi gerikhanov’s sister, who stated that the commanding officer of the shali district had established that mr mayr-khadzhi gerikhanov’s abductors’ car had had the registration plate a452ax and that it had been seen entering the premises of military regiment no. on 14 april 2009 the applicant asked the chechen president to assist in the search for her husband. on 12 june 2003 the latter opened criminal case no.
the applicants claim to be the owners of the land at issue in the present case. it appears from the documents in the case‑file that the applicants along with two other persons own one third undivided shares of part of that property. sometime later pc was notified with an offer of compensation in the amount of 4,492 maltese liras (mtl), approximately 10,464 euros (eur) in respect of the six plots of land mentioned above. he refused to accept the amount of compensation. however, parts of the same six plots were not used for this purpose and land b remains unused to date. by a final judgment of 28 december 2001, the constitutional court found in favour of the applicants and declared the government’s declaration in respect of that land (which was outside the freeport zone) as without effect from the date of the first‑instance judgment, 9 april 1999. as a result of the constitutional court’s judgment, the proceedings before the lab were ceded by the col on 8 april 2003. the freeport was eventually privatised in 2001 and sold to an international company in 2004. the parties agreed that they would attempt to find relevant documentation to this effect. by a decree of 30 september 2010 the applicants as heirs of their parents who passed away intervened in the proceedings in their stead. it thus declared the governor declaration in that respect to be null and void. it however rejected the applicants’ claims in connection with land a, which it considered had been taken from the applicants in the public interest. both the applicants and the defendants appealed. it followed that no compensation was due in that respect. however, in such a circumstance the constitutional court considered that it could not give a remedy to the applicants in the absence of proof of their ownership.
the applicant company has its registered office in essingen, germany. from the 1990s onwards the applicant company regularly purchased scrap metal from a. safaryan and associates llc, a limited liability company registered in armenia (“the llc”). 7.2  if it is not possible to settle such disputes amicably, these matters shall, with the exception of those falling within the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts, be referred to the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of the country of the respondent. the purpose of the loan was to assist the llc in paying off a bank loan. in subsequent correspondence, the director of the llc acknowledged the debt but deferred its repayment, each time providing different reasons. on 7 november 2007 the llc requested the commercial court to leave the applicant company’s claim unexamined on the grounds that the contracts of 8 february 1999, 10 april 2000 and 2 april 2003 contained a dispute resolution clause whereby disputes concerning their performance would be resolved by the arbitration tribunal of the chamber of commerce of the country of the respondent. it found that, as the contract of 2 april 2003 contained an arbitration clause, the agreement of 28 october 2005 was also subject to arbitration. according to the applicant company, its representative told the registrar that the conclusion with the llc of this type of new agreement was at that point impossible and unreasonable, since the commercial court had already found that the arbitration clause contained in the contracts was sufficient to start arbitration proceedings. on 7 october 2008 the president of the arbitration tribunal informed the applicant company that its request to start arbitration proceedings would not be granted. in view of the fact that the commercial court had been abolished by that time, on 17 october 2008 the applicant company lodged a claim with the yerevan civil court, seeking to recover eur 116,600 from the llc, representing the amount of the loan and interest. in its reply to the applicant company’s appeal, the llc submitted, inter alia, that the applicant company had failed to provide the arbitration tribunal with copies of the relevant extracts of the contracts that contained the arbitration clause and the relevant decisions of the commercial court. therefore, the tribunal had refused to accept the claim. on 21 july 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the decision of 16 june 2009. in doing so, it stated, in particular, that the applicant company had failed to submit to the arbitration tribunal extracts of the contracts containing the arbitration clause, as a result of which its claim had not been accepted. on 4 august 2009 the applicant company lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1925 and lives in brighton. serious disorder and criminality were features of a number of smash edo protests. in the great majority of cases, the information recorded about mr catt was his name, presence, date of birth and address. in some cases his appearance was also described. following the judicial review proceedings, the applicant wrote to the police to make a further subject access request. of the four additional records, two concerned references to the domestic legal proceedings by third parties. the government indicated in their submissions that one of those has since been deleted. there is no indication of whether there was any police presence or arrests at that event. in a witness statement dated 6 june 2011 prepared in the context of the proceedings introduced by the applicant before the high court, the then national coordinator explained the functions of the national public order intelligence unit (npoiu) and the position as regards retention of data relating to the applicant. it is striking that [the national coordinator] does not say that the information held on mr catt over many years has in fact been of any assistance to the police at all. this is very much a live issue given the relatively vague nature of some aspects of the regime contained in the mopi code and guidance and the criticisms voiced by the divisional court in c (paragraph [54]) [see “relevant domestic law and practice”, below] and by the strasbourg court in m.m. while the information stored was personal information because it related to individuals, it was in no sense intimate or sensitive information. referring back to the national coordinator’s statement (see paragraphs 18 to 20), he identified three reasons for the need to retain such data: (1) to enable the police to make a more informed assessment of the risks and threats to public order; (2) to investigate criminal offences where there have been any, and to identify potential witnesses and victims; (3) to study the leadership, organisation, tactics and methods of protest groups which have been persistently associated with violence. as to the suggestion that it would place too great a burden on the police to undertake frequent reviews, lord toulson pointed out that there was no evidence from the police that this would be over-burdensome. while the court should be slow to disagree with the evaluation of the potential usefulness of evidence by the police if a clear reason for it had been advanced, on the facts of this case lord toulson could not see what value they had identified by keeping indefinitely a record of the applicant’s attendances at events where he had done no more than exercise his democratic right of peaceful protest.
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in buseck. who had already been involved in the independent evidentiary proceedings. on the following day, it sent the case file to h.k. replied to that request by stating that he needed to undergo urgent medical surgery, which he assumed would result in a delay of at least eight weeks. on 12 may 2009 the regional court asked the chamber of commerce to suggest potential replacement experts. the following four months were dominated by a dispute between g.k., the dispute lasted until the middle of january 2010. on 10 august 2010 the regional court again asked g.k. invited the parties to participate in another onsite visit, which was scheduled for 28 october 2010. on 8 august 2011 the regional court forwarded the expert opinion to the parties and asked them to submit comments within five weeks. on 11 may 2012 the regional court asked h.k. on 3 july 2012 the applicant applied to be allowed to inspect the case file. on 23 july 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the court of appeal in which she sought compensation, alleging that the civil proceedings had been excessively lengthy. lastly, an overall assessment of whether the length of proceedings had been reasonable had to be carried out, with regard being paid to the circumstances of the case – in particular the complexity and difficulty of the proceedings. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint; on 3 february 2016, the federal constitutional court declined to accept the constitutional complaint for adjudication, without giving any reasons for its decision (2 bvr 157/14).
the first applicant is the widow and the second applicant is the son of the late john demjanjuk. they were born in 1925 and 1965, respectively, and live in ohio, the united states of america. it sentenced him to a total of five years’ imprisonment for these crimes. the judgment ran to 220 pages plus appendices. both the accused and the public prosecutor filed appeals on points of law against that judgment. defence counsel submitted a brief containing the grounds for the appeal on points of law in november 2011 and subsequently submitted four additional briefs, the last of which was received by the regional court on 12 january 2012. on 24 february 2012, the public prosecutor’s office instructed that the file, along with the submissions by the public prosecutor’s office in response to the defence counsel’s submissions, be transferred to the federal court of justice, which was competent to examine the appeal on points of law. the conviction was based on a thorough examination of the evidence as to the facts and an assessment of all relevant legal aspects. the duration of the trial, which had lasted for almost one and a half years, was attributable, to a significant degree, to the time-consuming strategy pursued by the defence. on 4 october 2012 the munich court of appeal dismissed the immediate appeal as inadmissible due to a lack of standing. the procedural status as an accused in criminal proceedings was personal in nature and could not be transferred, including by way of inheritance. article 6 § 2 of the convention had not been breached. it was permissible, in view of the establishment of the late accused’s guilt by the trial court, to find that there continued to be, at the time the proceedings were discontinued, a state of suspicion against the late accused, and to apply article 467 § 3, second sentence, number 2, of the code of criminal procedure on that basis. on 12 october 2012 counsel filed a complaint to be heard, which the court of appeal dismissed as ill-founded on 15 november 2012. 2 bvr 2397/12), without providing reasons.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in glendale, california, the united states of america. in the course of her employment the applicant had two children, born on 27 march 2008 and 7 may 2010. in particular, she sent such requests in march and september 2009 as regards her first child and then in april and september 2010 as regards her second child. in march 2011 her leave was further extended until 1 september 2011. according to the applicant, on 19 august 2011 she requested another extension of her maternity leave. she handed an envelope with her written request to that effect to her friend h.k., who was to return to armenia on 17 august 2011 after a visit to the united states. on 30 september 2011 the applicant received notice of termination of her employment contract prior to its term. a lawyer and a representative of prudence, a law firm which provided legal services to the british council, replied to the applicant on behalf of that body. in particular, the email stated that the termination of the applicant’s employment had been in full compliance with domestic law and the terms and conditions of the british council. on 30 december 2011 the applicant brought a claim against the british council before the kentron and nork-marash district court of yerevan, contesting the order of 1 december 2011 and seeking reinstatement. on 16 january 2012 the british council was notified by the district court of its taking over of the examination of the case and the judge appointed. on 9 july 2012 judge a.m. rejected the applicant’s claim, finding that her dismissal had been lawful. furthermore, the law firm prudence, of which ar.m. in doing so, the court of appeal did not address the applicant’s arguments regarding the alleged lack of impartiality of judge a.m. in the proceedings before the district court.
the first applicant, mr aleksandr viktorovich ivanov, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1956. on 10 july 1997 the supreme court of ukraine upheld that judgment and it became final. on 29 may 1999 the applicant was transferred to zhytomyr prison. in the course of those examinations he did not raise any health complaints. he was recommended to undergo an in-depth clinical immunology examination. on 25 june 2008, following a regular medical examination by a specialist in infectious diseases, the applicant was diagnosed with stage 2 hiv infection (the cd-4 count was 176 cells). according to the applicant’s medical file provided by the government, in november 2008 he was examined by a doctor from the zhytomyr regional centre for aids prevention and control (“the anti-aids centre”). upon arrival at the lutsk sizo in september 2000, the second applicant was examined by the sizo medical personnel and placed under monitoring as a person who had suffered tuberculosis (tb). according to the applicant, in march 2003 he underwent a medical check and was diagnosed with tb. from june to august 2003 he did not receive any treatment. in september 2003 his treatment was resumed and a special diet was prescribed for him. the parties did not specify the nature of that treatment. on 30 march 2004 he was examined by another tuberculosis specialist and was diagnosed with spontaneously cured tb (спонтанно вилікуваний туберкульоз), and tuberculoma of the upper part of the left lung. the second applicant submitted that he was forced to remain in a bent position with his arms handcuffed behind his back during regular searches of his cell, for outside walks, and on the way to take showers. upon completion of the search, the applicant was taken back to the cell, the handcuffs were removed and he was allowed to stand up straight once the cell door had been closed.
according to the most recently available information, at the time of the events in june 2016 the applicant was detained in kirovograd pre-trial detention facility no. in april 2014 the applicant’s health deteriorated. he complained of fever, abdominal pain and vomiting. on 11 april 2014 the applicant complained of feeling unwell to the prison medical unit. according to the case-file material, he was not prescribed medical treatment. he was diagnosed with acute chronic gastroduodenitis and was prescribed dietary treatment for three days. on 6, 8 and 13 october and 5 november 2014, and 6 march 2015, in response to further complaints by the applicant, he was prescribed outpatient treatment. the parties did not inform the court whether the applicant had undergone the recommended examination. furthermore, he allegedly had no mattress to sleep on. on 30 december 2015 he was early released from the disciplinary cell. on 12 october 2015 the applicant’s lawyer complained to the kirovograd regional prosecutor’s office that the applicant was not receiving the requisite medical care in detention. he submitted, in particular, that the surgery which the applicant required had been postponed owing to the lack of funds. on 23 october 2015 the prison doctor examined the applicant once again and diagnosed him with chronic calculous cholecystitis in unstable remission. on 27 january 2016 the prison service took a decision on the applicant’s transfer to the hospital for the required surgery. the government did not provide documentary evidence in respect of that statement.
the applicants were born in 1976, 1981, 1995 and 1989 respectively and live in karcsa. on 3 september 2013 the applicants, riding in a car driven by the first applicant, arrived at a petrol station in sátoraljaújhely, at about midnight. two additional police cars arrived and the applicants were transported to the sátoraljaújhely police station. the fourth applicant was handcuffed, led to a round table inside the police station, his handcuffs were attached to a leg of the table and his leg was then kicked so that he fell under the table, where he was repeatedly kicked or hit in the head. intimidated, the other applicants signed the waiver. passing by the petrol station in a patrol vehicle, recognised the car described by the staff of the night club, stopped and proceeded to check the applicants’ identities at about 12.45 a.m. the applicants did not co-operate and behaved aggressively towards the officers, calling them names. however, two employees of the petrol station testified that the first and second applicants had refused to prove their identities and had addressed the officers in an unacceptable manner, whereas the latter had instructed the applicants in a business-like, official manner. similarly, the criminal complaint filed by the applicants had not contained any reference to what the first applicant stated in his subsequent testimony, namely that he had been kicked in the head – his left temple – on the flight of steps leading to the entrance of the police station. he could not give an acceptable explanation for this contradiction. however, the audio recordings of the radio traffic did not contain such a statement. the case was investigated by the miskolc investigation office and, subsequently, by the debrecen bureau of the central prosecutorial investigation office. on 16 april 2014 the independent police complaints board, which had been approached by the applicants’ lawyer in parallel to the proceedings outlined above, issued a report on the first applicant’s case. its conclusions were similar to those in the first applicant’s case. as regards the broken scaphoid bone, the expert found that it was an inveterate lesion that had occurred at least six to eight months prior to the incident. in sum, the expert stated that the fourth applicant’s allegation that he had been assaulted for hours on end was not supported by the medical findings.
the applicants were born in 1997 and 1999 respectively and live in bucharest. on 20 july 2010 x, the applicants’ sister, nine-year-old at the time, was grievously injured in a car accident. she was immediately admitted to hospital where, after four days of intense suffering, she died. a criminal investigation for involuntary manslaughter was initiated against the driver of the car. on 26 september 2010, during the pre-trial investigation stage, the applicants, their mother and their older brothers brought a claim for damages in the criminal proceedings. on 24 october 2011 the bucharest district court severed the civil claims from the criminal proceedings. it ordered the driver’s insurance company to pay the damages. the court held that between the civil parties and the nine‑year‑old girl there had been a strong emotional relationship and the girl’s violent death had caused intense pain to her family. therefore, having regard to the negative consequences, the importance of the infringed moral values, the way in which they were perceived by the civil parties, and the impact of their loss on the stability of their family, the court will grant to each civil party the equivalent of 100,000 euros”. all the parties appealed against the judgment. no new pieces of evidence were adduced before the bucharest court of appeal. it ordered the driver of the car to pay the damages, holding that the insurance company’s liability was only contractual and therefore subsidiary. the court further dismissed the applicants’ claim for non-pecuniary damages on the ground that at the time of their sister’s accident they had been younger than fourteen and had therefore been unaware of the negative consequences of her death. in relation to the claims lodged by their older siblings, the court decreased the awards to eur 25,000 each. contended in her statement before the court that the younger brothers were less aware than their older brothers, who suffered...” 14.
from 22 july 2016 the applicant was held in the chernigiv pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”) as a suspect in respect of a crime. on 8 september 2016, while being held at the sizo, the applicant suffered acute myocardial infarction. he was treated at kozeletsk town hospital from 8 until 19 september 2016. on 27 september and 6 october 2016 the applicant underwent examinations at the chernigiv regional cardiological centre. he was diagnosed with ischemic heart disease; acute myocardial infarction; third‑stage hypertonic disease; a hypertensive heart; and second-degree heart failure. the applicant was prescribed outpatient medical treatment and a further heart examination. on the last mentioned date he was recommended to undergo a cardiac ventriculography test. on 15 march 2017, the hospital informed the sizo authorities that the cost of a cardiac ventriculography test was 4,000 hryvnias (uah – approximately 140 euros (eur)). there is no information regarding whether that test was undertaken. on the same day he was returned to the sizo and provided with outpatient treatment. following a further deterioration in the applicant’s health, on 22 june 2017 the ambulance took him to the hospital, where the previous diagnosis (see paragraph 8 above) was confirmed, electrocardiography and cardiac ventriculography tests were recommended, and he was prescribed some medication. the applicant did not receive the prescribed medication in full owing to a lack of funds. the extract furthermore stated that he remained under the supervision of the sizo medical staff and did not require inpatient medical treatment. on an unspecified date the applicant was released from custody. there is no information regarding whether the applicant has undergone the recommended surgery and treatment.
the applicant company is a legal entity registered in mažeikiai. the applicant company was also dissatisfied with the level of the fine and was of the view that that it had been disproportionate. on 8 december 2008 the supreme administrative court delivered its decision, stating that it disagreed with the first-instance court regarding a number of procedural violations but holding that the competition council had not extensively explained why it had ignored the applicant company’s arguments regarding the scope of the market. it submitted that the investigation of the applicant company’s activities had covered the period between 2002 and 2004. the court held that final court decisions had to be executed, and that in view of the fact that the decision of the supreme administrative court of 8 december 2008 had become final (see paragraph 11 above), the competition council had an obligation to reopen the investigation into the applicant company’s activities. the applicant company lodged an appeal, which was dismissed by the supreme administrative court on 13 may 2010. one of the breaches committed by the applicant company had started in 2002; one had started in 2003; and the rest had started in 2004. there was no information that the applicant company had ended its unlawful activities (except for one of them). the competition council decided that the provisions of the code of administrative offences had to be applied in the applicant company’s case and that – irrespective of the rules of the law on competition – the time-limit had to be calculated from the day on which the supreme administrative court had adopted its decision. the competition council also relied on the decision of the supreme administrative court of 13 may 2010, whereby the court held that the competition council had been obliged to reopen the investigation and not to start a new one (see paragraph 15 above). on 15 april 2011 the vilnius regional administrative court dismissed the applicant company’s complaint. the competition council was of the view that the limitation period had not started running before 22 december 2005 and that even if it had, it must have stopped when the competition council had adopted its decision (see paragraph 8 above). on 21 january 2013 the supreme administrative court upheld the arguments of the vilnius regional administrative court (see paragraph 18 above). moreover, the circumstances of the instant case and the one in which the decision of 21 june 2012 has been adopted, are not the same or so similar that they could be examined similarly. the court did however lower the fine to ltl 7,819,450 (approximately eur 2,264,669).
the applicants are shareholders of two savings banks, namely kinizsi bank zrt. (“ kinizsi bank”) and mohácsi takarék bank zrt. (“ their clientele was mostly from the local community. with the active support of the hungarian state and the phare program of the european union, they entered into an integration agreement. otiva, on the one hand, improved the security of deposits placed with the savings cooperatives by supplementing the national deposit insurance fund (országos betétbiztosítási alap – “oba”), and, on the other hand, served to prevent crisis situations and improved the stability of savings cooperatives. they however remained members of otiva and part of the above-mentioned integration. due to the changes in the ownership of the savings bank pursuant to the integration act (see in particular, sections 13 and 20, cited in paragraph 39 below) the shareholding of kinizsi bank and mohácsi bank in the savings bank changed. while the two banks previously possessed 0.15% and 2.27% respectively in the savings bank, they had a 0.12% and 1.83% stake respectively following the implementation of the integration act. the solvency capital of the cooperative credit institutions is determined collectively, including the property of the savings bank and the integration organisation. in july 2013 banks could leave the integration if they were each able to provide an additional huf 2 billion, approximately eur 6 million, as for the creation of a new bank. in 2014 its stake in the savings bank was sold, through a bidding process, to one company. the integration organisation is entitled to suspend the voting rights of the shareholders of the cooperative credit institution for one year if they threaten the reliable and secure operation of the cooperative credit institutions (see section 17/c(5), cited in paragraph 39 below). these cases did not concern kinizsi bank or mohácsi bank. however, both banks were able to comply with the new requirement. the government averred that several further sets of proceedings were pending before hungarian courts in which kinizsi bank or mohácsi bank or their shareholders had sought a remedy against certain decisions of the savings bank or the integration organisation.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in baku, azerbaijan, in 1992 and came to russia in 2003, together with his mother and grandmother. he graduated from a secondary school and a vocational training college in st petersburg. the judgment described him as a “native” (уроженец) and a national of azerbaijan. on 12 february 2014 the federal migration service requested the consulate general of azerbaijan in st petersburg to submit information about the applicant’s nationality. replying to that inquiry, on 14 april 2014 the consulate confirmed that the applicant was not a national of that state. by a judgment of 17 july 2014, as upheld on appeal on 30 october 2014, the st petersburg courts refused to discontinue the proceedings, finding that the bailiff had not shown that she had taken sufficient measures to secure the applicant’s removal. on 7 august 2014 counsel for the applicant asked the st petersburg city court to review the kirovskiy district court’s judgment by way of supervisory review, to annul the sanction of administrative removal and to release the applicant. on 27 november 2014 the applicant was released. from 20 february to 5 may 2014 he was held in a smaller, seven‑square-metre cell (cell 310), together with five or six persons. two-tier bunk beds were brought in only in late april 2014. from 5 may to 27 november 2014 he was in cell 309 measuring seventeen square metres. initially it had accommodated twelve persons but their number rose to seventeen in november when they started renovating the cells on the seventh and eighth floors of the facility. detainees had to remain within the floor on which their cell was located; they could not go outside or to other floors. the facility did not have a library, board games, radio or workshop, or offer any other meaningful activities.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in biržai. ’s body, they would have been noted in the medical report. on 15 april 2008, the incident scene was inspected, photographs were taken, one of them showing a white sheet on the bunk bed, and police officers who worked at biržai police station had been questioned. ’s forehead and nose, the expert observed that this could have resulted from scratching of acne and concluded that it was not related to m.p. the expert noted that there were no signs of strangulation by hands; he also indicated that it had been a one-time constriction on the neck. nevertheless, the prosecutor had failed to assess that internal-investigation report. having performed an additional examination of the bed sheet in the light of all available evidence, such as the witnesses’ statements, the photographs from the scene and expert reports, by a decision of 6 september 2010 the prosecutor again discontinued the pre-trial investigation into the circumstances of m.p. lastly, the specific instrument which had been used as a noose around m.p. on 13 january 2012 the prosecutor again discontinued the pre-trial investigation into the circumstances of m.p. had been a suicide risk, so as to confer liability on the officer. the applicant was present at the court hearing. the experts also explained that the death of m.p. firstly, after the last re-opening of the pre-trial investigation an examination of the video recordings was performed by a forensic expert, who had disproved the applicant’s allegation that the video recordings from biržai police station had been tampered with (see paragraph 42 above). although the applicant had expressed doubts in respect of the evidence gathered, in her appeal she had not presented any new arguments regarding what particular pre-trial investigation actions had not been performed, what data had not been evaluated, or what investigative actions, had they been performed, would have clarified any important circumstances in this case. ’s death, the police also conducted an internal investigation.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant was born in dushanbe, tajikistan, in 1971 and came to russia in 1993. he graduated from a vocational training college in the arkhangelsk region. he was informed of this decision on 27 august 2014. a few days later the building was damaged by fire. on 7 october the applicant was transferred to the krasnoye selo facility in the leningrad region (сувсиг уфмс по спб и ло). subsequently, a bailiff asked the district court in st petersburg to discontinue the enforcement proceedings because the applicant could not be issued with travel documents or removed from russia. on 4 june 2015 the district court rejected the application. referring to the case-law of the russian constitutional court prohibiting indefinite detention of individuals (judgment no. it found that enforcement was no longer feasible because the applicant was not a national of tajikistan and that he had already spent a long time in the detention centre. the district court discontinued the execution of the removal and detention order and ordered the applicant’s release. the applicant shared the cell with three other detainees. each detainee had his own bed and bed linen. a squat toilet and a sink were placed inside the cell and separated with a one-metre-high wall. detainees were allowed to spend up to fifteen minutes outside per week, in the courtyard of the facility.
the applicants are former employees and heirs of former employees of company f. - c.m.e. the company experienced a series of financial problems in 1985, leading to it being unable to continue paying salaries to its staff. having learnt that a site division and urban development plan (plano de pormenor) encompassing the land of company f. had been drawn up by the municipality of aveiro, former employees of the company, including some of the applicants, applied to the aveiro court on 12 december 1997, requesting that it wait for the plan to be approved before ordering the sale of company f.’s assets. on 19 february 2001 the applicant rosa rodrigues casal (applicant no. on 6 december 2001 the supreme court of justice delivered a judgment confirming the classification of claims by the coimbra court of appeal (see paragraphs 9 and 11 above). in a decision of 29 january 2003 the court appointed a new liquidator. on an unspecified date a part of the land measuring 17,629.10 sq. m and a separate plot were put up for sale. on 14 july 2011 a session at which offers to purchase could be made took place, and no offers were received. in the absence of any reply to the two previous requests, on 17 april 2012 the court ordered the judicial liquidator to provide information on the state of the proceedings, and also ordered that he would be fined if he did not provide such a reply. on 29 may 2012 the judicial liquidator informed the court that he had contacted some real-estate companies, but he requested ten more days in order to finalise the task. on 4 june 2012 he was informed that his request had been granted. according to the latest information received by the court on 21 may 2018, the insolvency proceedings were, on that date, still ongoing. the just satisfaction was paid to the applicants on 11 and 12 december 2000. 34422/97, and decided to close the examination of its enforcement.
the applicant was born in 1935 and lives in the town of snizhne, donetsk region. on 14 january 2004 the applicant’s son, born in 1967, was found dead in the applicant’s barn. on the same day police officers inspected the scene and reported that the man had committed suicide by hanging. on 24 january 2004 the investigator of the snizhne prosecutor’s office, following the pre-investigation inquiries, refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established in relation to the death of the applicant’s son. numerous investigating instructions were given. in the course of further pre-investigation inquiries, between 2005 and 2012, the investigators took measures to establish the circumstances of the applicant’s son’s death. they questioned various persons, and ordered numerous additional medical examinations of the corpse of the deceased. the applicant argued that it had not been suicide but a violent murder. on 25 april 2005, 26 march 2006, 20 august 2008, 17 february and 12 december 2011, 15 february 2012 and 17 september 2012, following the pre-investigation inquiries, the investigators refused to initiate criminal proceedings on the grounds that no elements of a crime had been established. on 7 december 2012 the applicant, relying on the new code of criminal procedure of 2012, requested that an investigation be opened in respect of the alleged murder of her son. on the same day criminal proceedings were instituted. on 24 december 2012, 22 july and 30 september 2013 the criminal proceedings were terminated because no elements of a crime could be established. those decisions were quashed by the supervising authorities as unsubstantiated and further investigations were ordered. the court noted the theory of the possible involvement of the local police had not been properly examined, the role of the applicant’s son’s brother-in-law had not been clarified even though he might have been the first to find the dead body, the applicant had not been questioned on all the issues which were relevant to the case, and the evidence relating to the applicant’s son’s suicidal tendencies had not been assessed. on 1 april 2014 the criminal proceedings were closed one more time on the ground that no elements of a crime could be established.
the applicant was born in 1925 and at the time of the introduction of the application lived in dublin. she remained in close contact with him until 1985. x. explained that during the eviction proceedings the applicant had promised her a sum of money to leave the premises peacefully, she accepted the deal but he never paid up. y. stated that she later gave birth to a child she had with him (x.) and thereafter their relationship had deteriorated, to the extent that he had also wanted her to prostitute herself. she finally plucked up courage, left him, and returned to malta with x. 13. in his submissions before the constitutional jurisdictions the applicant claimed that none of the aims mentioned in sub‑paragraph two of article 8 applied in his case, and the law in force did not allow for a fair balance of the competing interests at play. he requested the court to balance x.’s right (if any) to know who was her father, and his right to respect for his private and family life. furthermore, the age of x. was irrelevant to her quest to discover her genetic parent. in that light the applicant could not claim that his family life would now be in havoc. on 10 november 2014 the applicant appealed. she also wanted to establish a claim over the applicant’s property after his death, according to law. thus, her impelling interest in determining paternity was clear. it appointed an expert to conduct such an examination and requested her to submit a report by 28 january 2016. however, no such written testimony was submitted. from the minutes of the hearing of 6 april 2017, it appears that the expert could not attend that hearing, so the court authorised her to submit the report, and confirm it on oath, at the court’s registry; the court also solicited the applicant’s details.
the applicant, who belongs to the german-speaking minority in belgium, was born in 1957. an expert psychiatric report drawn up by dr ri. on 9 june 2006 the cds examined the application. in accordance with an order by the chairperson of the cds of 24 september 2006, the applicant was transferred to verviers prison so that its german-language psychosocial team could assess his mental health and ascertain whether he posed a danger to the public. no satisfactory follow-up has been given to the requests by the [social protection] board for an end to be put to this unlawful situation for mr rooman, who is deprived of his freedom in order, on the one hand, to protect society from possible dangerous conduct by him, and on the other, to provide him with the treatment necessary for his reinsertion; ...in the light of the authorities’ failure, the question now before the board is whether there exists, outside the social-protection facility, a unit or persons who could provide home-based therapy for mr rooman; ...” 26. it also found that the mere fact that the applicant spoke only german did not mean that the authorities had not taken all the necessary steps to provide him with the treatment required by his condition. on 13 november 2013 the applicant again applied for discharge. it held, inter alia, as follows:“contrary to what he alleges in his pleadings, the detainee receives all the treatment required by his condition from competent and qualified staff in the paifve eds, and his specific medical needs are fully taken into account. by an interlocutory order of 4 july 2014, the president of the court asked the director of the paifve eds and dr b. from that eds’s psychosocial unit to inform him, firstly, about the treatment available in that eds and, secondly, about the treatment that had in fact been provided to the applicant. in their respective replies, dated 28 august 2014, the director of the paifve eds and dr b. indicated that the applicant now had access to consultations with a german-speaking psychologist and that the authorities had made contact with a german-speaking psychiatrist who had agreed to meet the applicant. in addition, it has produced no evidence of the slightest step taken by it to that end. this failure to act amounts to negligence within the meaning of article 1382 of the civil code. with regard to psychiatric treatment, the document submitted by the government indicates that the applicant was treated by various french‑speaking psychiatrists. on 20 may 2015 the applicant met with dr v., a german-speaking psychiatrist. since november 2017, the german-speaking welfare assistant had returned to her post in the paifve eds and continued to meet the applicant several times a month.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in ceira (portugal). the medical files show that his degree of dependence on medical assistance (grau de dependência) varied during these stays between being a patient in need of partial assistance and a patient requiring intensive or full assistance. went to lisbon to try to renew his driving licence for heavy vehicles. who had been his psychiatric doctor since december 1999. he was prescribed medication in case of emergency, and it appears from his clinical records that he was given emergency medication at around 2 a.m. on 26 april 2000 at the hsc. according to the oral statement of one nurse and the clinical record, he had eaten well, including his afternoon snack at around 4.45 p.m. 23. she maintained that on account of all those circumstances, the monitoring measures should have been enhanced in order to prevent him from leaving. taking into account the clinical documents, his clinical condition may have led to another attempt to commit suicide, which turned out to be fatal. the applicant and the psychiatrist who had issued the above medical opinion gave evidence at the hearing. she confirmed that voluntary inpatients could have their freedom of movement restricted if it was thought necessary. who had been the emergency doctor on call on 27 april 2000, explained that had the nurses in the pavilion seen a problem with a.j. regarding the episode on 25 april 2000, the court decided to view it simply as an abuse of alcohol, taking into account his underlying chronic alcoholism and the fact that the drinking had taken place in the afternoon and mainly at a café. on 25 april 2011 the coimbra administrative court delivered a judgment in which it ruled against the applicant. as to the foreseeability of the suicide, the administrative supreme court held that the hsc had not breached any duty of care, as there had been no indication which could have led the hospital staff to suspect that the applicant’s son would try to commit suicide that day, namely by leaving the hospital grounds. inpatients under a restrictive hospitalisation regime were monitored more closely by the nursing team.
the applicant company is a private company that was set up in 2007 and has its registered office in yerevan. on 21 january 2008 the civil court admitted the applicant company’s claim. on 15 may 2008 the civil court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and again stayed the proceedings. on 4 march 2009 company s. appealed against the judgment of 19 february 2009. on 26 august 2009 the district court ordered a forensic technical examination of the construction work on the premises of company h., and stayed the proceedings. on 31 may 2010 the expert concluded that, owing to the lack of opportunity to access the premises of company h., it had not been possible to carry out the forensic examination ordered by the district court on 26 august 2009. the court ordered that the forensic examination be carried out with the help of the department for the enforcement of judicial acts (“the deja”). it is unclear what the outcome of that order was. on 27 june 2012 the district court resumed the proceedings. on 27 december 2014 the bureau responded by stating that the examination which had been ordered had not been carried out due to the lack of an expert in the relevant field. on 5 may 2015 the applicant company submitted a letter to the ministry of justice, complaining about the delay in the civil proceedings and requesting that it take measures to expedite them. on 20 may 2015 the minister of justice responded by stating that even though it would take one day to carry out the expert examination and approximately five days to complete the report, the examination had not been carried out for reasons such as the lack of an expert in the bureau, the expert’s inability to access the premises of company h., the excessive workload in the bureau, and so on. the minister concluded by stating that the examination could be carried out by the bureau, provided that the expert was granted access to the premises concerned. on 10 october 2016 the district court granted the applicant company’s claim in part. on 23 march 2017 the civil court of appeal rejected the appeal and upheld the contested judgment.
the facts of the cases, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. in the early morning of 27 december 2001 a group of approximately twenty federal servicemen who had arrived in two armoured personnel carriers (“apcs”) and uaz vehicles surrounded the house where the applicant lived with her son (mr alvi bugayev), his wife (ms z.s.), on 13 january 2002 the investigators questioned ms r.ya. on 21 december 2006 the applicant wrote to the urus-martan prosecutor requesting that the investigation be resumed and that she be granted victim status. on 6 august 2007 the applicant requested that the investigators provide her with a copy of the decisions to open the criminal case and to grant her victim status and with the latest decision to suspend the investigation. on 7 january 2002 they ordered an expert examination of the bullet taken out of the body of mr yunusov and on 18 january 2002 the forensics bureau of the chechen ministry of the interior reported that it had been fired from a kalashnikov machinegun. on 1 march 2002 the investigators ordered a ballistic examination of the bullet taken from mr yunusov’s body and of the handguns and machineguns of eleven police officers and ten servicemen from the military commander’s office implicated in the shooting. on 21 february 2008 the investigation was suspended again. the applicants were not informed thereof. he also stated that the persons who had participated in the attack on the car had been mr vakha (also known as bekhan) t. and mr adlan g.; he knew this because the first applicant had recognised them when they had stopped her from approaching the culprits in the uaz vehicles, as mr vakha t. had removed his balaclava when talking to her. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed thereof. on 26 march 2007 the deputy staropromyslovskiy district prosecutor again overruled the suspension as premature and unlawful and ordered that the investigation be resumed in order for the previously ordered steps to be taken. the applicants were informed of that decision on 30 march 2007. on 19 november 2008, following the district prosecutor’s criticism, the investigation was resumed in order for the requested steps to be taken. on 13 march 2009 the investigators again suspended the criminal investigation.
the applicants are five russian nationals. their personal details are set out in the appendix. since 1981 the applicants have lived in a flat in an apartment block provided to them under a social tenancy agreement by the ministry of defence of the russian federation. the landlord was under obligation to perform a major overhaul of the apartment block, and the applicants had to make regular payments for the major overhaul. the overhaul had never been performed, allegedly since 1935. on the dates listed in the appendix the orenburgskiy district court of the orenburg region granted their claims, having noted from expert reports that the apartment block was “64%‒dilapidated” and its state was “unsatisfactory”, and that the flat was 64%‒dilapidated. according to the applicants’ observations, on 9 november 2011 the orenburgskiy district court awarded the claimants rub 490,155.43 (approximately 11.681 euros) of compensation of losses. they did not enclose a copy of the judgment or further details as to either the defendant, or the exact list of claimants, the scope of the judgment or its subsequent challenge on appeal by any of the parties. in 2012 federal state treasury department (управление) of the privolzhsko-uralskiy military circuit became a legal successor of the debtor institution. in 2012 the applicants sued various authorities for penalties for several years of the non-enforcement. by the final judgment of 5 february 2013 the orenburg regional court rejected their claims in full, having found that they were based on an incorrect interpretation of the domestic law and that the applicants had failed to submit a calculation of the penalty. according to the government, in december 2013 the applicant’s house was included in a regional housing overhaul assistance program. the authorities prepared a project and the budget documentation, which were approved by the experts. on 13 april 2015 ms konstantinova privatized the flat and acquired a title to it. according to the government’s latest observations of 31 may 2017, the judgments had remained unenforced at the material time.
the first applicant was born in 1964 and lives in qormi. the second applicant is a limited liability company incorporated in 1996 and registered in marsa, malta. the second applicant is owned by the first applicant. on 27 july 2011, the court of magistrates as a court of criminal judicature found m. (the first applicant’s son, who lives under the same roof as the first applicant) guilty of involuntary grievous bodily harm of two minors, and of driving a peugeot van with registration number hbd096 (hereinafter referred to as “the peugeot”) without a licence. the authorities eventually took physical possession of the peugeot. the court of criminal appeal rejected this request. on 26 march 2014 the court of criminal appeal rejected the ag’s appeal in toto. on 27 march 2014 the toyota was returned to the first applicant. 1, the court held that the confiscation of the peugeot had been ordered by a final judgment of the court of criminal appeal in the first set of criminal proceedings and therefore there could be no doubt that the confiscation was in compliance with the law (article 3 of the ordinance). regarding the claim for damages, the court concluded that the applicants must demand them from m., since m. was the one who had violated the law leading to the institution of the criminal proceedings with the ensuing consequences. on 7 november 2013 the applicants filed an appeal before the constitutional court. furthermore, there existed no adequate or effective remedy to prevent the confiscation of the peugeot, and third parties were not protected by any procedural safeguards. furthermore, as a result of the decision of the court of criminal appeal in the second set of criminal proceedings, the constitutional court concluded that the seizure of that vehicle had been unnecessary and could not be justified as having been done in the interests of justice since no third party had suffered any damage. therefore a violation of article 1 of protocol no. thus, the claim of a lack of access to court had been unfounded.
the first applicant (mr ryklin) was born in 1958. the second applicant (mr sharov) was born in 1956. both applicants are human rights activists and pro-democracy campaigners. on 21 april 2015 the applicants, with three others, sent written notification to the moscow mayor’s office of their intention to hold a demonstration with some 15,000 participants from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on 6 may 2015 in bolotnaya square. on 30 april 2015 the department repeated this proposal in a letter. the event organisers were also warned that if they rejected this proposal they would not be allowed to hold a public event at all. a few minutes later the applicants were arrested and taken to a police van. according to the government, on 6 may 2015 the applicants, acting in a group of fifty people, organised and held a public assembly without prior notification being given to the authorities. the second applicant was brought to the police station at 7.25 p.m. and placed under administrative arrest at 7.40 p.m. the records of the transfer contained an indication that both applicants were taken to the police station for an administrative offence record to be drawn up. the second applicant was taken to that same court on 7 may 2015 at 4.10 p.m. 13. in particular, they called upon others to shout political slogans; the second applicant had a banner. the court found that the first applicant, with the second applicant, had organised and held a group public event in the form of a “meeting” with about fifty participants, without notifying the authorities in advance. it dismissed the applicant’s argument that he had staged a solo demonstration, after considering it as a line of defence. on the same day the zamoskvoretskiy district court heard the case against the second applicant. on 13 may 2015 the moscow city court upheld the judgments.
the applicant was born in 1971 and lives in rostov-on-don, russia. on 1 september 2012 festive events were taking place at school no. see for yourself: on 10 march 2012 i held a demonstration and was handled by the police. i was then sentenced to two days in detention by a justice of the peace, on a fabricated charge of hooliganism. the school staff called police officer o., who was present at the school premises owing to enhanced security measures taken on that day. according to the applicant, within thirty minutes two additional police officers, t. and m., had arrived. he complied with their order to show his identity documents. at some point, while the police officers were carrying out an identity check through the police database, he decided to leave. he had not reacted to their multiple requests to calm down and to cease this behaviour, had refused to present his identity documents and had tried to escape. the applicant stayed on sick leave in connection with these injuries from 1 until 24 september 2012. 1 of rostov-on-don informed the applicant in a letter that the administrative proceedings against him had been discontinued as his actions lacked the constituent elements of the crime. by a judgment of 5 april 2013 the voroshilovskiy district court of rostov-on-don dismissed his claims. on the basis of several testimonies, the district court concluded as follows:“in the present case the police officers intended to put an end to the breach of public order, consisting of [showing] disrespect to society accompanied by the use of foul language in a public place [by the applicant], disturbing citizens in an insulting manner and refusing to obey an order by a public official ... the police officers ... acted within their powers and did not violate the applicant’s rights. the applicant appealed against the judgment. on 17 june 2013 the rostov regional court dismissed the appeal, endorsing the reasoning of the first-instance judgment.
the first applicant (mr grigoryev) was born in 1984 and lives in svetlogorsk. the second applicant (ms igamberdiyeva) was born in 1989 and lives in kaliningrad. the authorities replied that preparations for the new year celebrations were planned on that day; they did not suggest an alternative venue. the second applicant did not challenge the authority’s reply before the domestic courts. according to the applicants, on 12 december 2010 the first applicant staged a solo demonstration holding a banner saying “freedom for khodorkovskiy and lebedev! she completed her demonstration in five minutes. then the first applicant returned to the venue with his banner and remained there for about two minutes, until police officers took him to a police van. he was then taken to a police station and held there for over three hours. on 14 december 2012 the second applicant was called to the leninskiy district police station, where she was accused of a similar offence, although it was classified under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao. the cases against the applicants were submitted to a justice of the peace of court circuit no. 2 of the leninskiy district of kaliningrad. the court ordered the police to submit a video recording showing the events of 12 december 2010. on 25 july 2011 the same court also granted the claims by the second applicant, having found that preventing her from staging a solo demonstration and consequently prosecuting her had been unlawful. the first applicant appealed against the judgment of 15 july 2011, complaining, inter alia, about the amount of the compensation and the first‑instance court’s failure to make specific findings in relation to the violation of his freedom of expression on account of the police intervention in his solo demonstration. on 21 september 2011 the kaliningrad regional court upheld the judgment of 25 july 2011.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in orhei. in september 2009 the applicant initiated civil proceedings against a company which was in process of insolvency. on 18 december 2009 the drochia district court found in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant company to pay him 24,957 moldovan lei (mdl) (the equivalent of 1,413 euros (eur)) for pecuniary damage and mdl 749 (the equivalent of eur 42) for costs and expenses. the representative of the defendant company was not present at the hearing. on 28 december 2009 the secretariat of the drochia district court sent a copy of the reasoned judgment to the defendant company by ordinary mail. on 11 january 2010 an enforcement writ was issued to the applicant by the same court in respect of the judgment of 18 december 2009. on 10 february 2010, in a different set of proceedings concerning the insolvency of the defendant company, the company’s insolvency administrator updated the list of creditors by making express reference to the judgment of 18 december 2009 and to the exact amounts awarded in that judgment. the court which treated the insolvency issued a decision concerning the updated list of creditors on the same date. the applicant objected to the appeal by arguing that it had been time-barred. he indicated that the time-limit for lodging the appeal had expired twenty days after the serving of the impugned judgment and that the insolvency administrator of the defendant company had been aware of the judgment of 18 december 2009 since in february 2010 he had informed the court dealing with the insolvency proceedings about the judgment in question. on 28 september 2010 the bălţi court of appeal admitted the appeal lodged by the insolvency administrator of the defendant company and quashed the judgment of 18 december 2009. the court of appeal did respond to the objection raised by the applicant and, after re-examining the merits of the case, dismissed the applicant’s action against the defendant company. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law raising the same arguments as in his appeal. on 26 january 2011 the supreme court of justice dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law and upheld the judgment of the lower court. the supreme court did not make any comment about the applicant’s objection concerning the late appeal.
the first applicant (ms muchnik) was born in 1968 and lives in tomsk. the second applicant (mr mordovin) was born in 1956 and lives in seversk, in the tomsk region. these “pickets” were held without prior notification being given to local authorities. it was stated, in particular, that f. had initiated a number of public assemblies in support of tv-2 from 4 january 2015 onwards, by posting calls for support via social networks. the first applicant had picked up those involved in the solo demonstrations and transported them to the event venues; she had also handed out leaflets to them for distribution. the administrative case file also contained several reports by police officers who had been present on 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 13 january 2015 at the location where the solo demonstrations had taken place. however, the judge gave the applicant an hour to study the file, and when her lawyer appeared some time later he requested only fifteen minutes to study the file. the judge’s assistant later reported that the applicant had not studied the file for the hour which she had been given; instead, she had talked on the phone and chatted with the other people present in the courtroom. the first applicant appealed against the judgment to the tomsk regional court. the applicant was not hindered in any way and completed his demonstration. according to the national authorities and according to the government’s submissions before the court, on 6 august 2014 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. the second applicant, acting together with (seven) other persons, organised and held a public event in the form of “picket” near big city, a shopping centre in tomsk. using visual aids, the applicant and other protestors expressed their opinion about the participants in the events of 6 may 2012 in bolotnaya square in moscow, without giving prior notification to the authorities. the applicant, who had not been deprived of his liberty, attended the trial and pleaded not guilty. the applicant was not represented by a lawyer at the trial. in particular, the court noted that the videos showed the applicant and other participants in the event gathering at the venue; it also showed that during the event they had been standing less than 30 metres from each other and talking.
the first applicant (ms belan) was born in 1961. the first applicant intended to take part in the public event. the applicant remained there from 2.30 to 6 p.m. she was then allowed to leave. the administrative-offence records indicated that the first applicant had held a public event at 3.45 p.m. and the second applicant at 3.10 p.m., and that both offences had been committed near the lenin monument at the entrance to gorkiy park. the applicant attended and was assisted by a representative, though it is unclear whether that person was a lawyer. on 25 september 2012 the trial court held a hearing and heard various witnesses. at a hearing on 7 november 2012 a. stated that after receiving information from sh., 4 (see paragraph 28 below), he had arrived at gorkiy park where he had seen a group of people, including z., in possession of banners, without having given any prior notification of their public event, and that he also remembered arresting ms belan, though he could not remember her face. the trial court also granted a request by the defence for the forensic bureau to provide the photographs taken on 15 september 2012. it appears that the appellate court heard further evidence from the witness o., who stated that around 3 p.m. on 15 september 2012 she had approached the lenin monument with the intention of expressing her views on the situation in the country; she had seen the applicant standing alone with a banner close to the monument. on 3 december 2012 the district court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. in any event, earlier other people were convicted of the same offence at the same time and place. on 4 december 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the rostov regional prosecutor’s office, seeking the institution of criminal proceedings against the police officers under articles 149 and 286 of the criminal code (unlawful impediment to a public assembly and abuse of powers). on 6 december 2012 the leninskiy district court of rostov-on-don examined her appeal and upheld the earlier judgment. by a decision of 26 december 2012 the justice of the peace allowed the applicant to pay the administrative fine in three monthly instalments (two instalments of rub 7,000 and one of rub 6,000).
the applicant was born in 1971 and, at the time of his latest communication with the court, was detained in kirovograd. the first purchase was video-recorded, apparently with a hidden camera (see paragraph 15 below). on 9 march 2007 the applicant was arrested. at the opening of his subsequent trial the applicant admitted that at the time of his arrest he had had a drug-filled syringe in his sleeve and, in trying to get rid of the drug, had ejected the liquid over his sweater and had thrown it on the ground near him. on 15 march 2007 the applicant’s lawyer requested the investigator to order a medical examination for the applicant. abrasions on his legs could have been caused by a fall. however, the applicant stated that he wished to remain silent. the applicant’s lawyer asked to watch the tape. the applicant submitted to the investigating authority that a certain b. had been with the applicant on the day of his arrest and could confirm that he had bought drugs for his own consumption. the applicant asked for b. to be found and examined as a witness. he described how he had purchased drugs from the applicant on three occasions as part of a test purchase operation. the bill of indictment against the applicant, sent to the kirovograd kirov district court as the trial court, identified p. as one of the witnesses to be summoned in the course of the trial. it appears that during the trial the applicant asked the trial court to disclose to the defence the video recording of the first test purchase and to call and examine p. (the undercover agent), b. (see paragraph 16 above), and the forensic expert who had compiled a report stating that the applicant’s clothes and a syringe found on him on the day of the arrest contained traces of an illegal drug. on 26 june 2007 the trial court found the applicant guilty of drug trafficking and sentenced him to eight years’ imprisonment. on 4 september 2008 a judge of the supreme court found that the applicant’s appeal was unsubstantiated, and refused to order a cassation review of the case.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicant lives in shnogh village and earns his living from agriculture. he owned a plot of arable land in the village measuring 0.186 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family, feeding the livestock and beekeeping. the amount of compensation offered was 134,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 290 euros (eur)), plus an additional 15% as required by law. the applicant did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that the applicant tried to obtain an alternative evaluation of his property by other companies but did not succeed. he claims that no other evaluation company was willing to make an independent evaluation of the market value of his land. in the course of the proceedings, teghout cjsc submitted another evaluation report of the applicant’s property stating that, after the institution of the proceedings, oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the applicant’s plot of land was estimated at amd 137,000 (approximately eur 298). on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant a total of amd 157,550 in compensation. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, he complained that the regional court had deprived him of his property. on 19 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property based on the corrected evaluation report prepared by oliver group cjsc. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law raising similar arguments to those submitted in the previous appeal.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicants, a family of five, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. they jointly owned a plot of arable land in the village measuring 1.622 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family and feeding their livestock. the applicants did not reply to the letter, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation offered. on 12 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicants, seeking to oblige them to sign an agreement for their property to be taken for state needs. according to the report, the market value of the applicants’ plot of land was estimated at amd 818,000 (approximately eur 1,780). he requested additional time to be able to submit an alternative valuation report. it appears that the applicants were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. the applicants lodged an appeal complaining, inter alia, that the market value of their land had been seriously underestimated and that the amount of compensation offered to them was inadequate. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. they submitted that they had disagreed with the valuation report submitted by the other party to the proceedings, which was moreover not an expert opinion and therefore could not be admitted as evidence. on 24 june 2009 the court of cassation declared the applicants’ cassation appeal inadmissible for lack of merit.
the applicants were born in 1933, 1940 and 1975 respectively and live in teghout village. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicants, a family of three, live in teghout village and earn their living from agriculture. the land was used for growing crops for the family, gardening and feeding their livestock. it appears that they were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. on 12 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicants, seeking to oblige them to sign an agreement on the taking of their property for state needs. according to the government, the applicants were duly notified of the date of the proceedings, but they did not appear. in the course of the proceedings teghout cjsc submitted another valuation report on the applicants’ property, stating that oliver group llc had prepared a corrected report according to which the market value of the land was amd 262,000 (approximately eur 570). the final amount of compensation with the additional 15% would thus be equal to amd 301,300 (approximately eur 655). on 6 october 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants a total of amd 301,300 (approximately eur 655) in compensation. on 27 february 2009 the case was set for trial in lori regional court. on 29 april 2009 the lori regional court held a court hearing. the next hearing was scheduled for 20 may 2009, a notification to that effect was sent both to the applicants’ representative and the applicants. on 24 july 2009 the civil court of appeal hearing was held; the applicants and their representative were not present. additionally, he requested to have the missed time-limits for lodging an appeal on points of law restored, explaining that the reason for late submission was the failure of the court of appeal to serve on him a copy of the decision of 7 august 2009, despite the fact that he was the applicants’ authorised representative in the proceedings.
the applicant was born in 1986 and lives in cork. on 5 august 2003, the high court issued a limited order of discovery addressed to the local health authority seeking all relevant records about the applicant in its possession, as well as information about the vaccine used, about any adverse effects noted at the time with this vaccine, about the manner in which the mother’s consent was obtained, and about the health of the other members of the applicant’s family. the applicant’s mother died in december 2007. in june 2008 the applicant’s lawyer wrote to the local health authority to complain that the long delays in litigating the case had caused grave prejudice to the case. the applicant’s mother had been a vital witness, and with her death essential evidence had been lost. settlement of the substantive dispute was proposed but not agreed. the high court refused this application on 12 march 2010. on the eleventh day of the trial, 19 july 2011, the judge accepted an application by the defendants to strike the case out for failure to establish a prima facie case against them. the claim against the doctor h was dismissed. the applicant filed a notice of appeal presenting 30 grounds of appeal. outline written submissions were submitted by h in february 2015 and by the state defendants in september 2015. the court of appeal gave its judgment on 10 february 2016, dismissing the appeal. in its conclusions, the court of appeal stated that, by taking the case at its highest, the trial judge had adopted the correct approach on the question of striking the case out. it found no basis for overturning the decision of the high court. the proceedings ended on 10 may 2016 when the supreme court declined the applicant’s request for leave to appeal.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in baku. on 7 july 2010 he was drafted into the army for his compulsory military service. underwent a medical examination in narimanov district polyclinic no. during these examinations, no heart disease or any other disease was revealed which might prevent him from performing his military service. out of the military barracks and tried to give him artificial respiration. did not respond, he was immediately taken to the shaki central hospital, where he was pronounced dead. on 14 july 2010 a record of an inspection of the scene of the incident (hadisə yerinə baxış protokolu) was drawn up and signed by an investigator at the zagatala military prosecutor’s office. according to the record, no object relevant to the investigation was identified. it appears from the record that various injuries were found on u.m. blood and cell samples were taken from the body and sent for biological and histological forensic examinations. eighteen photographs of the body were taken during the inspection and were added to the record. however, there was no mention of such injuries in the record of 14 july 2010. ’s previous health problems and his death. the applicant further disputed the investigator’s explanation as regards the origin of the injuries found on u.m. in that connection, he submitted that, although the experts concluded that the injuries were likely to have been inflicted one to three days before the death, the investigator held that the injuries could have been sustained when the soldiers tried to resuscitate u.m.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicant lives in shnogh village and earns his living from agriculture and bakery production. he owned eight plots of agricultural land in the village measuring 0.420 ha, 0.890 ha, 0.904 ha, 1.206 ha, 0.780 ha, 0.900, 0.974 and 0.354 ha. the land was used for growing crops for the family, gardening, beekeeping and feeding their livestock. the applicant did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that he tried to obtain an alternative valuation of his property by other companies but did not succeed. he claims that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of his land. according to the reports, the market value of the applicant’s plots of land was estimated at 3,439,650 (approximately eur 7,478) in total. he also claimed that the deprivation of his property was not in the public interest since it was aimed at securing high profits for several individuals. the representative of teghout cjsc asked the court to take into account the relatively higher amounts of the initial valuations in respect of those plots of land that were valued lower as a result of the new valuation. on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicant amd 223,100 (approximately eur 485), amd 524,400 (approximately eur 1,140), amd 502,550 (approximately eur 1,093), amd 638,250 (approximately eur 1,388), amd 394,450 (approximately eur 858), amd 489,900 (approximately eur 1,065), amd 491,050 (approximately eur 1,068). relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, he complained that the regional court had deprived him of his property. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, raising similar arguments to those submitted in the previous appeal.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. according to the decree, armenian copper programme cjsc or teghout cjsc, founded by the former for the purpose of the implementation of the teghout copper-molybdenum deposit exploitation project, were to acquire the units of land listed in its annexes. the applicants, a family of five, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. they jointly owned two plots of arable land in the village. the land was used for growing crops for the family and feeding their livestock. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they tried to obtain an alternative valuation of their property by another company but did not succeed. they claim that no other valuation company was willing to make an independent assessment of the market value of their land. on 14 may 2008 teghout cjsc lodged a claim against the applicants, seeking to oblige them to sign an agreement on the taking of their property for state needs. the final amount of compensation, including the additional 15% required by law, would thus be equal to amd 198,950 (approximately eur 433) for the first plot of land and amd 1,133,900 (approximately eur 2,465) for the second. on 7 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of a total of amd 198,950 for the first plot of land and amd 1,133,900 for the second plot. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, they complained that the regional court had deprived them of their property. on 25 march 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment, finding that the latter had properly determined the market value of the property on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.
the applicants were born in 1939 and 1976 respectively and live in shnogh village. in 2001 a private company, armenian copper programme cjsc, was granted a mining licence for the exploitation of the teghout copper‑molybdenum deposit for a period of twenty-five years. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. the applicants, father and son, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture. the land was used for growing crops for the family, gardening and feeding their livestock. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their six plots of land for 19,000 armenian drams (amd, approximately 41 euros (eur)), amd 213,000 (approximately eur 463), amd 26,000 (approximately eur 57), amd 87,000 (approximately eur 190), amd 73,000 (approximately eur 160), and amd 339,000 (approximately eur 737) respectively plus an additional 15% on each amount offered as required by law, making the final offer amd 870,550 (approximately eur 1,893) in total. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they were unable to obtain a valuation of their property by another company. on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding h. and the applicants a total of amd 1,193,700 (approximately eur 2,595) in compensation. they further argued that the regional court, although aware that h. had died in 2007, had delivered a judgment that concerned her rights. on 3 april 2009 the civil court of appeal quashed the regional court’s judgment and remitted the case for a fresh examination. on 7 october 2009 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim finding, inter alia, that the valuation reports prepared by oliver group llc should be considered lawful and acceptable evidence to determine the market value of the applicants’ property to be taken for state needs. the applicants lodged an appeal, claiming, inter alia, that the market value of their land had been seriously underestimated and that the amount of compensation offered to them was not adequate. the applicants lodged an appeal on points of law. they raised similar complaints to those raised before the court of appeal.
the applicant company has its seat in rovaniemi. between 14 november and 18 december 2006 the market court held an oral hearing in the course of which forty-eight witnesses were heard. with regard to the allegation of territorial allocation and price-fixing in the markets for local government and private sector asphalt contracts, the market court found that the applicant company had not participated in a cartel. according to the court, the infringements of competition law rules had lasted for more than seven years. in addition, geographically, the infringements covered the entire country in respect of central government asphalt contracts, and several regions of the country in respect of local government and private sector contracts. concerning the evidence, the market court noted that evidence in competition law cases could be either direct or indirect, such as economic evidence. in its appeal, the competition authority contested the interpretation adopted by the market court as regards the scope of the cartel, arguing that there was nothing to suggest that the territorial allocation of markets did not encompass contracts in all the above mentioned categories of works and pointing out that the exclusion of supplies of asphalt mass outside the cartel companies affected competition in the entire sector. it further cited case-law of the court of justice of the european union according to which it is incumbent on the commission as competition authority to prove the infringements of competition rules and to adduce evidence capable of demonstrating to the requisite legal standard the existence of the circumstances constituting an infringement, and where such evidence had been presented the court was entitled to consider that it was for the defendant to provide another explanation for the incriminating circumstances. furthermore, the witnesses reported consistently on how the cartel had supervised the geographical division of the markets. it had been established that the applicant company through its representatives had been an active operator in the cartel, taken initiatives for agreements regarding bidding for contracts, hampered the business of new and smaller companies in the market and exerted pressure on other companies to join the cartel. moreover, the court found that the applicant company had not been able to present any credible alternative explanations for its behaviour on the markets, or to refute the competition authority’s conclusions. on 28 november 2013 the helsinki district court (käräjäoikeus, tingsrätten) rejected the finnish state’s claims against all asphalt companies, including the applicant company. the finnish state appealed against the district court judgment. on 20 october 2016 the helsinki court of appeal accepted the claims of the finnish state against the asphalt companies in four cases out of seven. moreover, the court of appeal rejected the appeals of most of the municipalities.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in tekirdağ. the same page also included a pre-printed message which stated, inter alia, that the person being questioned had the right to remain silent and the right to choose a lawyer. every page of the statement form was signed by the applicant. however, the doctor concluded that there were no signs of ill-treatment on the applicant’s body. thus, the applicant remained silent and refused to make a statement. included a description of the suspected killer which bore no resemblance to the applicant. at a hearing held on 20 july 2005, the applicant’s lawyer stated that in accordance with article 148 § 4 of the new code of criminal procedure, in force as of 1 june 2005, statements taken by the police without a lawyer present should not be used unless confirmed by the individual before a judge or a court. the trial court did not respond to his application. at the same hearing, the applicant’s lawyer, while referring to his previous defence submissions, stated that the applicant’s police statement had no probative value in line with the provisions of the code of criminal procedure. the applicant’s lawyer did not attend that hearing. the applicant’s lawyer was present and reiterated his previous defence submissions. and granting that lawyer time to prepare defence submissions. ’s new lawyer applied for additional time to prepare defence submissions and was granted this by the trial court. the trial court listed, among other pieces of evidence, “the statements of the accused throughout the proceedings” in the “evidence” part of its judgment. on 27 april 2010 the court of cassation upheld the judgment of the first-instance court.
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in mankivka. the itt medical staff examined the applicant on the same day and noted that he had a bruise under his right eye. he said that he had not taken part in the applicant’s arrest or in any other investigative activities relating to him. in the course of the above inquiry, the investigating officer questioned officer ovs., on 27 september 2012, following an additional inquiry into the applicant’s complaints regarding ill-treatment, the prosecutor’s office refused to institute criminal proceedings against officer g. because there were no constituent elements of an offence. on 7 may 2013 the local court quashed the decision of 27 september 2012 (see paragraph 30 above) and remitted the case file for an additional inquiry. on 13 june 2008 the applicant was examined by a surgeon from the emergency hospital, who diagnosed a suture sinus (a type of wound complication) following the umbilical hernia operation. the surgeon noted that the applicant did not need urgent inpatient treatment, and the applicant was returned to the sizo on the same day. he was diagnosed with omphalitis (inflammation of the navel and the surrounding area) and a suture sinus following the umbilical hernia operation in 2007 (see paragraph 6 above). between 9 february and 10 april 2009 the applicant stayed in the sizo medical unit. it was recommended that he continue with the prescribed outpatient treatment. the ambulance team suggested that the applicant had peritonitis, and recommended that he be hospitalised urgently. on the same date the applicant was returned to the sizo. on 9 november and 16 november 2009, in reply to the requests of the applicant’s lawyers concerning his hospitalisation, the sizo administration advised that it was not competent to decide on the applicant’s placement in an outside medical facility, and suggested that the lawyers should address the requests to the court dealing with the applicant’s case. on 26 november 2009 an ambulance doctor examined the applicant in the sizo in connection with the constant pain in his abdomen, and found that he did not require urgent hospitalisation.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is currently serving a life sentence in ladyzhynska colony no. on 23 february 2006 the supreme court upheld that judgment with certain changes. 5) for the duration of the criminal proceedings against him. on 20 march 2007 a preliminary examination of the applicant was conducted, together with laboratory tests and an x-ray. he was put under medical supervision owing to the residual effects of his tuberculosis. in particular, he had been examined on a regular basis by the colony doctors between 20 march 2007 and 26 february 2018 and prescribed treatment. as a result of each course of treatment his health had improved. the government did not specify the frequency of the applicant’s regular examination and treatment during that time. according to the government, the applicant was supervised by the colony doctors and was prescribed with all necessary medicine and a special diet. the nature of that treatment was not specified. his requests were refused on 8 august and 6 september 2006 on the grounds that he had already been provided with a copy of that document in the course of the criminal proceedings against him and that there was no legal requirement to meet his requests. those requests were initially refused as not having a basis in law. according to the government, on 10 september 2009 the applicant lodged another application with the court of appeal in which he requested copies of court hearing records, the cassation appeal and other documents from his criminal proceedings case file. on 21 april 2011 the office of the government agent before the european court of human rights sent copies of the court hearing records to the applicant. the applicant has not been provided with a copy of the requested documents.
the applicant was born in 1952 and died in 2013. on 21 february 2002 p., a businessman, contacted the police complaining that the applicant, who was then the director of a municipal housing management agency, was demanding money from him in exchange for permission to use some premises managed by his agency. the police went in to arrest the applicant. the marked banknotes were discovered in one of the rooms adjoining his office. these investigative steps were video recorded. on the same day the applicant wrote and signed a statement confessing to having accepted the money from p. he subsequently retracted the confession, claiming that it had been extracted under “physical and psychological pressure” from the police. in the course of the pre-trial investigation a certain t.v.s., the attesting witnesses made formal statements to the investigating authority describing the events of 21 february 2002 which they had observed. they stated, in particular, that they had entered the applicant’s office after the police and, when they entered, two police officers were already holding the applicant. according to the government, p. testified in the course of the trial on two occasions in april 2004. on 5 october 2009 the kharkiv kominternivsky district court convicted the applicant of fraud and sentenced him to two years’ detention in a semi-open penal institution, but waived enforcement of the sentence as it had become time-barred (see paragraph 24 below). had not been examined in the course of the trial as they failed to appear at the trial (“которые уклонились от явки в суд первой инстанции”). there was no reason to distrust the statements of the victim and the witnesses which were corroborated by the other evidence in the file, including audio and video evidence. the attesting witnesses had stated that, when they entered the office, the police officers already held the applicant (see paragraph 14 above). there were no grounds to open review proceedings.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1971, 1947 and 1954 respectively, and live in budapest. 223591 into two plots measuring 1,519 sq. at the same time, the local authority also partitioned plot no. 223592 and requisitioned a part of that land with an area of 123 sq. m in exchange for compensation of huf 376,200 (approximately ecu 1,700). the decisions were served on the first applicant’s legal predecessor, the second applicant, the third applicant and the third applicant’s legal predecessor, among other persons. on 13 april 1998 some of the above-mentioned owners challenged the administrative decisions in court. on 30 november 2005 the budapest court of appeal overturned the first-instance judgment and ordered new administrative proceedings. on 7 february 2008 it adopted a decision identical to that of 19 january 1998 (see paragraph 7 above). on 2 july 2008 the decision was upheld on appeal by the public administration office of budapest, with an amendment that the compensation figures should be increased by accrued interest. on 27 august 2008 the first applicant challenged the new administrative decision in court. on 19 april 2016 the budapest administrative and labour court delivered its judgment. it dismissed the applicants’ action as far as the requisition’s lawfulness was concerned but quashed the administrative decision as regards the compensation amount. throughout the court proceedings, the land registry has retained a record of the dispute (perfeljegyzés). at the date of the latest information available to the court (2 october 2018), the proceedings concerning the amount of compensation due to the applicants were still pending before the domestic courts.
the applicant was born in 1944 and lives in ljubljana. for the relevant background to the case, see ribać v. slovenia (no. the applicant was a citizen of the republic of serbia in the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia (“the sfry”). he has had permanent resident status in slovenia since 1977, where he also married and had two children. on 29 november 1991 the office granted his request. on 25 october 1991 he left slovenia with the ypa and went to kraljevo. the applicant maintained that he had left with the ypa so he could fulfil the retirement conditions. on 21 december 1991 he returned to slovenia, but left again in january 1992, which he maintained was for the purpose of arranging documents for his retirement. on 27 december 1991 the applicant applied for slovenian citizenship under section 40 of the citizenship act (see paragraph 22 below). by a decision of 7 july 1992 the ministry of the interior refused his application, holding that the applicant had not lived in slovenia between 25 october 1991 and 27 april 1992. the supreme court dismissed his subsequent appeal. his subsequent appeal was dismissed and the applicant initiated court proceedings. on 25 february 1999 the institute refused his application, holding that he had not continuously had permanent resident status in slovenia between 25 june 1991 and october 1998 (section 2(1)(2) of the 1998 act). on 10 january 2003 the ljubljana labour and social court dismissed an application for judicial review lodged by the applicant. on 19 may 2003, after lodging a new request with the institute, the applicant was granted an old-age pension as from 4 february 2003 under the pension and disability insurance act (hereinafter “the general rules”).
the applicants were born in 1988, 1982, 1984 and 1987 respectively. after the arrest the applicants were placed in a punishment cell where their beating continued. the examinations of the applicants were conducted in the presence of the investigator. it was observed that the third applicant had multiple abrasions on the right forearm; an abrasion on the back of the fifth finger of his left hand; and cuts which were slightly bleeding on his head, on the left temple and crown. had multiple abrasions on his feet and hands. all of them withdrew the statements they had given during the pre-trial investigation. on 10 november 2009 all the applicants, except for the fourth one, complained to the chief prosecutor of georgia of ill-treatment on 30 march 2009 and requested the initiation of criminal proceedings in line with the requirements of article 3 of the convention. on 3 march 2010 the fourth applicant also lodged a criminal complaint of ill-treatment with the office of the chief prosecutor. in april 2011 the investigation department of the ministry of prisons conducted the first investigative interviews in connection with the applicants’ alleged ill-treatment. stated that the first and fourth applicants had surrendered without resistance or complications. the three prisoners had resisted arrest while they had been in the truck cabin. the investigator also interviewed the four applicants, who confirmed the allegations of ill-treatment they had made in their criminal complaints. in particular, they stated that they had been severely beaten with wooden sticks and iron pipes immediately after their arrest and as a result, the first, second and fourth applicants had passed out several times. they denied that they had sustained their injuries as a result of falling from the wall. hence, on 19 june 2014 the applicants’ lawyer sent an additional complaint.
the list of applicants and the relevant details of the applications are set out in the appended table. on 25 september 2000 the neamț county court ordered a state‑owned company to pay the applicant due salary rights. on 9 october 2001 the roman district court ordered a private person to reimburse a loan to the applicant. on 14 november 2008 the brașov county court ordered the municipality of brașov to leave a plot of land in the applicant’s full property and possession. on 3 april 2009 the applicant signed a report, drafted on the occasion of the compulsory enforcement of the above judgment, which attested to the restoration of his possession over the land in dispute by placement of metal bars on the free area and by tracing a line with white paint over the area occupied by roads and bridge pillars belonging to the municipality. on 18 july 2008 the applicant contracted a loan of 250,000 euros (eur) from a bank, with the plot of land used as guarantee. on 22 august 2011 the bank sold the land at a public auction for eur 325,000, since the applicant had failed to repay the loan within the set deadline. in accordance with domestic law, the remaining amount after the recovery of the debt must be returned to the debtor.
the first applicant was born in 1942 and at the time of the events he lived in baku. his ill-treatment was stopped owing to his high blood pressure. his family was not informed of his place of detention. the lawyer also indicated in his submissions that there were bruises on the first applicant’s hand, and that the first applicant had to follow a special diet and be provided with the relevant medication because of his state of health. the first applicant was not provided with a copy of the report. during the period when he had been administratively detained on the premises of the mns, he had been subjected to unrecorded interviews with 200/220 mm hg blood pressure, he had not been provided with the relevant medication, and on several occasions, he had not been allowed to go to the toilet with the intention of breaking his will. on an unspecified date the first applicant appealed against the sabail district court’s decision of 17 february 2007. in this regard, he claimed that he had been ill-treated by agents of the mns between 2 and 17 february 2007 and that he had been unlawfully arrested and detained by them. 54/tm, that there was no objective sign of injury on the first applicant’s body. on 6 march 2009 the nizami district court partially allowed the action, holding that the first applicant’s placement in a punishment cell had been unlawful. 15 had proposed his transfer to a specialised medical establishment. on 16 april 2009 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal. by a letter dated 27 august 2009, the baku city prosecutor’s office returned the documents of the criminal inquiry to the nizami district prosecutor’s office, finding that the inquiry into the first applicant’s death had not been conducted thoroughly. it further found that the first applicant’s cellmates and the doctors examining him in prison had not been questioned by the prosecuting authorities. on 21 october 2009 the second and third applicants lodged a complaint against the prosecutor’s decision of 28 september 2009 with the nizami district court, asking the court to overrule it.
the applicant was born in 1987 and is detained in drogobych. before being arrested on criminal charges, all of them had been placed in administrative detention for alleged resistance to the police, in the course of which they confessed to the burglary. they also drew up a report on the applicant’s administrative arrest, which suggested that no physical injuries had been found on him during his apprehension. according to the applicant, he was forced to make such a statement by the head of the police station. on 12 february 2008 the applicant was taken to sambir town hospital, where he was diagnosed with a fractured right foot and received the necessary medical assistance. he alleged that the authorities had forged the documents and that the recorded interview they referred to had in fact taken place in the investigator’s room on 7 february 2018, during his administrative detention (see paragraph 13 above). she alleged that she recognised him by his hands and provided the relevant details. it further relied on the sambir prosecutor’s findings set out in his decision of 7 march 2008, which had not been appealed against by the applicant, according to which on 7 and 12 february 2008 the applicant himself submitted that he had had twisted his foot on the stairs and that he had had no complaints against the officers of sambir police station (see paragraph 37 below). on 14 february 2008 lawyer i., acting upon the instructions of the applicant’s relatives, lodged a criminal complaint with the sambir district prosecutor’s office about the applicant’s ill-treatment and requested that he be given a forensic medical examination. on 27 february and 20 march 2008 the applicant’s mother and father respectively complained to the sambir district prosecutor’s office and the prosecutor general of the applicant’s ill-treatment in police custody and the police’s failure to provide the applicant with timely medical assistance for his foot injury. the father requested that the applicant be given a forensic medical examination. in particular, the applicant and the police officers identified by him were questioned on a number of occasions; reconstructions of the crime scene were conducted (on 29 july and 16 august 2008) and identification parades were carried out (on 16 august and 17 september 2008). on 17, 18 and 30 september 2008 confrontation interviews between the applicant and the police officers were carried out. in the prosecutor’s opinion, the experts’ conclusions of 4 march 2008 and 28 october 2008 raised doubts as to their correctness and contradicted the material in the case file. according to the report, the applicant had a fracture of the fifth metatarsus bone of his right foot which, given the absence of external injuries in the area of the fracture, could have been sustained without the application of external force to the applicant, for example by twisting the foot while walking or running.
schedule 7 to the terrorism act 2000 (“tact”) empowers police, immigration officers and designated customs officers to stop, examine and search passengers at ports, airports and international rail terminals. if someone fails to co-operate he or she is deemed to have committed a criminal offence and could face up to three months in prison, a fine or both. on 4 january 2011, following a visit to her husband in france, the applicant and her three children returned to the united kingdom on a flight from paris. at the united kingdom borders’ agency (“ukba”) desk the applicant and her children were stopped but she was not formally detained or arrested. she was therefore taken to an examination room with her youngest child. the applicant’s luggage was taken to another room and searched. at approximately 9.00 p.m., while she was praying, one of the officers spoke with her lawyer and indicated that she would be free to speak to him in fifteen minutes. when she finished praying, she was told that she could telephone her lawyer after she had been searched. thereafter, she was asked a number of questions about her family, her financial circumstances and her recent visit to france. in respect of the article 8 complaint, the court considered that the present case was distinguishable from that of gillan and quinton v. the united kingdom, no. however, the exercise of schedule 7 powers is subject to cumulative statutory limitations. as she had been returning to the united kingdom after visiting her husband, who was imprisoned in france for terrorism offences, she was not stopped and examined on a random basis. in any case, although the percentage of travellers subjected to the use of the power was small, in absolute terms the number was not inconsequential, since on average five to seven people each day were examined for more than an hour. lord kerr considered the requirement that a person questioned under schedule 7 must answer on pain of prosecution for failing to do so to be in breach of that person’s common law privilege against self-incrimination and therefore incompatible with article 6 of the convention. in lord kerr’s opinion, it was inescapable that there was a real and appreciable risk of prosecution if the answers to the questions asked proved to be self‑incriminating, and the fact that the applicant in the present case was not suspected of being a terrorist was nothing to the point.
the applicants are entrepreneurs who obtained from the local authorities in leova licences (patenta) to offer services such as selling various types of goods at the local marketplace. another marketplace, owned by the state (u.), was open on sundays, but was situated far from the centre and was inconvenient to many sellers and the population. the applicants and l.’s owners asked the local authorities for a change in work schedule, allowing them to work on sundays and to have their free day on monday, as was the case of many similar marketplaces in other towns. however, the local authorities rejected on a number of occasions such a change, invoking various sanitary, public order and other reasons. according to the applicants, the real reason for the refusal was the protection of u.’s interests, since sunday was the most lucrative day of the week. on 2 march 2005 the leova city council adopted its decision no. on the same day the 191 entrepreneurs working on the territory of l., including the applicants, declared a strike and decided to submit an official request for a change in their work schedule. accordingly, on 4 april 2005 the entrepreneurs submitted their request to the “leova regional council”. in it, the applicants made a similar description to that in their complaint made mentioned in paragraph above. 2.2 adopted by the city council of the leova mayoralty. after discussing the issue, the city council adopted its decision no. 3.1 in which it took note of the applicants’ demands and decided that l. was to work in accordance with the decision of the leova city council no. on 12 may 2005 the mayor of leova replied to the complaint of 4 april 2005. on 5 july 2005 the leova district court found in favour of the entrepreneurs. the court added that the applicants no longer had the right to complain against the decision of 2 march 2005.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lived in budva. on 8 october 2009 the applicant’s brother was murdered in belgrade, serbia. on an unspecified date between 18 and 26 july 2013 the applicant was arrested in montenegro. on 29 january 2014 the high court (viši sud) in podgorica refused the request, which decision was upheld by the court of appeals (apelacioni sud). he submitted, inter alia, that he had neither any reason nor any possibility to influence the other suspects given that they were in detention under a special regime in belgrade. on 7 october 2014 the high state prosecutor issued an indictment against the applicant for aggravated murder through incitement and for criminal association. on 17 october 2014 the high court extended the applicant’s detention “until a further decision of the court”, on the basis of article 175 § 1(4) of the cpc. it considered that the high court’s reasoning was clear and detailed, the only exception being the finding that the applicant could abscond, which was an obvious error (omaška), but it considered it of no importance for the lawfulness of his detention. on 15 december 2014 the applicant approached the prison authorities and sought that he be released. he submitted that his detention had not been reviewed after a 30-day period and that therefore it had been unlawful as of 15 november 2014. the court also considered that detention could not be replaced by any other, less restrictive measure. the applicant referred to, inter alia, letellier v. france, 26 june 1991, series a no. the applicant’s detention was further extended on 15 january, 30 january, 2 march, 2 april, 4 may, 4 june, 6 july, 6 august, 10 september, 9 october, 9 november and 9 december 2015, 11 january, 11 february, 11 march, 11 april, 11 may, 13 june, 15 july, 25 july, 1 september, 4 october and 4 november 2016. the court took into account the length of detention thus far, the fact that the indictment had been returned for the third time, and that it was uncertain when and if at all it would come into force, and held that the applicant should not bear the consequences of that. on 13 april 2017 the high court terminated the proceedings (obustavio postupak) due to the applicant’s death.
the applicants were born in 1955 and 1948 respectively. the first applicant died on 29 august 2018. on 28 september 2006 o. gave birth to a daughter, m. 10. in may 2008 o. and m. moved in with the applicants in russia. furthermore, there was a disagreement as to whether m. should start school in september 2013. from that moment on the first applicant began to lodge applications with the childcare authorities alleging that ms z. prevented her communicating with the child. while the first applicant did not have any contact with the child after that, the second applicant continued communicating with m. until november 2014. on 16 march 2015 the district court granted the second applicant’s application. meanwhile, on 28 may 2015 the first applicant applied to the district court to have the procedural time-limit for lodging her appeal against the adoption judgment of 26 november 2013 restored. on 10 september 2015 the city court upheld the above decision on appeal. however, since the girl retained the positive image of her grandmother and expressed her wish to communicate with her, it was possible to establish a contact arrangement, which would provide for an obligatory preparatory stage, including reconciliation between the relatives. on 10 february 2015 the pushkinskiy district court of st petersburg established, on the basis of the relevant reports and expert examinations, that m. still had a positive image of the first applicant and had expressed a wish to have contact with her, and that it was therefore possible to establish a contact schedule between them. the pushkinskiy district court therefore ordered mr and ms z. not to place obstacles in the way of the first applicant’s communication with m. and held that contact between the first applicant and m. should take place as follows: during the first six months after the finalisation of the judgment – each second and fourth sunday of the month from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. outside the parents’ and the grandparents’ places of residence in the presence of the parents, and thereafter on the same conditions without the parents present. the city court held that the district court had committed substantial violations of material and procedural law which resulted in wrongful conclusions. on an unspecified date in 2015 the second applicant instituted court proceedings against mr and ms z., seeking to oblige them not to thwart his contact with his granddaughter m. and to have the contact schedule with the latter determined pursuant to article 67 of the family code.
on 18 july 2006 a local daily newspaper, the kostroma chronometer (хронометр-кострома) published in issue no. in spite of the serious nature of the criminal charges brought against his deputy, governor v.sh. persisted and for a long time refused to dismiss from office the civil servant who had tainted his reputation. on 28 july 2006 the administration of the kostroma region and v.sh., the judgment read, in so far as relevant, as follows:“analysing the article’s contents as a whole and the information therein disputed by the claimants, the court concludes that ... the expression ‘to save face’ referring to the corruption scandals in the region and endeavours of the administration of the kostroma region is not defamatory for the reason that the criminal prosecution of the heads of the region’s executive bodies and unitary enterprises was a known fact. all these events attracted public attention and drew wide public response in the region, regardless of articles in the press. ’s attempts to shield, at all costs, the actions of his subordinate d.s., the governor requested that the court examine the possible termination of criminal proceedings against d.s., taking into account legal norms in force. ‘at all costs’ [всеми силами] means [according to the dictionary] by all means and in every manner. was trying to prove to the court that [his deputy] d.s. had not been involved in the crimes he had been accused of and that he was trying to help him escape criminal responsibility at all costs. this expression describes a person who, for the sake of personal or narrowly interpreted institutional interests, does not want to wash his dirty linen in public [and] wishes to maintain decency and a good reputation by any means possible. the defendants failed to provide evidence that would objectively demonstrate that, when sending the petition concerning the termination of the criminal case against d.s., on 11 december 2006 the regional court rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of 5 october 2006 in full.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in ulyanovsk. the applicant’s account of subsequent events at the police station is the following. and m., who requested that he confess to the robbery. the applicant refused to sign any confession statements. the applicant was threatened with physical retaliation if he complained about their conduct. at 7.20 a.m. on 17 june 2007 investigator a.i. on 18 june 2007 the gagarinskiy district court of moscow remanded the applicant in custody. 33 at the request of the on-duty officer of the kotlovka district police station. according to records from the ivs and iz-77/2, of 17 and 21 june 2007, respectively, the applicant had multiple contusions and abrasions on his head, chest and upper limbs. and m. had been examined during his criminal trial and dismissed as unconfirmed. on 6 june 2011 the moscow city court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and fully endorsed the first‑instance court’s decision. he stated that on 16 june 2007 he had been arrested, driven to a police station and physically assaulted by police officers. it relied mainly on the investigator’s refusal to open a criminal case against the police officers of 14 september 2007 (subsequently overruled), noting there was no objective information showing that physical violence had been used against the applicant. the applicant’s co-accused, k., did not confirm his confession statements at the preliminary investigation, explaining that he had given them because police officers had physically assaulted him and had made him see the applicant’s beatings. the government submitted statements collected by lieutenant colonel s. from the internal security department of the ministry of internal affairs in moscow on 17 november 2016 from police officer m. and investigator a.i.,
the applicant was born in 1963 and is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 august 2008 the applicant was arrested in orel on suspicion of assault and rape. according to the applicant, during his time in police custody police officers from the severnyy district police department in orel and the operational search division of the orel regional police department (овд по северному району г. on 15 august 2008 the orel inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee for the orel region (“the investigative committee”) ordered a forensic medical examination of the applicant. it began on 15 august 2008 and was completed on 29 august 2008. 2378/5a), the applicant had the following injuries: (i) three scratches on his right cheek; (ii) two bruises on his neck; (iii) two bruises on his chest; (iv) two bruises on his back; (v) eleven bruises and an abrasion on his right upper limb; (vi) nine bruises and an abrasion on his left upper limb; (vii) an abrasion on his right lower leg; (viii) an abrasion on his left hip; and (ix) an abrasion on his left buttock. according to pre-trial detention facility iz-57/1, on 20 august 2008 the applicant had abrasions above the left eyebrow, on the left cheek, the wrists and the right elbow. those refusals were systematically overruled by the higher authority within the investigative committee as premature, unsubstantiated and based on incomplete inquiries, and the investigation authorities were ordered to carry out additional inquiries. the refusals were issued and overruled on the following dates: refusal no. issued on:overruled on:(i)19 december 200818 february 2009(ii)27 february 200912 may 2009(iii)26 june 2009date unknown(iv)21 august 20096 may 2010(v)16 may 201019 october 2010(vi)29 october 2010 15. according to statements by the applicant’s girlfriend, she heard the applicant screaming from being allegedly beaten up during his arrest and at the police station; several days later at the police station he had complained to her that police officers had beaten him up; he had had abrasions on the face; and he had lost consciousness during a confrontation between them and the ambulance had been called. the most recent refusal to institute criminal proceedings against the police officers of 29 october 2010 maintained the findings made in the previous refusals (for example, the refusal of 26 june 2009) that the police had lawfully applied force during the applicant’s arrest, that the applicant had attempted to inflict injuries on himself, which was coherent with the forensic medical expert’s conclusion that the injuries, except for the injuries on the back, had been within the reach of his hands. by alleging the police ill‑treatment the applicant had tried to escape prosecution and to blacken the police officers’ honour and dignity. on 16 april 2009 the zavodskiy district court of orel convicted the applicant of physical assaults and rapes involving three women victims, and sentenced him to thirteen years and five months’ imprisonment. at trial, the applicant denied his guilt and complained about the police ill-treatment.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is serving a sentence of imprisonment in tavda, sverdlovsk region. on 23 may 2006 the dzerzhinskiy district court of nizhniy tagil (“the district court”) rejected the applicant’s complaint. on 5 september 2006 the applicant was served with a bill of indictment and the case was submitted to the regional court for trial. according to the applicant, when the officers entered the room where he was sleeping they immediately dragged him on to the floor and started kicking and beating him with their gun stocks. on 21 march 2006, during his medical examination at yekaterinburg sizo-1, the applicant was diagnosed with fractures to the eighth and ninth ribs on his left side. on 17 april 2006 an investigator of the district prosecutor’s office refused to open a criminal case against the officers who had participated in the applicant’s arrest, stating that the existence of constituent elements of a crime in their actions had not been made out. in their report of 15 february 2013 the medical experts concluded that on the basis of the available documents they could not determine the time when the applicant’s ribs had been broken. the additional expert report dated 30 april 2013 also stated that the time when the injuries had been inflicted could not be established. he noted, in particular, that at the regional hospital the applicant had explained that he had received his injuries when he had fallen in the street on 18 march 2006. according to the applicant, on numerous occasions between 14 april and 6 september 2006 he was taken from sizo-3 to the dzerzhinskiy police station in nizhniy tagil, where he was threatened in order to make him cooperate with the investigating authority. on 29 november 2012, following the communication of the complaint to the government, the head of the investigation department of the investigation committee at the russian federation’s prosecutor’s office for the sverdlovsk region quashed the decision of 18 april 2009 as premature. an additional pre-investigation inquiry was ordered. on 9 january 2013 a chief investigator of the dzerzhinskiy district investigation division took a decision refusing to institute criminal proceedings. apart from complaints of a cough and shortness of breath no other complaints were raised by the applicant. on 24 june 2016 the regional court upheld the above decision on appeal.
the applicant was born in 1957 and lives in carate urio (como). the applicant is a well-known italian journalist. at the material time, specifically from january 2007 until 15 july 2008, he was the editor-in-chief of libero, a national daily newspaper that sold around 125,000 copies per day. on 17 february 2007 one of the main italian newspapers, la stampa, published an article covering the story of a thirteen-year old girl who had undergone an abortion. later that day it was reported that there had been no pressure placed on the teenager, and that she had decided alone to terminate the pregnancy. the law is stronger than life” (il giudice ordina l’aborto. it was worded as follows:“a teenager from turin has been forced by her parents to [have an abortion] ... the magistrate has heard the parties and has applied the law – the law! – ordering the compulsory abortion ... she did not want. she struggled ... [n]ow the young mother (you are still considered as a mother even if your son died) is hospitalised as mentally ill. filed a criminal complaint against the applicant and a.m. with the milan district court. in its judgment of 17 june 2011, filed in the relevant registry on 24 june 2011, the milan court of appeal quashed the first-instance judgment in part. in addition, the damages were also increased from eur 10,000 to eur 30,000. by a decision of 30 november 2012, filed in the relevant registry on the same date, the milan court responsible for the execution of sentences (tribunale di sorveglianza di milano) ordered the applicant to serve his sentence under house arrest (pericolo di fuga), on the grounds that there was no risk that he might abscond. on an unspecified date, relying on article 87 § 11 of the constitution, the applicant filed a request with the president of the italian republic to convert the remainder of the detention period into a fine. the applicant spent twenty-one days under house arrest, starting 30 november 2012 until 21 december 2012, when he was released (see paragraphs 20-22).
the applicant was born in 1992 and is currently serving a prison sentence. the applicant was a student at the azerbaijan state university of economics at the time of the events. the demonstrations were organised through social media and the information about them was disseminated through social media and the press. 20589/13 and 7 others, 6 april 2017; bayramov v. azerbaijan, nos. the applicant did not dance and just observed those who were dancing. there is no document in the case file indicating that the video recording in question was uploaded to youtube by the applicant. in the back of the scene, one person is dancing in a close proximity to a bronze statue, making sexually suggestive movements. 48653/13 and 3 others, §§ 5-16, 7 june 2018). on the same day the nasimi district court found the applicant guilty under article 298.2 (violation of the rule regulating the organisation and holding of gatherings) of the code of administrative offences and sentenced him to fifteen days’ administrative arrest. 12854/13, 28750/13 and 76329/13, 20 july 2017). the prosecutor justified his request by citing the gravity of the charges against the applicant and the fact that there was a risk of his absconding and obstructing the investigation’s functioning by influencing other participants in the criminal proceedings. he claimed, in particular, that his pre-trial detention was not justified and that there was no reason for it to continue. on 28 june 2013 the nasimi district court dismissed the request, finding it unfounded. on 4 july 2013 the baku court of appeal upheld the first-instance court’s decision. on 19 september 2013 the baku court of appeal dismissed the appeal, upholding the nasimi district court’s decision of 16 september 2013.
he was a member of the national assembly (milli majlis), elected in 2005. the presentation of the report was to be followed by questions and subsequently by a debate. according to the applicant, when he was given an opportunity to ask a question, he began to deliver a speech criticising the cabinet of ministers. after a few sentences his microphone was cut and he was not allowed to finish his speech. this prompted the applicant to engage in a verbal argument with the speaker. the applicant, using gestures, invited f.a. but was stopped by several other members who had quickly intervened to stop the fight. by a decision of the prosecutor general’s office of 19 march 2007, the applicant was formally charged with criminal offences under articles 132 and 221.2.2 of the criminal code. the decision stated that the applicant’s actions had caused f.a. to experience symptoms of a closed craniocerebral trauma. could not be considered as a person carrying out a duty in protection of public order. on 24 july 2007 the baku court of appeal held a preliminary hearing. the court dismissed the applicant’s application with regard to the latter as follows:“the court’s panel, after having briefly deliberated on the bench,decidesto ensure the participation of [f.a.] although he continuously complained about this to various domestic authorities, no measures were taken to adequately address his medical problems. on 28 march 2007 the applicant underwent an x-ray examination, which did not reveal any pathology in his thorax.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic. at about 7 p.m. on 4 january 2003 a grey uaz minivan (tabletka) allegedly belonging to the gudermes district department of the interior (“the gudermes rovd”) parked near the applicants’ house in oiyskhar settlement, chechnya. on 20 march 2003 the first applicant was granted victim status in the criminal proceedings. 59116 under article 126 of the cc (abduction). on 1 july 2002 the investigators questioned the first applicant. on 5 march 2004 and 22 february 2008 the first applicant asked the head of the federal service for the execution of sentences and the chechnya ombudsman to assist her in her search for her son. some of the witnesses, whose identities the applicants did not disclose before the court, heard mr vakha nauzov shouting that his boss should be informed that they were being taken away. on 10 november 2006 some of the applicants informed the leninskiy district prosecutor in grozny of the abduction and requested assistance in the search for their relatives. subsequently, the proceedings were resumed on 17 may and 16 november 2011 and 28 february 2014, and were then suspended on 6 june and 21 december 2011 and 19 march 2014 respectively. there is no information about further progress in the case. on 4 september 2004 the proceedings were resumed. her request was then forwarded to the investigators, who informed her on 21 june 2009 that the criminal proceedings into the events of 26 november 2002 had been suspended. on 16 and 25 june 2005, 15 september 2008 and 20 april 2009 the applicant contacted the grozny town prosecutor, the chechen parliament, the russian investigative committee and the head of the chechen parliament, seeking their assistance in the search for her son. on 5 april 2012 the applicant asked the investigators to inform her of the progress made and to allow her to access the case file. the first applicant is the wife of mr islam asukhanov, who was born in 1968.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in noviy engenoy. they went in that direction and saw six or seven men in military camouflage uniforms next to their car and heard them speaking russian. then they saw the servicemen trying to push the car into the pond and, when their attempt failed, set it on fire. ran to the village of sary-su to warn the police. they knocked at the door of the house of a local resident, mr kh.v., returned to the pond, accompanied by the police. on the way there they had stopped to change a flat tyre when two apcs with russian-speaking servicemen had pulled over. on 2 june 2006 the investigators suspended the investigation for failure to identify the perpetrators. from the documents submitted it transpires that following the applicant’s complaint, on 22 january 2007 a prosecutor from the chechnya prosecutor’s office requested that the investigators inform him of the reasons for the suspension of the criminal proceedings and the theories they had examined in order to identify the perpetrators; he also requested the entire contents of the relevant criminal case file. neither the applicant, nor her relatives were informed thereof. between february 2007 and september 2009, the criminal case file remained with the chechen prosecutor’s office to be checked by the prosecutor’s superiors. the brother of vakhid magamedov, who stated that he had not witnessed the incident and had only learnt of his brother’s murder on 2 april 2006. the brother of vakhid magamedov, who reaffirmed his previous statement. on 1 november 2014 the investigators questioned mr kh.m., on 20 may 2015, in reply to a request lodged by the applicant for information, the investigators informed her that on 20 may 2015 the proceedings had been suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is serving a sentence of life imprisonment in kyiv pre-trial detention centre no. in the first image, the applicant could not be seen; in the second image his head was visible. in may and july 2014 the kherson regional office (“the regional office”) of the state department for the enforcement of sentences (“the prison department”) replied to her that it was a statutory security measure, of which life prisoners were aware, and that the applicant’s intimacy had not been violated given that the video camera, which was indeed placed above the toilet area, did not cover the toilet itself. when the central heating was turned off, the temperature inside the cells was extremely low. the total energy value of a daily portion of food was 3,198 calories. 392 measured 22.8 square metres and was equipped with ten beds. according to the records in the applicant’s medical file, from july 2010 to december 2014 he underwent forty-four bacteriological sputum tests; thirty general blood analyses (he reportedly refused to undergo tests on fourteen occasions); fifty-six general urine analyses (with two reported refusals); as well as x-ray examinations approximately once every three months. on 10 may 2011 the applicant was diagnosed for the first time with genito-urinary tb and was prescribed antibacterial treatment. on 2 july 2013 the applicant underwent an examination by a panel of medical experts, which established that his medical treatment for tb had failed and had no prospects of success. on 23 july 2013 the prison administration wrote to the applicant’s lawyer stating that the decision to provide the applicant with palliative care was based on order no. his health was stable and he remained under constant medical supervision. it had been observed that the applicant’s medical treatment had not been able to stop the emission of tubercle bacilli for about two years, that the applicant had developed a resistance to most anti-tb drugs, and that there remained no room for any further adjustment of his treatment. lastly, it was observed that the conditions of the applicant’s detention and the medical care arrangements afforded to him were in compliance with the applicable legal provisions. on 17 june 2014 the kherson suvorovskyy district court refused the applicant’s request on the grounds that his medical condition did not fall under the list of diseases warranting early release (see paragraph 74 below). on 21 august 2014 the kherson regional court of appeal upheld that decision by a final ruling.
a new court within the icelandic judicial system, the court of appeal (landsréttur), was established on 1 january 2018 and became operational on the same day. specific temporary provisions on the appointment of judges to the court, including temporary provision iv of the new judiciary act no. by email of 16 may 2017, the permanent secretary of the prime minister’s office informed lawyers in the prime minister’s office, and the ministry of justice working on the matter, that the minister of justice had approved the proposed procedure set out in the memorandum of the secretary-general of the parliament. the assessment report did not contain an internal formal ranking of the fifteen candidates, but the committee stated explicitly that the fifteen named candidates were all more qualified than the remaining applicants. by a letter of 28 may 2017, the chairman of the committee informed the minister on the manner in which the committee had given weight to each evaluation criterion, which had been part of its overall assessment, and explained that the same approach had been followed during his four years as chairman of the committee. who had been ranked number 18, be appointed. she reiterated her view that more weight should be given to judicial experience in the assessment of the candidates. in the letter the minister requested that letters of appointment be issued for fifteen named individuals for the office of judges of the court of appeal in a specific order. on 8 june 2017, in accordance with the minister of justice’s proposal and parliament’s acceptance of the list presented by the minister, the president of iceland signed the appointment letters for the fifteen nominated candidates, including a.e. the court then stated that when the minister decided to propose to parliament to depart from the committee’s opinion, as the law permits, the minister’s proposal had to be based on an independent investigation of all the elements necessary to substantiate her proposal in accordance with section 10 of the administrative procedures act (see paragraph 62 below). on this basis, the supreme court held that in the light of her obligation to independently investigate the facts under section 10 of the administrative procedures act, the minister should, at a minimum, have compared the competences of the four candidates she decided to include in her proposal to parliament and the fifteen candidates considered most qualified by the committee. on 6 april 2017, the applicant appealed the judgment to the supreme court and requested that his sentence be reduced. to withdraw, the trial continued with a.e as one of the three judges on the bench. his claims were based on the ground that the procedure leading up to the appointment of a.e., in case that fails and the appointment is thus unlawful “the judge in question is not a lawful holder of judicial power and a court’s judicial rulings in which he has participated constitute a dead letter”, as is argued in [the applicant’s] observations before the supreme court.
the applicant was born in 1983 and lives in jūrmala. on 10 february 2009 a prosecutor lodged an appeal (apelācijas protests) against the decision of 1 december 2008. the riga regional court (rīgas apgabaltiesa) instituted appeal proceedings. he asked for the hearing to be postponed so that he could prepare his defence. on 19 october 2009 the applicant lodged an appeal with the administrative courts. under domestic law, decisions that had become final could not be quashed on appeal. on 20 december 2010 the administrative district court (administratīvā rajona tiesa) dismissed the appeal, noting that the decision of 1 december 2008 had been set aside by the riga regional court, whereas the judgment of 27 february 2009 revoking his right to drive vehicles had taken effect and was binding. it added that the twenty-day time-limit for lodging an appeal only applied to persons against whom administrative offence proceedings had been instituted. it did not apply to prosecutors in the exercise of their right to lodge an appeal. its legality could not be reassessed in the present set of proceedings. on 23 september 2009 the police drew up an administrative offence report stating that the applicant had driven a car while disqualified and that the offence had been committed repeatedly within a year, in violation of article 1494(7) of the code of administrative offences (hereinafter “the repeat offence”). on 26 february 2010 the riga regional court by a final judgment upheld the finding that the applicant had committed a repeat offence. the only criterion for determining the repeated nature of the offence was whether or not the decision on the initial offence had been set aside or its legal effect suspended at the time the decision on the repeat offence was being taken. on 2 june 2010, when the applicant lodged his application with the court, he submitted that he had already served the sentence of five day’s administrative detention and had already paid the fine imposed in the third set of administrative offence proceedings. the government did not contest this allegation.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in tbilisi. on 4 july 2004 a police officer, the head of the criminal investigation unit at the gldani-nadzaladevi district police department in tbilisi (“the district police department”), ordered a personal search of the applicant to be carried out in urgent circumstances. the second document was a handwritten note from l.ts., he confirmed that the substance had been found in the back right pocket of the applicant’s jeans and that the applicant had stated that it belonged to him. there, they had dictated to him a text which he had signed. ’s testimony before the trial court was untrue, he confirmed the official version of the search of the applicant and maintained that the latter’s personal search had been conducted immediately at the scene of his arrest. the court found that the applicant’s guilt was proven by the statements given by the two police officers who had arrested and searched him, and by the results of the personal search. ’s testimony where he had denied being present during the search. the second attesting witness to the search, who confirmed that he had been present during the search in question at the request of the police, and had seen that a yellowish substance had been discovered in the applicant’s trouser pocket. confirmed the evidence he had given before the first-instance court. he alleged that he had been subjected to psychological as well as physical pressure by the police. the two friends of the applicant were also questioned in the appeal court. had been working for the ministry in 1996. in connection with the search decision, they concluded that it had been taken by an authorised police officer in line with the requirements of article 67 of the ccp. on 6 march 2006 the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1973 and currently lives in vienna, austria. in 2002 the applicant purchased a flat in baku at a location near the tezepir mosque, with a living space of 17.6 sq. in 2004 the applicant carried out some renovation and construction works at the flat, as a result of which the total area of the flat became 84 sq. m, while the living space increased to 33.6 sq. m of which was living space and the remainder of which was auxiliary space. the tezepir mosque argued that the area where the applicant’s flat was located was within the area of works required for the renovation and development of the mosque complex, and that the applicant and her family were the only residents who had refused to relinquish their flat in exchange for the compensation offered to them. the tezepir mosque was ready to pay 100,000 united states dollars (usd) in compensation. it appears that, in support of this claim, he submitted copies of some sale announcements published in unidentified issues of the local newspaper. m, that the market value of comparable flats was usd 3,000 per sq. m, and that she would sell her flat only if she was paid usd 252,000. it also referred to an order by the soviet of ministers of the azerbaijan soviet socialist republic (“the azerbaijan ssr”) dated 22 may 1986 (hereinafter “the order of 22 may 1986”), concerning renovation work on the land of the tezepir mosque and the relocation of people residing in that area to other accommodation. in deciding the amount of compensation payable, the court found that the area of the applicant’s flat was 33.6 sq. the court considered that the proposed amount of compensation was reasonable. by a separate decision delivered on the same day, the yasamal district court also ordered the immediate execution of the judgment. on 27 september and 27 december 2006 the judgment was upheld by the court of appeal and the supreme court respectively.
in the 1970s a copper-molybdenum deposit (‘teghout’) was discovered about four and six km away from the villages of teghout and shnogh respectively, in the lori region. on 1 november 2007 the government adopted decree no. 1279-n approving the designation of territories situated within the administrative boundaries of the rural communities of shnogh and teghout in the lori region as expropriation zones, to be taken for state needs, thus changing the category of land use. the applicants, a family of four, live in shnogh village and earn their living from agriculture and apiculture. the land was used for growing crops for the family, feeding their livestock and beekeeping. on an unspecified date teghout cjsc addressed a letter to the applicants containing an offer to buy their plots of land. the applicants did not reply to the offer, not being satisfied with the amount of compensation. it appears that they tried to obtain an alternative valuation of their property by another company, but did not succeed. according to the reports, the market value of the applicants’ plots of land was estimated at amd 183,000 (approximately eur 398) and amd 304,000 (approximately eur 661) respectively. they further submitted that the valuation of their property had not been carried out correctly, since no account had been taken of the number of trees, the beekeeper’s house situated on the second plot of land, and a number of other factors that should have affected the calculation of the amount of compensation. according to the new valuations, the market value of the applicants’ second plot of land including the building was estimated to be amd 1,728,000 (approximately eur 3,760). on 28 november 2008 the regional court granted teghout cjsc’s claim, awarding the applicants compensation of amd 217,350 for the first plot of land and amd 1,987,200 for the second plot of land. relying, inter alia, on article 1 of protocol no. 1 to the convention, they complained that the regional court had deprived them of their property. on 18 june 2009 the civil court of appeal upheld the regional court’s judgment finding, inter alia, that the latter had struck a fair balance between the applicants’ interests and the legitimate aim pursued, and that the market value of the property had been properly determined, on the basis of the corrected valuation reports prepared by oliver group cjsc.
the applicant was born in 1946 and currently lives in berlin, germany. in 2005 he was an english teacher in a school in kyiv, ukraine. at that time he entered into private relations with a married woman living in kyiv. her husband was indicated as the father in the child’s birth certificate. in 2007 a dna test was performed proving that the applicant was in fact the father of the child. the applicant was not prevented from having access to the child by her mother, who accepted financial support from him on a monthly basis. the applicant bought a car for the child’s mother. in 2011 he wrote a will bequeathing all his property to the child. the applicant had regular contact with the child until 2015 when the mother informed the applicant that she had divorced her husband and that she had decided to marry a german national and move with the child to germany. as the applicant opposed the decision to emigrate to germany, the mother denied him access to the child and prevented him from communicating with the child. during the hearing the mother of the child admitted that the applicant had provided regular financial support and had taken part in the upbringing and education of the child. the applicant contended that he had delayed his lawsuit because he had not wished to disturb the child’s family situation and he had not been prevented from communicating with the child on a regular basis until 2015. it took into account the applicant’s argument that he had not wished to disturb the family and cause any harm to the child with a lawsuit during the long period when the mother had in fact assisted him in having regular access to the child. on 3 february 2016 the kyiv court of appeal overturned the district court’s decision and dismissed the applicant’s claim as time-barred. on 13 july 2016 the higher specialised civil and criminal court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law, without examining whether the applicant had provided valid reasons which could justify his non-compliance with the time-limit set out in article 129 § 2 of the family code.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in beiuş. and had a daughter with him, born in 2011. a representative of the bihor directorate general for social welfare and child protection (“the child‑protection authority”) was also present at these meetings. it appears that neither the applicant nor the bailiff appealed against this decision. on 6 october 2014 the bailiff lodged a criminal complaint against i.t. but the child who had opposed the enforcement. they asked to see the child to verify if she wanted to go with her mother. refused, but eventually he brought the child out. the bailiff noted as follows:“after [the mother] talked with the minor, i asked the minor if she wanted to leave with her mother, and she gave me a non-committal answer. on 8 december 2014, at the bailiff’s request and based on the report of the visit of 4 november 2014, the child protection authority applied for mandatory counselling under article 912 of the code of civil procedure, with a view to re-establishing a relationship between the applicant and the child. the psychologist met the parents separately and together and met the child. as the applicant did not accede to his request, he refused any contact between the mother and daughter during that period. for refusing to comply with a court order and for alleged acts of violence against the child when the applicant had wanted to take her home. on 30 september 2016 the prosecutor decided not to charge i.t. appealed, but in a final decision of 29 september 2016 the bihor county court upheld the previous decision.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in mica. who started walking alongside her and who tried unsuccessfully to engage her in conversation. he eventually offered her money and a mobile phone if she agreed to have oral sex with him. in a state of shock, the applicant obeyed. as no one answered, she went home and showered. later that evening she talked to her mother and to a friend, explaining to them what had happened. the same day the police interrogated i.l., on 22 may 2008 the applicant went to the târgu-mureş institute of forensic medicine for examination. she concluded that ever since the attack she had been in a constant state of distress and was afraid to leave the house, fearing that the attacker would come and find her because she had dared to complain to the police. on 21 january 2009 the prosecutor’s office attached to the târnăveni district court decided not to open criminal proceedings, as the acts committed by t.f.s. had testified that he had not noticed anything unusual when he had met the applicant and t.f.s. she also requested that a psychiatric expert report be made in the case, in view of the fact that she was suffering from oligophrenia and depressive syndrome. the applicant stated that during the events of 20 may t.f.s. had constantly threatened that he would use the knife he had with him. more specifically, in the absence of a connection between the injuries to the applicant’s arm and the alleged physical coercion, and in the absence of any injuries specific to the crime of rape in the genital area, the alleged physical coercion had not been proved.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in oslo. she is married to a businessman and was formerly a talk show host and active participant in public debate. on 5 november 2010 a forum thread was started in the subforum “theme of the day” under the heading “mona høiness – the case is growing, according to kapital” (“mona høiness – saken vokser, sier kapital”), where the original poster wrote only “what is the status?” (“ leste om denne saken såvidt, for flere uker siden. to which the last commenter responded: “she’s 83 by now [(“etter hvert”)]. in the letter, it was expressly stated that this was not to be made part of the existing complaint against kapital, so as not to further delay the handling of that complaint by the publisher. mr hegnar received a copy of the letter and in an email to the press complaints commission on 9 november 2010 stated, inter alia, that hegnar online was a separate newspaper with its own editor, unrelated to kapital. mr b. from hegnar online responded at 12.45 p.m. the same day, saying that he was sorry that comments in breach of their guidelines had not been deleted, and that he had now deleted the comments he had found. on 23 november 2010 the press complaints commission examined the applicant’s complaints against kapital and finansavisen (see paragraph 6 above), and found that both publications had breached the code of conduct for journalists (vær varsom-plakaten): kapital for their use of a misleading headline (case no. a crematorium in oslo)] with two handbags filled with golden jewellery and wallets. the parties attended with their counsel and one witness was heard. in any case, editorial responsibility could not apply to the situation before the editor had become aware of the comments, and in the instant case they had been removed as soon as mr h. had become aware of them. no further information about who or what kind of person that might be had been given either in the forum or during the civil case. this meant that controls needed to be carried out subsequently, regardless of whether it concerned content subject to editorial responsibility or a website with only user-generated content. however, the high court discussed whether the letter from the applicant’s counsel to the press complaints commission on 8 november 2010 (see paragraph 10 above) implied that mr hegnar should have initiated a deletion process at that time.
the applicant was born in 1974 and lives in ljubljana. the applicant was a member of the supervisory board of company a from 11 november 2013, with a four-year term. allegedly, physical violence occurred between the members of the supervisory board, as some of them did not allow one member to leave the premises, to maintain the required quorum. it would appear that a resolution was passed dismissing the chair of the management board. of their membership, and appoint provisional members. the motion was lodged against the applicant and t.h., who acted as opposing parties (nasprotna udeleženca). ’s conduct, had agreed with it, and had fully cooperated with her. it found that the conduct of two of the supervisory board members was harmful to company a’s functioning and that they should therefore not continue in their function until the end of their four-year term. on 5 june 2014 a journalist asked the applicant to comment on the aforementioned decision. on 24 june 2014 the applicant lodged an appeal arguing, inter alia, that he had been unlawfully denied the opportunity to participate in the proceedings. on 21 january 2015 the ljubljana higher court rejected the applicant’s appeal, finding that he could not have had any legal interest in the outcome of the proceedings because in the meantime company a had at its general meeting appointed new members to replace him and t.h. the applicant lodged a constitutional complaint. this decision was served on the applicant on 13 november 2015. a major slovenian financial newspaper, finance, reported the court’s dismissal of the applicant from its membership in company a’s supervisory board and the issues on which it had been based.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in galgiai in the vilnius region. since that forest was situated in a city, it was considered a forest of national importance and could therefore only be owned by the state (see beinarovič and others v. lithuania, nos. the prosecutor asked that after annulling the applicant’s property rights, the sale agreement between her and company s. (see paragraph 7 above) be annulled in respect of that part of the land. however, on 14 april 2009 the vilnius regional court allowed the claim. accordingly, the agreements between the applicant, company s. and company v. were null and void ab initio. in accordance with the civil code, company s. was ordered to return the plot of land to the state, and the applicant was ordered to return ltl 2,500,000 (approximately eur 724,000) to company s. (see beinarovič and others, cited above, § 94). the court allowed the request for interim measures. on 24 april 2009 four plots of land and two apartments owned by the applicant were seized. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law, in which she argued that as her land was located in a rural area and the forest on that land was not a forest of national importance, there were no grounds to annul her property rights. on 24 july 2012 the applicant received another letter from the nls which stated that there was a possibility for her to receive a plot of land for the construction of an individual home in the vilnius city area but as there were 4,806 other candidates waiting to receive plots in the area, the restitution process would take a long time. she also stated that she had been informed by the vilnius land management authorities that two plots of 0.08 and 0.10 hectares would be allocated to her in galgiai (see paragraphs 17 and 18 above). it is unclear if the applicant received any response to that letter. on 30 june 2017 the nls adopted a decision to restore the applicant’s property rights by giving her 0.3159 hectares of land for the construction of an individual home. in october 2011 the applicant signed an agreement with company s. by which she undertook, in lieu of the monetary payment of ltl 2,500,000 (see paragraph 11 above), to transfer to the company any land which would be given to her during the subsequent restitution process. the government did not comment on that point.
the applicants were born in 1948 and 1963 and live in istanbul and ankara respectively. by a decision dated 21 december 1999 (no. lastly, the remaining 16.47% of capital was held by the public, including the applicants. on 21 december 1999 yaşarbank’s shares, which were open to the public, sold on the istanbul stock exchange at a price of 1,950 former turkish liras (trl) each. 4491, section 14(3) provided for more detailed measures which would be implemented gradually. on 27 february 2002, after examining a number of expert reports, the supreme administrative court dismissed the main shareholders’ action for the annulment of yaşarbank’s transfer to the fund. 4389 did not contravene article 35 of the constitution, which guaranteed the right to property. nor had the recovery plan prepared by the bank been sufficient to improve its financial situation. on 8 february 2007 the general assembly rejected an application for rectification by the main shareholders. he maintained that he had bought the shares on the stock market, relying on the financial statements of the bank, which had been supervised by the capital markets board (sermaye piyasası kurulu) and approved by independent auditing agencies. he argued accordingly that no fault could be attributed to him for yaşarbank’s transfer to the fund and that he should have received the same protection as that granted to the creditors of the bank. in that connection, he argued that the relevant legislation, in particular section 14(5) of law no. on 29 april 2004 the general assembly upheld the judgment. in that connection, he maintained that the deprivation of his property had resulted from the authorities’ failure to comply with their duty of supervision, and in particular the failure of the capital markets board to inform the public of yaşarbank’s deteriorating financial situation, as required by the capital markets act (law no. in doing so it repeated the reasoning it had provided in the first applicant’s case.
he is currently serving a prison sentence in the institution for the execution of criminal sanctions (zavod za izvršenje krivičnih sankcija; hereinafter “the iecs”) in spuž. the court relied on article 175 § 1(1) and (4) of the 2009 ccp. the same day, relying on article 175 § 4 of the ccp, the court extended the four defendants’ detention, including the applicant’s, finding that the reasons for it persisted. the applicant maintained that the cell in which he had been detained had been overcrowded, the number of inmates varying, and that he had lacked water and daily exercise. m, which, at times, he had shared with five other persons at most. with the consent of the high court judge of 9 december 2013, special food products were provided by the applicant’s family, at first once a day and then once a week. he considered, however, that in spite of the vdz treatment, the applicant’s health was not satisfactory and that even though he kept refusing to undergo an operation, there was no other option, and the applicant was advised to consider it again. between 15 november and 4 december 2017 the applicant was hospitalised again because his ulcerative colitis had worsened. he had undergone surgery to his left leg in 2001, had broken a thighbone in 2003, and both legs were “extremely deformed” (izrazito deformisana) owing to shotgun injuries (prostrelne rane) and a car accident, which would appear to have taken place in 2005. on 27 july 2015 the applicant requested that he be allowed the said rehabilitation treatment. the high court approved the request on 30 july 2015, noting that the exact dates of the treatment would be agreed directly between the iecs and the applicant. between 4 september 2015 and 9 february 2016 the high court informed the iecs on several occasions that the costs of the applicant’s medical treatment, including for vdz, and the costs of security guards at the igalo institute, would be covered by the high court upon presentation of the relevant reimbursement requests (po podnošenju zahtjeva za naknadu troškova), pursuant to article 226 §§ 2(5) and 4 of the ccp. he prescribed treatment and recommended another check-up in a month. it would appear from the case file that there have been no further check-ups. the conditions in which the applicant was detained were described as unfavourable for recuperation.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in novi sad. on 1 june 2004 the applicant instituted civil proceedings seeking reimbursement for income she had lost because of a car accident. on 25 february 2008 the novi sad court of first instance delivered a judgment partly in favour of the applicant and ordered the defendant to pay her a certain amount in that respect. on 30 october 2008 the novi sad district court partly quashed the judgment of 25 february 2008 and remitted the case, upholding the remainder of the judgment. on 2 july 2010 the novi sad court of first instance rejected the applicant’s claim in the remitted part. on 30 january 2012 the novi sad court of appeal partly upheld the judgment of 2 july 2010 and partly reversed it granting certain applicant’s claims. on 5 february 2015 the constitutional court rejected the applicant’s complaint about the length of those proceedings, taking into consideration that the civil courts had rendered four judgments at two instances and that the proceedings had been complex.
on 29 may 2007 he arrived to serve a life sentence at correctional colony no. 9 had been repaired; the ventilation and heating systems had been operating properly; and the food and soap supply had been in compliance with domestic standards. the wall plaster had been falling off in cell no. 10 were in a bad condition and that there had been a delay in conducting rodent-control measures in the facility. m respectively and had been shared by four prisoners. in his reply to the government’s observations, the applicant submitted written statements by two prisoners who had been held in prison no. the applicant furthermore contested the objectiveness of the information provided by the prison governor and stated that the government’s submissions did not exclude the possibility that, before the repair works had been completed at the end of 2010, there had been smaller rooms in the facility in which he could have been held (and which following the reconstruction had been merged to create a bigger room). 39 in may 2007 the applicant underwent a medical examination and was found to be healthy. according to the synopsis of the applicant’s treatment history provided to the court by the government, the applicant was seen by a tb-specialist (only once, according to the applicant) and prescribed standard treatment in the form of a combination of “first-line” anti-tb antibiotics (streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol), vitamins, hepatoprotectors, and an appropriate diet. monitoring tests (sputum, urine and blood tests and x-rays) were performed on a number of occasions. on four occasions (on 9 october 2008, 24 april and 22 december 2009 and 14 april 2010) the administration of prison no. he also stated that letters from him to the court dated 29 may 2008, 14 december 2009 and 14 june 2011 had likewise not been dispatched by the prison authorities and that on several occasions the prison staff had warned him that his letters would not leave the prison if he continued to complain about the conditions of his detention and had threatened him for having lodged an application with the court. however, the latter document had been missing from the envelope received by his representative. 39 registers of incoming and outgoing mail submitted by the government show that in the period from june 2007 until march 2013 the applicant sent and received more than three hundred letters, including to and from various public entities – most notably the public prosecution office, the ombudsperson and the court. 39 postal service, never arrived at the court.
the applicants were born in 1979 and 1983 respectively. on 24 march 2000 the applicants got married. on 16 february 2001 the first applicant was found guilty of a number of criminal offences and was sentenced to life imprisonment. the applicants requested that the prison administration allow them a long-term family visit on many occasions, in particular, in 2006. in april 2007 the applicants lodged an administrative claim against the state department for enforcement of sentences seeking an entitlement to a long-term conjugal visit every three months. they submitted that they were willing to have a common child and that a denial of that right to them was unlawful and arbitrary. the courts, on three levels of jurisdiction, rejected that claim as not based on law. the final decision of the higher administrative court was delivered on 8 december 2009. the applicants got divorced on an unspecified date. as indicated in the information note issued on 24 june 2016 by the administration of dnipropetrovsk prison no. more specifically, on 10 december 2003 and 10 june 2004 he had short-term visits from the second applicant, as well as his mother and sister. the second applicant did not pay him visits thereafter. during the period from 2004 to 2012 the first applicant had regular short-term visits from his mother, sister and some other persons. since then he had regular short-term visits from ms l. on 11 july 2014 the first applicant was allowed for the first time a long-term family visit, which was from his sister. subsequently, they enjoyed long-term conjugal visits about every three months.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in nizhniy novgorod. officer m., who together with his partner k. had just returned from patrol duty, got annoyed at the disruption, pushed mr anoshin away from the door and demanded that he calm down. mr anoshin fell on the bed and his head slammed against the wall. he then got to his feet and stepped towards the officer. m. laid mr anoshin down on the bed, and walked out. on 3 august 2002 the prosecutor’s office of the sovietsky district opened a criminal investigation into the death. the investigation lasted four years and was handled in turn by at least six different investigators. they inspected the scene, conducted witness interviews, commissioned forensic reports, and staged reconstructions. the centre staff initially testified that they had found the applicant’s brother unwell in his bed, but then changed their story, saying that they had seen him hang himself using a bed sheet tied to the bars of his cell window. however, the investigation was put on hold thirteen times because no credible suspect had been identified. in march 2006 m. was interviewed for the first time. by august 2006 the case against him had gone to trial. at the trial, m. was directly incriminated by an., on 14 november 2008 the nizhniy novgorod regional court upheld the sentence. the applicant and three of her brother’s four children each claimed from the state 3,000,000 russian roubles (rub – approximately 69,000 euros (eur)) for emotional distress caused by the crime.
the applicant was born in 1969 and is currently serving a prison sentence. physically assaulted him and subjected him to electric shocks in a gym. according to the report on the arrest, signed by the head of division no. they arrested four individuals (including the applicant), who all resisted arrest. they used physical force and special devices (handcuffs). from the organised crime unit stated that, after the applicant’s arrest in the early hours of 13 may 2006, he had searched him in the presence of attesting witnesses. did not know whether the applicant had been subjected to any ill‑treatment by the police officers of the zheleznodorozhnyy police station. (b)  judicial review of the investigators’ decisions 25. on 16 december 2008 the same court dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the refusal of 10 june 2008, holding that it was lawful and well-grounded. on 5 february 2009 the ryazan regional court fully endorsed that decision on appeal. on 26 may 2006 a copy of the applicant’s complaint of ill-treatment was forwarded to the sovetskiy district prosecutor’s office of ryazan for a separate inquiry in relation to the police officers of the organised crime unit. on 2 june 2006 and 24 february 2009 respectively, in accordance with article 24 § 1 (1) of the ccrp, officials at the sovetskiy prosecutor’s office and moskovskiy inter-district investigation unit of the investigative committee for ryazan issued refusals to initiate criminal proceedings against the police officers as none of the elements of crimes under articles 285 and 286 of the criminal code (abuse of powers) were present in respect of their actions. on 25 december 2008 the first refusal was overruled by the higher authority within the investigative committee as unsubstantiated, and the investigation authorities were ordered to carry out an additional inquiry. the investigation authority was ordered to rectify those deficiencies. on 14 may 2008 the same court ruled that the applicant’s appeal against the investigator’s refusal of 12 april 2007 should not be examined, and terminated the proceedings on the grounds that on 14 may 2008 the investigative committee had already overruled it.
the applicant was born in 1985 and is currently detained in st petersburg. he was suspected of involvement in large-scale drug dealing. he remained in custody pending the investigation and trial. on 6 october 2011 the sovetskiy district court of kazan (“the district court”) received the case file and set the trial date for 19 october 2011. on 19 march 2012 the district court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to nine and a half years’ imprisonment. during the trial, which consisted of sixteen hearings, the applicant was confined in a metal cage in the courtroom. there was no desk inside the cage, only a wooden bench, which made it impossible for him to take notes during the hearings. armed security guards remained beside the cage dock. the applicant’s lawyer could only approach him with the court’s permission. any conversations between them had to take place in the presence of the guards. on 10 august 2012 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the applicant’s conviction on appeal. the applicant participated in the hearing by videoconference. he was placed behind a floor-to-ceiling metal partition on the premises of the remand prison sizo-3 of the tatarstan republic where he was detained and communicated with the judges via a video link.
the applicants were born in 1971, 1975, 1974 and 1981 respectively and are detained in marijampolė and kybartai correctional facilities. from then on, the applicant’s detention was regularly extended for three months. on 30 june 2014 the bill of indictment was drawn up. on 10 july 2014 the vilnius regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. prolonged detention could only be possible in exceptional cases when other less restrictive measures were not enough. on 3 november 2016 the klaipėda regional court extended the applicant’s detention for a further three months. on 12 june 2017 the court of appeal disagreed with the arguments of the applicant’s lawyer that examination of the criminal case had become protracted because of the ineffective organisation of the trial court’s work. on 30 august 2017 the court of appeal found that although for thirty-three months in total there had been no hearings, the breaks had taken place for reasons unconnected with the work of the courts, and it had not been possible to speed up the proceedings. finally, the court held that the examination of the evidence in the criminal case was now complete, and that the case was at the stage of closing statements, however, new circumstances could be revealed at that stage and there was a necessity to further extend the applicant’s detention. on 8 may 2017 the applicant lodged a claim before the vilnius regional administrative court, raising, among other issues, the complaint that he could not have long-stay visits while detained in lukiškės remand prison between 1 january 2016 and 26 september 2016. during the applicant’s detention in šiauliai remand prison, between 9 august 2016 and 1 january 2017 he was granted seventy-six short visits. (b)  the applicant’s detention during his trial 26. as mentioned by the other courts, the applicant was accused of setting up a criminal organisation using firearms that had committed offences designated as both very serious and serious within the territories of several states. on 22 july 2016 the klaipėda regional court approved an application by the applicant for a variation in the restrictive measure regime. on 11 january, 25 february, 13 april, 18 may, 18 july and 17 october 2017 the applicant was allowed to receive long-stay visits from his wife.
the applicant was born in 1973 and is currently living in armenia. on 31 march 2011, however, the attorney general decided to discontinue the criminal proceedings and gave instructions for the applicant to be deported. on 21 september 2011 the applicant was transferred to the detention facility at paphos police station. 153(i)/2011 had been made after the expiration of the six-month period. 163(i)/of 2005 – see seagal, cited above, § 99). on 28 december 2011 the applicant brought a recourse (no. by a letter dated 15 march 2012 the applicant’s representative complained to the minister of the int+erior about the applicant’s detention and requested that the applicant’s detention order be reviewed, in accordance with section 18 πστ(4) of the aliens and immigration law (see paragraph 101 below). on 25 may 2012 the minister of the interior reviewed the applicant’s detention and decided on its continuation for another six months as the applicant did not have travel documents and continued to refuse to visit the iranian embassy in order to secure the issuance of a passport to him, thus hampering the deportation process. the applicant submitted that during his detention in the various police stations he had felt disoriented in terms of space and time. the sanitary facilities had been poor: the detention facility had only had a few toilets and showers, which had not been properly cleaned or disinfected. he had informed a local non-governmental organisation, kisa, about one of these incidents; kisa had then reported it to the commissioner for administration of the republic of cyprus (“the ombudsman”), resulting in a visit to the station by her office (see paragraph 120 below). detainees had also been able to exercise in the common area. there had been no specific schedule for exercise and on some days detainees had not exercised at all and had remained in their cells. the station’s detention facility had had an open courtyard where the applicant had been allowed to move around and exercise freely during the day, given his status as a long-term immigration detainee. the sanitary facilities had been outside the cell and common to all detainees.
the applicant was born in 1976 and is currently serving a prison sentence. on 14 march 2007 criminal proceedings were initiated into the disappearance of a.s. next day he was taken to irkutsk by aeroplane. he was placed in a room on the third floor, where seven police officers were waiting. he was kicked in the chest, punched in the ears and given electric shocks. according to a record of the applicant’s arrest for murder signed by the applicant in the absence of a lawyer, it was drawn up at 12.30 a.m. on 10 april 2007 by investigator a.m. from the sverdlovskiy district prosecutor’s office of irkutsk. on the same day the applicant was placed in a pre-trial detention facility in irkutsk (iz 38/1/2). according to a certificate signed by the ivs doctor, the applicant was examined on 11 april 2007 and had bruises in the area of the left collarbone, left shoulder and left lumbar region, and abrasions in the area of the elbow joints, both hands and wrists. the certificate referred to a home accident without any further details. he concluded that no criminal proceedings should be initiated pursuant to article 24 § 1 (5) of the ccrp since no such complaint had been lodged by the applicant. on 28 april 2010 the irkutsk regional court received the applicant’s appeal dated 16 april 2010 against the refusal to institute criminal proceedings of 12 march 2008. in his appeal the applicant stated that his complaint about the police ill-treatment dated 5 may 2007 had been dispatched by the pre-trial detention facility on 7 may 2007. at his trial, the applicant pleaded guilty in part. on 11 december 2008 the supreme court of russia partly modified this judgment on appeal and sentenced the applicant to eighteen years’ and six months’ imprisonment. the appellate court relied on the refusal to open a criminal case of 12 march 2008, noting the applicant’s statements that the injuries on the wrists had been caused as a result of the use of handcuffs to suppress the applicant’s resistance.
the first applicant (ms makarova) was born in 1989 and lived in moscow. the second applicant (ms astakhova) was born in 1985 and lives in mytishchi, moscow region. the third applicant (ms fokht‑babushkina) was born in 1994 and lives in moscow. on 14 december 2012 the state duma, the lower house of the federal assembly of russia, adopted at first reading a draft law which, in particular, prohibited the adoption of children of russian nationality by citizens of the united states of america. on 17 december 2012 the official daily newspaper rossiyskaya gazeta announced that the second reading of the draft law was scheduled for 19 december 2012. 57818/09 and 14 others, §§ 206-15, 7 february 2017). according to the second and third applicants, after their solo demonstrations they left the area, showing their posters to journalists at their request. at that point, they were arrested by the police and taken to the tverskoy district police station. according to the government, at 10 a.m. on 19 december 2012 all of the applicants took part in a group “picket” (пикет) held without prior notification of the authorities. on 15 january 2013 the justice of the peace of circuit no. 369 of the tverskoy district of moscow found the first applicant guilty under article 20.2 § 2 of the cao and sentenced her to a fine of 20,000 russian roubles (rub; about 495 euros (eur) at the time). on 14 february 2013 the tverskoy district court of moscow upheld the judgment on appeal. in its appeal decision the appellate court considered that the third applicant’s guilt had been proved by the adverse evidence, such as the administrative-offence record, the escort procedure record and testimonies. on 1 and 5 july 2013 the moscow city court examined supervisory review complaints lodged by the second and third applicants. their fines were reduced to rub 10,000 (about eur 232 at the time) each.
the applicant was born in 1983 and is detained in rzekuń. the applicant was detained in płock prison from 26 march to 29 august 2009 (five months and four days). the applicant submitted that during his detention in płock prison he had been held in overcrowded cells. the ventilation and the sanitary conditions in these cells were inadequate. the applicant had one shower per week and one hour’s outdoor exercise per day. he applied to be exempted from court fees. on 18 february 2011 the court allowed this application. between 21 january and 31 march 2011 the applicant submitted several requests for evidence and asked to attend the court’s hearings. on 11 march 2011 the płock district court informed the applicant that he would not be transported to the hearing, and instructed him about the formal requirements in respect of requests for evidence, among other things that such requests should be lodged with the court in two copies. the applicant was not present at the court hearing on 23 march 2011. on 17 july 2012 the court rejected the applicant’s appeal. on 22 august 2012 the court requested from the applicant a copy of his interlocutory appeal. on 20 september 2012 the applicant submitted an interlocutory appeal against the decision of 13 september 2012, arguing as follows:“i should have been informed in advance that the court would require me to provide copies of pleadings. if the court had sent me the original pleading i could have copied it and sent it back. on 24 january 2013 the court rejected the applicant’s interlocutory appeal.
the applicant was born in 1975 and, as can be seen from the case materials, is currently serving a sentence in a penal institution (see paragraph 20 below). on 24 may 1996 the applicant was convicted of aggravated double murder and other offences. he was sentenced to the death penalty, which was subsequently commuted to twenty years’ imprisonment in 1997 (“the first conviction”). he was sentenced to four years and six months’ imprisonment (“the second conviction”). it was due to expire on 29 september 2015. the amended legislation did not explicitly address the question of its retroactive effect (see paragraph 21 below). appellate proceedings concerning the second conviction were still pending when the supreme court adopted the two decisions. on 3 december 2008, without taking note of the supreme court decisions of 20 april 2007 and 20 february 2008 (see paragraphs 10-11 above), the tbilisi court of appeal upheld the applicant’s second conviction and ruled that he had to serve a cumulative sentence of thirteen years and six months which had started to run on 29 march 2002 which was again, the date of the commission of the second offence. that sentence would have expired on 29 september 2015. relying on article 615 of the code of criminal procedure (“the ccp” – see paragraph 24 below), the decision corrected the starting date of the cumulative sentence to 12 april 2006 – the date on which the first-instance court’s decision concerning the second conviction had been adopted. based on that new starting date, the applicant’s sentence was due to expire on 12 october 2019. that term was due to expire on 12 april 2013. he submitted that the rectified appellate decision had been contrary to the final decision of the supreme court dated 20 february 2008 which had set a different starting date for his cumulative sentence, and would have resulted in a release date of 29 september 2010. on 24 april 2009 the head of the registry of the chamber of criminal cases of the supreme court replied to the applicant, stating that the rectified appellate decision of 3 april 2009 had constituted an integral part of the appellate judgment of 3 december 2008. as the applicant’s submissions before the court show, on 6 february 2017 he was arrested on charges of aggravated fraud and repeated forgery of official documents.
the applicant was born in 1978 and was at the time of the introduction of the application detained at the safi detention centre. on 10 september 2016 the applicant, a refugee from ivory coast who claimed to have previously obtained asylum in armenia, left russia and arrived in malta by plane. he claimed that he had reached malta from armenia, where he had lived as a refugee prior to his arrival in malta. the applicant was found carrying false italian identification documents and, according to the government, when questioned, he informed the police that he had obtained the documents from a friend in italy and that his intention was to travel to italy by transiting via malta. he was informed that he had the right to appeal this decision before the immigration appeals board (hereinafter “the board”) within three days. he was informed that he was entitled to free legal assistance. the applicant was accompanied to safi barracks detention centre, where he was detained. on 20 september 2016 the applicant applied for international protection and was formally registered as an asylum‑seeker. furthermore, the board stressed that since its members were merely part-time employees meeting once a week and lacking administrative support while being responsible for a vast array of immigration related appeals, it was simply unable to meets its legal obligation and determine the lawfulness of his detention on time. during the hearing the applicant’s representative repeatedly requested the malta police force’s representative and the chairperson of the board to specify the grounds on which he was being detained. the applicant’s representative made written and oral submissions to the board. he had not made any attempt to conceal any information and had acted with honesty, openness and transparency towards the authorities. in his opinion the immigration police had failed to demonstrate that without the applicant’s detention it would have been impossible for them to determine any elements on the basis of his asylum application. 420.06, as such detention would then no longer be reasonable. the applicant was released from immigrant detention on 8 november 2016, subject to reporting at the police station daily.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in wrocław. the applicant was detained in wrocław remand centre during various periods between 1991 and 2014, including from 24 june 2009 to 2 october 2010. he was released from detention on 8 july 2017. on 6 may 2011 the court exempted the applicant from the court fees and dismissed his application for legal aid. the applicant did not challenge that decision. on 10 october 2012 the applicant lodged with the court a letter entitled “application: refers to an appeal against the judgment of the wrocław‑śródmieście district court of 5 october 2012” which the court treated as an appeal. on an unspecified date the applicant applied for legal aid. on 26 october 2012 the wrocław‑śródmieście district court rejected the applicant’s request on the same grounds as previously (see paragraph 10 above). if the party does not ask for the reasoned judgment, the appeal is to be submitted directly within 21 days of the service of the judgment. therefore, on 6 february 2013 the court issued an order and instructed the applicant to comply with the formal requirements of his appeal by submitting a copy thereof within seven days of the service of the court order. the order was served on 14 february 2013. he added that he had not been aware that he should have submitted his appeal in two copies. on 30 march 2013 the applicant appealed against that decision. on 21 june 2013 the wrocław regional court dismissed the applicant’s interlocutory appeal, holding that the applicant, who had started a civil action and knew that he was deprived of his liberty, could justifiably be expected to keep copies of all letters he sent to the court, especially since he had been informed on 28 august 2012 that all letters to the court should be submitted in two copies. additionally, after the judgment had been issued the applicant was informed about the means and procedure of submitting appeals.
on 30 may 2012 the applicant was arrested and detained in connection with a suspicion of making two threats by telephone against certain m.s. in the course of the investigation, the zagreb municipal state attorney’s office (općinsko državni odvjetništvo u zagrebu) commissioned a psychiatric expert report on the applicant’s mental health at the time of the offence, including, if appropriate, the existence of a need for his psychiatric internment. on 28 june 2012 the psychiatric expert, e.s., she found that he was incapable of understanding and controlling his actions and that he posed a danger to others, which warranted his psychiatric internment. produced a supplement to her report, which she prepared with a psychologist. she explained that she had obtained the applicant’s medical record from his general practitioner, v.p., and several other witnesses, including his neighbours, be heard. he said they could all give evidence as to his mental state. he also argued that he had had previous conflicts with the victims and asked that the police be requested to submit relevant information about those incidents. according to which he suffered from chronic stress and maladaptation to the environment. and that they had been produced by a doctor whom the applicant had paid privately. he pointed out that his psychiatrist v.g., on 9 july 2013 the zagreb county court dismissed the applicant’s appeal on the grounds that all the relevant facts had been correctly established. the zagreb municipal criminal court judgment thereby became final. on 21 october 2013 a judge of the zagreb county court ordered that the applicant be sent to the psychiatric hospital.
the applicant was born in 1951 and is currently detained in sofia prison. on 17 december 2016 the applicant took a flight from kutaisi, georgia, to sofia, bulgaria. when trying to pass through the passport control at sofia airport, he was arrested pursuant to a red notice issued by the national central bureau of interpol for iran on 14 september 2016. the next day, 18 december 2016, the national central bureau of interpol for iran confirmed that the applicant was still being sought and sent to the bulgarian authorities a copy, in persian, of the warrant for his arrest. the same day the bulgarian prosecuting authorities detained the applicant for seventy-two hours. on 21 december 2016 they asked the sofia city court to place him in detention for up to forty days pending receipt of a formal extradition request by the iranian authorities. they have no laws and judges, but decide as they please. however, when the appeal was heard by the sofia court of appeal on 27 december 2016, the applicant said that he had not instructed the court-appointed counsel to lodge it and wished to be represented by counsel of his own choice. in view of the applicant’s statement, the court discontinued the appeal proceedings. the request stated that the act allegedly committed by him constituted an offence under article 656 § 4 of the iranian penal code (see paragraphs 38-40 below), and specified that according to the text of that provision the punishment envisaged under it was six months’ to three years’ imprisonment. the prosecution also asked the court to keep the applicant in detention until the conclusion of the extradition proceedings. in his closing statement on 12 april 2017 counsel for the applicant argued that the extradition request, even as supplemented later, failed in various ways to comply with the formal requirements. the same day the sofia city court allowed the request for the applicant’s extradition to iran. in particular, iranian law only envisaged imprisonment in respect of the alleged offence. he reiterated that the applicant had already left tehran at the time when the alleged offence had been committed.
the russian federal prison service (“the fsin”) transports prisoners across its network of nearly 300 remand prisons and equivalent facilities, eight prisons for convicted offenders, and more than 800 correctional facilities and penal settlements (колония-поселение). a large compartment is the same size as a standard russian passenger compartment designed for four people. the “bridge” bunk makes it impossible to stand upright in the compartment. they have a van chassis, on which a solid metal body is mounted. multi-prisoner cells are 1.15 to 1.20 metres deep. in august 2009, the vorkuta town court amended his sentence, changing the type of facility to a penal settlement. the nearest city was yemva, which is located some 900 kilometres away from vorkuta. the distance was sixteen kilometres and the travel time thirty-five minutes. upon arriving at ussuriysk station, the railway carriage was left overnight on a siding with the prisoners locked inside the compartment without access to water or a toilet. on 12 april 2011 the primorskiy regional prosecutor’s office replied that they had questioned the guards who had been on duty on 21 and 22 february and established that the number of prisoners in the compartment had not exceeded the norm. the return journey began at 5 p.m. on 24 november 2012, when mr vasilyev and thirteen other prisoners were taken to the railway station in a kamaz prison van. mr tomov (for his personal details see paragraph 19 above), mr nikolay konstantinovich roshka, born in 1965 in moldova, and mr nikita valeryevich barinov, born in 1990 in syktyvkar, were in transit between the iz-11/1 remand prison in syktyvkar and the ik‑23 high‑security penal facility in the murmansk region. from 3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on 18 december 2015 the three applicants and five other people were placed in a multi-prisoner cell of a kamaz prison van and taken to syktyvkar railway station. mr rakov challenged point 167 of the conveyance instruction (see paragraph 67 below), claiming that the excessively high normative capacity of railway carriages led to overcrowding and deprived prisoners of a proper night’s rest. on 27 december 2011 the appeals panel of the supreme court rejected the appeal in a summary fashion.
the first applicant has been or is a guardian (a foster parent) of the second to eighth applicants. at birth r. was diagnosed with several serious health conditions. on 23 november 2001 the trusovskiy district council in astrakhan appointed the first applicant to act as r.’s guardian. on 11 november 2008 the trusovskiy district court of astrakhan (“the district court”) dismissed the first applicant’s claim. on an unspecified date, r.’s parents brought a claim against the first applicant. on 10 june 2009 the regional court upheld the first-instance judgment on appeal. the report furthermore stated that, in view of r.’s special condition and the considerable delay in his physical and psychological development, his interaction with the adults was very limited; however, the parents managed to establish tactile and emotional contact with him. overall, in so far as his conditions made it possible to ascertain, the child felt psychologically comfortable and calm in the presence of his parents. in the proceedings before the court, the childcare authority expressed a generally favourable opinion regarding r.’s return to his biological parents, but pointed out that, in view of r.’s state of health, his integration into his family should be gradual. however, in the court’s view, those statements did not show that r.’s parents were unable to take good care of the boy, nor that in view of r.’s physical and psychological condition he should continue living with the first applicant. the child had suffered from a serious congenital illness and had spent considerable time in hospital. the child needed constant appropriate care and supervision rather than mere medical treatment. when with his parents, [r.] felt calm and comfortable. they do not have a history of psychiatric diseases or criminal records. the child understood that his mother and father were his parents, in so far as his psychological development allowed it.
the applicants are eight russian nationals whose particulars are listed in the appendix. the government explained, in additional observations of 18 april 2012, that there were a number of pieces of evidence indicating that between 2004 and june 2010 mr ali t. had been in regular contact with his relatives in nasyr-kort. therefore, there are sufficient grounds to believe that at the address where a.m.[t.] the second and third applicants were ordered into a minibus, where they were questioned about their brother, mr ali t. other applicants, their neighbours and vehicles were moved a safe distance from the house. at 3.35 p.m. a senior investigator from the federal security service of russia (“the fsb”) drew up a search report. during the interrogation of the second and third applicants, the armed men had ordered the inhabitants of the neighbouring houses to move as far away as possible because the servicemen had been planning to blow up the house. the third applicant was informed of that decision by letters of 8 and 18 april, and 5 may 2011, indicating a possibility to appeal. a five-page summary of the decision, forwarded to the third applicant on the same day, indicated that the following procedural measures had been taken: on 14 november 2011 a military investigator had questioned the bomb-disposal expert and the fsb investigator who had conducted the search of the premises. only one ied had been found and recorded in the site inspection report. the bomb-disposal expert stated that he had taken part in the search and found an ied made out of a 125 mm artillery shell and a detonating device, wrapped up in black cellophane and connected to the ied with wire. that had resulted in an explosion, the destruction of the building and a fire. the search report of 3 march 2011 indicated that the explosives expert had found an ied in the cellar of one of the dwellings. the applicants never appealed against it. it does not appear that the applicants maintained any further contact with the investigation. on 27 june 2011 the magas district court held a hearing.
the applicant was born in 1956 and was convicted of attempting to undermine the constitutional order and sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. on an unspecified date, the applicant’s lawyer sent a package by post to the applicant. he submitted that he had asked his lawyer to bring those books and magazines in question simply because he had wanted to read them. he submitted that it had been the prison administration which had told his lawyer that they could not be brought in person and had therefore to be sent by post. on 30 september 2005, the edirne assize court dismissed the applicant’s objections on the basis of the case file, holding that the decision of the edirne enforcement court had been in accordance with law and procedure. in the meantime, that is to say on 16 september 2005, the prison administration lodged another request with the public prosecutor in relation to the package sent by the applicant’s lawyer. the decision did not specify how long the restriction was to remain in force. the applicant did not request that the examination of his case be carried out by holding a hearing. on 29 may 2008 the applicant lodged an application with the edirne enforcement court for the restriction on the conversations between him and his lawyer to be lifted. on 6 december 2010 the edirne enforcement court dismissed the applicant’s application for a hearing, holding that the new amendments to the procedure concerned only the examination of objections against disciplinary sanctions, so that in so far as the restriction of 23 september 2005 had not been a disciplinary sanction, no hearing could be held in respect of that complaint. an appeal against that decision by the applicant was dismissed on 24 august 2011. at time of the adoption of this judgment, the restriction on the applicant’s right to confıdential communications with his lawyer remains in place. on 17 february 2006 the applicant lodged an application with the court, complaining about the edirne enforcement court’s decision of 25 august 2005. on 8 december 2015 the court delivered an inadmissibility decision on account of non-exhaustion of domestic remedies and held that the applicant had to make use of the new domestic remedy established by law no. 6384 (see altay and others v. turkey (dec.),
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in moscow. he is a political activist, opposition leader, anti-corruption campaigner and popular blogger. 74568/12, §§ 7-65, echr 2016 (extracts)). on 25 april 2012 the investigation committee, on the direct order of mr bastrykin, instituted criminal proceedings for embezzlement against the applicant (see navalnyy and ofitserov, cited above, hereinafter “the kirovles case”). on 5 july 2012 mr bastrykin made a public statement expressing his determination to have the applicant prosecuted. on 26 july 2012 the applicant published an article about mr bastrykin, alleging in particular that his business activities and residence status in the czech republic were incompatible with the office he held, under the domestic law (ibid., §§ on 14 january 2014 the investigation committee rejected a new request from the applicant for permission to travel to moscow region. the applicant did not appeal against the extension. on 28 april 2014 the zamoskvoretskiy district court remitted the applicant’s case for further investigation, a decision which was upheld by the moscow city court on 18 june 2014. it rejected a request from the applicant to be allowed daily walks. the applicant appealed against the extension of his house arrest on 31 december 2014. on 5 january 2015 the applicant issued a public statement that he refused to comply with the terms of his house arrest, citing in particular the fact that he had not been served with a written extension order, even though five days had elapsed since the court’s decision. the applicant illustrated his statement with a photograph of his tracking bracelet having been cut open. no one stopped him or sanctioned him when he left his flat to go to his office. on 14 january 2015 the zamoskvoretskiy district court refused to examine the applicant’s complaint about the extension of his house arrest on 30 december 2014 on the grounds that the measure had been ordered in the judgment on the merits of the criminal case and had not been a procedural decision concerning pre-trial issues.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in ljubljana. they found the contact unpleasant and refused it. relying on the opinion of dr t. (see paragraph 16 above), the court held that the children had refused contact with the applicant and that this was not the result of the manipulation of m. but originated in their negative experiences with the contact sessions in the past. on 20 november 2008 the applicant and m. were invited to a meeting at the centre to discuss and reach an agreement on how the contact sessions would work and be organised under the centre’s supervision. on 28 april 2009, after conducting an interview with the children, the centre informed the applicant that a contact session scheduled for 29 april 2009 had been cancelled on the basis of section 119 of the marriage and family relations act (see paragraph 45 below) because it would be a serious psychological burden for the children. after every session the centre’s caseworkers talked to the children and conducted a review (evalvacija) of contact with the parents. the activities of the centre had been aimed at suspending contact instead of actively establishing it with the help of an expert. he argued that the children had been put under systematic pressure by m. and, indirectly, the centre. moreover, the centre had been biased in its submissions and the only impartial opinion − on which the court should base its decision − was that of the expert psychiatrist, dr t. in the course of the proceedings the applicant also requested that the court issue an interim decision ordering m. to attend family therapy with him with a view to establishing communication between them. on 16 april 2009 the ljubljana higher court allowed the appeal and remitted the case to the first-instance court. dr t. conducted interviews with each child and the parents. it noted in this connection that m. had not agreed to it and that the children had clearly refused any cooperation with their father during the contact sessions and were seriously distressed. the latter was crucial for deciding that they should not be forced in any further proceedings for the establishment of contact. the applicant appealed, maintaining, inter alia, that the solution for re-establishing contact between him and the children, as advised by dr t., was family therapy, initially with the parents alone and later with the children, which had been refused by m. he disagreed with the court’s opinion that the reasons resulting in the discontinuation of contact were no longer relevant and pointed out that the children’s alienation from him was the result of wrong decisions taken by the administrative authorities and wrong assessment of the evidence by the court. on 20 may 2009 the inspector to whom the case had been allocated (hereinafter “the inspector”) asked the centre to submit a written report and copies of the applicant’s family files.
the applicant, mr aleksey alekseyevich malyy, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1972 and is currently serving a sentence of life imprisonment. he was detained for over three months and confessed to having killed his parents. however, eventually he retracted that confession as made under duress. on 18 january 2005, shortly before an identification parade in which the security guard of one of the jewellery stores was to recognise the perpetrators, the applicant changed his mind and submitted that he did not need legal representation. the applicant did not comment on the above-mentioned record. on the same day he was transferred to the dnipropetrovsk temporary detention facility (“the dnipropetrovsk itt”). before the beginning of that investigative measure, he had stated that he did not need legal assistance given that he maintained his confession and wanted to show his remorse. later the same day k., too, wrote “a statement of surrender to the police” in respect of the robbery and murder of mr and ms s., in which he confirmed to the same investigator the account of the events given in the applicant’s related confession (see paragraph 20 above). nor is there any information or documents indicating when the lawyer started representing him in practice. it can only be seen that its text is limited to one brief paragraph. k. also retracted his earlier statement on that charge in which he had incriminated the applicant, as having been obtained under duress. the applicant also alleged that on 28 january 2005 he had been taken to the dnipropetrovsk region criminal investigation department, where the police had ill-treated him with a view to extracting his confession to the aggravated murder of mr and ms s. the applicant provided the following account. however, as noted by the head of the dnipropetrovsk region criminal investigation department in his letter of 14 may 2007 sent in reply to an enquiry from the applicant, on 28 january 2005 the applicant had indeed been on the premises of that department, but no investigative measures had been carried out on that date. the cell lacked basic furniture and items such as a cupboard, a mirror or a rubbish bin. 01, 1k, 02, 03, 04, 4k, 05, 06 and 6k (designated for two inmates).
the applicant was born in 1964 and lives in munich. in 2005 the applicant brought an action against dtag, claiming that as a result of the excessive prices paid by the t.ag, he and mr w. had had to reduce their shares in the company before its stock market launch. on 28 may 2013 the regional court dismissed the claim. in the same hearing the applicant called for the proceedings to be suspended and a preliminary ruling from the cjeu to be obtained. on 2 july 2014 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal. it also referred to the relevant case-law of the federal court of justice. there is no need to clarify the legal question raised, since there are no doubts concerning the scope and interpretation of those legal provisions. the applicant filed a complaint against the refusal of leave to appeal on points of law. in case 1 bvr 1320/14, however, the constitutional court found a violation of the right to a decision by the legally competent court (recht auf den gesetzlichen richter) because the federal court of justice had rejected a complaint against the refusal of leave to appeal on points of law and had not provided any reasoning. v. ministry of health (c‑283/81, judgment of 6 october 1982, ecli:eu:c:1982:335, § 21) that:“... a court or tribunal against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law is required, where a question of community law is raised before it, to comply with its obligation to bring the matter before the court [of justice], unless it has established that the question raised is irrelevant or that the community provision in question has already been interpreted by the court or that the correct application of community law is so obvious as to leave no scope for any reasonable doubt. thus, uncertainty as to the interpretation of the law applicable, including community law, may give rise to review, at last instance, by the supreme court. this judgment was referred to in a later judgment of the cjeu (cartesio oktató és szolgáltató bt, c-210/06, 16 december 2008, ecli:eu:c:2008:723), in which it held:“76. the court has already held that decisions of a national appellate court which can be challenged by the parties before a supreme court are not decisions of ‘a court or tribunal of a member state against whose decisions there is no judicial remedy under national law’ within the meaning of the third paragraph of article 267. the fact that the examination of the merits of such challenges is conditional upon a preliminary declaration of admissibility by the supreme court does not have the effect of depriving the parties of a judicial remedy (lyckeskog, paragraph 16). as regards the initiation of preliminary ruling proceedings, the cjeu stated in the case of györgy katz v. istván roland sós (c-404/07, 9 october 2008, ecli:eu:c:2008:553):“37. ...
the applicant was born in 1978 and lives in druskininkai. after that, he was hospitalised between 7 and 18 january 2012. on 5 january 2012 a prie‑trial investigation was opened regarding destruction of property and serious health impairment caused by negligence. on 14 august 2012 the experts received a task to answer two questions: where did the fire start and what was the reason of the fire. it also noted that eight persons had been taken to a hospital and 217 persons had been evacuated. he and other inmates had wet towels and put them on their faces. he remembered only that a firefighter had opened the doors of the cell and taken him by his hand, but then the applicant had fainted and later woken up in the hospital (see paragraph 13 below). the following investigative actions had been performed: the scene of the accident had been examined; the electrics had been inspected; various reports had been received; several witnesses had been questioned; and medical examinations of the victims had been carried out. the transcripts of the surveillance cameras show that one of the officers smelled smoke at 7.01 a.m. at 7.25 a.m. the officers poured water down the ventilation chamber. in november 2012 the applicant lodged a complaint with the vilnius regional administrative court, requesting compensation in respect of non‑pecuniary damage for overcrowding, lack of proper separation between sanitary facilities and the cell, insufficient ventilation in lukiškės remand prison from 7 june 2011 until 25 may 2012 and in respect of the alleged inadequate actions of the prison authorities during the fire in that institution on 5 january 2012. during the hearing, the applicant submitted that the inmates had been told to open the windows before the evacuation. the prison officers had also been given instructions on what actions to take. the medical staff distributed the inmates according to their condition and the ones who had been severely injured had been transferred to the hospital. the applicant had stated that he had spent approximately ninety minutes in a cell full of smoke. the applicant and the authorities appealed.
the applicant, editorial board of grivna newspaper, is a ukrainian single shareholder company which has its registered offices in kherson. in 2006 the newspaper published two articles containing negative statements about mr i., who from 1996 to 2012 was president of the kherson regional court of appeal. the passages which were the subject of the domestic proceedings are underlined and numbered for reference. however, the fact that the mps have ‘rejected the advances’ of the president of the kherson court of appeal, mr i. (получил от народных депутатов «гарбуза») [a1] speaks volumes. but the first official documents had appeared right after i. took up his position and they corroborate the above-mentioned reasoning. a brief discussion followed concerning judge o., from one of the district courts of the kherson region, who had presented her resignation to parliament. under the photograph the following caption appeared:“i will recompense them according to their deeds (old testament)[1]mr i. is shown in the photo” 16. on 22 may 2006 the first-instance court delivered its judgment allowing the claim. (iv) the defendant had failed to prove the truth of the factual statement a6 or to point to the source of that information. it was thus a value judgment and was true. the letter was addressed to a certain mr b. and contained a detailed response to his complaints against i. the council stated, in particular, that the fact that d. was the father of i.’s daughter-in-law did not mean that i. had abused his position. according to the applicant company, in the course of the trial it produced as proof of the factual grounds for the impugned statements twenty-four articles published in the local newspapers from 1997 to 2006. the following elements of the district court’s reasoning are worthy of note. (ii) according to the case-law of the european court of human rights the fact that subjects of the published information had public status made such persons more open to criticism but did not deprive them of the right to sue to defend their reputation. the first-instance court had not established that the journalist had acted in good faith and checked the information she disseminated and, accordingly, no exemption from liability under the state support of media act applied (see paragraph 51 below).
the applicant is a media company with its registered office in ankara. in february and march 1999 kamoy araştırma published a newspaper entitled özlenen gazete vatan. in march 1999 it halted the publication of the newspaper owing to financial reasons. on 4 september 2002, bağımsız gazetecilik yayıncılık a.ş. ( it noted that while the applicant company had indeed registered the name “vatan”, which was common to both newspapers, bağımsız gazetecilik had the “declaration of intention to publish a periodical” (mevkute beyannamesi – hereinafter “declaration of a periodical”) dated 1974, which allowed it to publish with that name. the report pointed out that the newspaper vatan had been published since 1975 and that the name had become recognisable long before the applicant company had applied for registration. on 27 january 2004 the istanbul intellectual property court dismissed the applicant company’s claim. in line with the findings of the expert report, it held that the name “vatan” had become well-known as a newspaper prior to the applicant company’s application for its registration as a trademark and that the applicant company, whose application should actually have been rejected by the patent institute, could not be considered to have brought the case in good faith. the applicant company appealed against the judgment. noting that its rights to the trademark at issue were still valid, it argued that turkish law provided for the absolute protection of a registered trademark. on 6 may 2005 the court of cassation upheld the judgment on the basis of the second reasoning relied on by the intellectual property court. the applicant company applied for rectification of that judgment, arguing that the retrospective application of section 31(2) of the turkish patent institute act put the other party in a privileged position. in that connection, it maintained that had the intellectual property court ruled on its case within one year of it having been lodged, it would have been able to prevent the unlawful use of its trademark. on 17 february 2005 the ankara intellectual property court ruled that the registration in the name of the applicant company be declared void, finding that vatan had become well-known as a newspaper before the applicant company’s registration. that judgment became final by a decision of the court of cassation on 12 june 2006.
the applicant was born in 1992 and lives in voronezhskaya, krasnodar region. on 28 july 2015 the applicant published on youtube a video with the title “kolkhoz tv on ukrainian crisis” (колхозное телевидение об украинском кризисе) where he made comments on ms f.’s speech as follows:“ms f.: nobody in the whole world has ever thought that russia would become such a strong country and ... that russia would reach new horizons...the applicant (mr r.): nodding ironically, showing the brochure “life of a galley slave”. ms f.: ...there is a war against russia, which has become a first-rate power and everybody is annoyed by this fact...they want us to die of drug and alcohol abuse and poverty etc. ms f.: ... ukraine is, so to say, our russian belly...mr r.: i am afraid of asking what the far east is. this proves that slavyansk belongs to us on lawful grounds. you have said that a war has been declared on us. yes, we are sorry, yes, people die there. as has previously been said, what if our people go there and die? ms f.: i guess they are now trying to convince us ideologically that if we are not happy with regional authorities’ decisions we need to organise rallies, revolutions etc. ms f.: we all, including all human rights defenders, need to work together as a team...mr r.: a person who claims to be a human rights defender must know what human rights are... now you have an idea of what is happening inside the heads of those who watch television! on 11 january 2016 ms f. brought an action against the applicant, stating that he had offended her and had harmed her reputation. in accordance with the principle of reasonableness, taking into account the seriousness of the wrongful acts, the nature of the offence and the contents of the publication, the degree of suffering involved, and that the information concerned a public activist and was available for the general public, the court allows the plaintiff’s claim for non‑pecuniary damage in part and awards 50,000 roubles (‘rub’)”. on 24 february 2016 the applicant lodged an appeal against the decision of 28 january 2016. however this word had been an interjection rather than an offence, and had been bleeped out. the applicant emphasised that the first-instance court had established that ms f. was a public person who should tolerate critics, but had still issued a decision violating freedom of political speech.
the applicant was born in 1988 and lives in szigetvár-becefa. no fracture was found, but a bruise was noted at rib cage level. on 6 february 2013 the applicant initiated proceedings on account of ill-treatment inflicted by the police in order to extort a confession. on 28 march 2013 the applicant was examined by the pécs investigating prosecutor. he contended that, on the morning of 4 february 2013, he had been questioned by five police officers. when he had denied his involvement in the offence, one of them (wearing gloves) had slapped him on both cheeks several times. another officer had then ordered him to stand up and when he had done so, the officer had kicked him in the chest so that he had fallen back onto the chair. he gave a description of the two unknown officers who he alleged had beaten him. on 16 october 2013 the prosecutor questioned the police officer who had been in charge of questioning the applicant on 4 february 2013. on the basis of the documents previously drawn up by the general practitioner and the doctor at pécs hospital, the expert concluded that the applicant’s visible injuries, namely the hyperaemia on his face and a minor wound in his mouth, might have resulted from a single slap inflicted with medium force – the wound being caused by the canine tooth colliding with the mucous membrane. on 15 november 2013 the prosecutor discontinued the investigation. moreover, the prosecutor’s decision had not given any reasons for disregarding the statements of the two witnesses (the applicant’s aunt and her son) who had seen the applicant with a bleeding mouth immediately after his release (see paragraph 11 above). it stressed that further investigative steps (a confrontation or an identification parade) would have been necessary only if the medical expert had substantiated the applicant’s allegations, which he had not. it also noted that the witnesses had not seen the alleged ill-treatment taking place. this final decision was allegedly served on the applicant on 17 december 2013.
the applicant company is registered in vilnius. it provides heating, cooling, ventilation and air conditioning equipment in lithuania. during that period the applicant company bought some goods and declared them as air conditioning equipment, comprising of one unit and its parts. in december 2013 the customs office carried out an additional investigation. it held that in the absence of any evidence that could prove that employees of the applicant company were not related to the american company, it had to conclude that the buyer and seller were related. the customs office also refused to approve twenty‑three import declarations provided by the applicant company and calculated the value of the imported goods in accordance with council regulation (eec) no. the applicant company claimed that the refusal of the customs office to approve the value of the goods provided by it in accordance with the transaction value method was unfounded, as was the conclusion that the applicant company and seller company were related. the applicant company complained to the vilnius regional administrative court. the applicant company appealed against that decision. - (3) if the seller authorises the buyer’s employees to perform certain actions related to the transportation and the customs procedures of the goods, can this be considered a relationship between buyer and seller, within the meaning of article 29 § 1 (d) of the community customs code, and can it be grounds not to apply the transaction value method? - (5) is the provision of domestic law that the customs office use data existing in the customs department database when applying the transaction value method of similar and identical goods in accordance with article 31 § 1 of the community customs code, which provides that where the customs value of imported goods cannot be determined under articles 29 or 30, it must be determined on the basis of data available in the community? on 22 march 2016 the supreme administrative court upheld the first‑instance decision. 37801/97, § 34, 1 july 2003, series a no. also, the mere fact that a party to the proceedings did not agree with the interpretation of the law provided by the first‑instance court did not mean that the substance of the european union law was not clear and that there was a necessity to refer the question to the cjeu (pastebėtina, kad vien faktinė aplinkybė, jog ginčo šalis nesutinka su pirmosios instancijos teismo pateiktu teisės aiškinimu, savaime nereiškia, jog nėra aiškus europos sąjungos teisės turinys, ir, atitinkamai, kad yra pagrindas kreiptis į estt prejudicinio sprendimo). in april 2017 the supreme administrative court dismissed a request lodged by the applicant company to reopen the proceedings.
the applicant, a former member of the turkish constitutional court, is a turkish national who was born in 1968 and lives in ankara. they specified in that connection that on 16 july 2016, in the context of a criminal investigation opened by the ankara public prosecutor’s office, some 3,000 judges and prosecutors, including two judges of the constitutional court (including the applicant) and more than 160 judges of the court of cassation and the supreme administrative court, had been taken into police custody and subsequently placed in pre-trial detention. he requested that his client be released on bail. in addition, on 21 july 2016 the turkish authorities gave notice to the secretary general of the council of europe of a derogation from the convention under article 15 (see paragraphs 11-13 above). in addition, he argued that the order for his detention did not contain any specific grounds relating to him and was not based on any fact justifying such a measure. on various other occasions, the applicant applied for release on bail. on 7 september 2016 the applicant lodged an individual application with the constitutional court. his social contacts were what led me to reach this conclusion ...”(b)  statements by a suspect 35. a former public prosecutor and a former rapporteur of the constitutional court who was accused of being a member of the fetö/pdy organisation, made several statements to the ankara public prosecutor’s office. according to the investigating authorities, ö.i̇., a teacher, was the “lay imam” responsible for members of the judiciary belonging to the fetö/pdy organisation (according to the public prosecutor’s office, each of the structure’s cells that had infiltrated the administrative and judicial authorities was led by a “lay imam”); s.e., moreover, although [the applicant] claims to have been prosecuted on account of his dissenting opinions as expressed in certain judgments of the constitutional court, he does not contend that the alleged offence is not an ordinary offence, that is to say, an offence [that was not] committed in connection with or during the performance of official duties. the plenary criminal divisions of the court of cassation have also held in a case concerning the conviction of two judges ... that ‘as the current and consistent position of the court of cassation makes clear, regarding the offence of membership of an armed terrorist organisation, which is a continuing offence, except in cases where [its continuing nature ends with] the dissolution of the organisation or termination of membership, the continuing nature [of the offence] may be interrupted by the offender’s arrest. via bylock, certain references were made to [the applicant]. the investigating bodies found, on the basis of evidence such as the statements by suspects/witnesses and the messages exchanged via bylock, that ö.i., in his application of 3 july 2017 he alleged a violation of articles 6, 8 and 14 of the convention.
the applicants are all roma who live in vâlcele. without allowing them to put any clothes on, the police took the first and third applicants out into the yard, pushed them onto the ground and hit them. on 12 december 2011 a forest ranger informed the araci police that on 7 december 2011 the first applicant had taken home timber which had been illegally cut from the forest. in this context, and in order to reduce and prevent the criminal activity, to strengthen citizens’ safety, to identify individuals without identity documents, to summon those suspected of having committed several crimes and to recover stolen goods, the police organised the raid of 15 december 2011. out of a total population of 4,300 inhabitants, 2,902 are of roma ethnicity. an x‑ray examination performed on the same day had not revealed any further damage. it was concluded that the trauma could have been caused by being hit with a hard object and that on account of the injuries, the first applicant needed one to two days of medical care. on 21 december 2011 a forensic medical report was drawn up for the fourth applicant. she complained of abdominal and chest pains and had a bruise on her lower chest. it was concluded that her injuries could have been caused by being hit with a hard object and that she needed one to two days of medical care. on 6 july 2012 the investigators examined the applicants’ front door. it mainly considered that the authorities had to provide justification for the injuries sustained by the applicants. a new investigation was carried out under the supervision of the same prosecutor from the prosecutor’s office attached to the braşov court of appeal. likewise, on 15 july 2013 another police officer had had to open fire in self-defence against an individual who had broken the windscreen of a police car during a police intervention triggered by a distress call. lastly, the court noted that the investigations had not been influenced by the fact that the applicants were roma.
the applicant was born in 1984 and is serving his life sentence in a prison. who had wished to take revenge on the women because she believed that one of them had been having an affair with her partner and that the other one had facilitated the start of the affair. they had then entered the house carrying the knives given to them by dor. the applicant had entered first and had seen three women in the kitchen – d. and two others whom he did not know. then g. and the applicant had gone to dor. he submitted, inter alia, that he had not witnessed the moment at which g. had hidden the knife, but had only been made aware of the hiding place when g. had told him about it. on the same day, at 7.30 p.m., the investigator drew up an arrest report ordering the applicant’s detention as a suspect in the premeditated murder of d. and s. according to the report, the applicant was arrested on the grounds of his statement of surrender and confession, and his right to a lawyer was explained to him. when signing the document, the applicant noted that he wished to be legally represented. he repeated his earlier statements, elaborating on them in detail: he did not deny that he had murdered d. and s., but he did deny that he had done so for profit. no record of her questioning has been submitted to the court. his request was allowed and, on 24 june 2005, sk., on 25 july 2005 the regional court, sitting as a court of first instance, found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. having examined the applicant’s medical file and having watched the video recordings of procedural actions undertaken with his participation, it concluded that there was no evidence that the applicant had suffered any physical injuries at the hands of the police. his right to remain silent and to legal counsel had not been explained to him until the investigator had obtained, by means of ill-treatment, detailed confessions from him. on 26 august 2009 the applicant asked the regional court to provide him with copies of his appeals in cassation.
the applicant was born in 1960 and died in 2012. on 6 august 2003 he was formally arrested on suspicion of the murder. in view of his allegations the next day the investigator requested a forensic medical opinion concerning his injuries. the expert noted that the applicant was alleging that he had been tortured. on 20 february 2007, based in part on o.’s new evidence, the applicant was again arrested on suspicion of the murder. o. was examined and cross-examined by the defence in court on 10 october 2007. she confirmed her testimony incriminating the applicant. she also asked to be examined again in court. the investigation was conducted by the nemyriv district prosecutor. o., who was still in prison at the time, was questioned. she reaffirmed her incriminating statements as having been made of her own free will and stated that she had written to the trial court because one of the applicant’s lawyers had said, in the course of the cross-examination, that she might be criminally liable for any false statements. as to o.’s evidence, the trial court stated that she had reiterated her pre-trial statement in the course of the trial in the applicant’s presence and that there had been no reason to distrust that testimony. on 24 march 2008 the applicant appealed in cassation. on 10 july 2008, in a final decision, a panel of three judges of the supreme court upheld the trial court’s judgment. in the application, lodged by his initial representative on his behalf on 9 january 2009, the applicant described, in the “statement of the facts” section of the form, the ill-treatment he had allegedly suffered in august 2003 (see paragraph 11 above).
the applicant was born in 1950 and lives in sofia. a popular figure of bulgarian politics, has for many years been the leader of a trade union. the names of a number of persons were listed after that, including the “pseudo trade unionist” k.t. the list ended with a reference to a footnote which quoted a 2002 article by another author published in a news magazine. he stated that he was a fervent christian, which meant that he could not be a freemason, as the church had condemned freemasonry, that he had never been a member of the bulgarian communist party or the youth communist organisation, and that he had not been connected with the communist secret services, but had, on the contrary, all his life fought for human rights and democracy. it analysed the allegations made by him and concluded that they had been untrue. lastly, justifying the amount of damage to be awarded, the city court noted that the applicant’s publication had “seriously impinged” upon k.t. was a public figure justified a higher award of damages such as the one made by the city court. instituted subsequently enforcement proceedings. abandoned his attempts to obtain payment, with the sum seized from the applicant amounting to merely bgn 4.55 (eur 2.32). on 30 june 2018 the applicant published a comment on these observations on his personal blog. as to the government and the position defended by them, he wrote in particular the following paragraphs:“to be able to understand human rights, including freedom and in particular freedom of expression but also of education, every person has to study, to gather knowledge. stigmatizing, pointing an accusing finger, uttering insults and putting labels are completely different things. what is sadder is that they come from the government of a country which is a member of the european union. to walk this road to the end and to drain the bitter cup.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in vodnjan. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. he was tried in summary proceedings (skraćeni postupak). during the proceedings before the first- and the second-instance courts he was represented by a lawyer, m.k. on 11 october 2011 the pula-pola municipal court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to one year’s imprisonment. he did not ask that he or his lawyer be invited to the session of the appeal panel. on 7 december 2011 the pula-pola county state attorney’s office returned the case file to pula-pola county court accompanied by a submission which read as follows:“in the criminal case against slobodan kliba, accused of the criminal offence referred to in article 193 § 2 in conjunction with article 192 § 1 of the criminal code, the defence lodged an appeal against the judgment of the pula municipal court no. the criminal code was not violated and the sanction inflicted is appropriate, considering the type and seriousness of the criminal offence of which the accused was found guilty. the costs of proceedings were properly estimated and can be borne by the accused, regard being had to his financial status.” the submission in question was not forwarded to the defence. on 20 january 2012 the pula-pola county court held a session which the parties did not attend. on the same day it dismissed the appeal as unfounded and upheld the first-instance judgment. on 13 march 2012 the applicant, represented by lawyer v.d.l., on 14 january 2016 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint as unfounded. the decision of the constitutional court was served on the applicant’s representative on 2 february 2016.
the applicants were born in 1975 and live in târgu-mureş. they had held those positions since 29 june 2000. on 18 december 2007, relying on the provisions of the anti-discrimination ordinance (government ordinance no. in a judgment of 14 february 2008 the county court allowed the claim. it found that the relevant law created a difference in treatment between the applicants and the rest of the judicial and non-judicial court staff and that there was no justification for that different treatment. 12 to the convention were applicable and declared that the applicants had been discriminated against because they had not been awarded the loyalty bonus. on the merits of the case, the court relied on the laws regulating “confidentiality bonus[es]” (spor de confidenţialitate), noting that the applicants had to respect the confidentiality of the information to which they had access and for this reason concluded that they should be entitled to a “confidentiality bonus”, like other members of the judiciary and ancillary staff. meanwhile, on 14 october 2008 the authorities paid each of the applicants 30% of the amount they were entitled to receive as compensation for the period from december 2004 to july 2008. on 27 november 2008 the applicants lodged an application for correction of material errors in the final decision adopted by the court of appeal in their case. they also raised an objection of unconstitutionality of articles 318 and 319 of the ccp, which in their view, by allowing for an open-ended possibility of lodging the extraordinary appeal, contradicted the right of access to court guaranteed by article 21 of the constitution and by article 6 § 1 of the convention, the latter having been incorporated into domestic law by article 20 of the constitution. the court of appeal sitting in a different formation held a hearing on 14 october 2009. the court of appeal referred to a completely different legal matter, which had not been brought before it by the parties, and thus dismissed as unfounded the appeal lodged by the ministry of justice without examining the arguments put before it by [the ministry of justice] by mistakenly copying the reasoning from a different decision, in which it had examined the issue of awarding a confidentiality bonus.” 818 and 821 of 2008; see paragraph 24 below). 821 of 3 july 2008, as well as by decision no. therefore, ... the decision lacks legal basis.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in uxbridge. she pleaded guilty to offences of cruelty towards her son and was sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment with a recommendation that she be deported. on 5 august 2008 the home secretary served her with notice of intention to make a deportation order. the present application is the second one made to this court by the applicant. in her first application the applicant complained about her detention from 8 august 2008 to 28 april 2010. the present case concerns that later period of her detention from 22 july 2010 to 6 july 2011 (11 months, 14 days). the applicant subsequently brought a number of legal challenges arguing that the order should be revoked. on 7 march 2011 and 17 june 2011 a tribunal judge refused to grant bail to the applicant. on 30 june 2011 dr a-d provided an addendum report which recommended the applicant’s immediate release. v. the united kingdom, cited above, § 33). the high court refused her permission to bring judicial review proceedings on 3 april 2012. she could still be held in an acceptable stable mental condition in detention under the existing treatment. the defects in the reviews already filed speak for themselves.” he went on to comment:“34... realistically [the applicant] accepts that the proper application of the home secretary’s policy to her case in the light of the report of dr [a-d] would not have led to her immediate release in march 2011. to the extent that her contentions in these proceeding have deserved to be vindicated, she has secured their vindication in this judgment.
the applicant was born in 1945 and lives in yerevan. he himself also stayed at freedom square around the clock, leaving only for two to three hours a day. his telephone conversations and those of his supporters were tapped and various party premises searched. please, do not have any contact with them and do not touch them. if they have something to tell us, we are ready to listen. the demonstrators followed his request and kept their distance from the police forces, which by then had surrounded the demonstrators with a triple cordon. after further attempts to make the applicant leave the square failed, the head of the spd forced the applicant into a car and took him to his house in yerevan. block posts were set up and all vehicles heading to and from his house were checked and searched. the special forces, after carrying out a search of visitors and their vehicles, reported their identity and the purpose of their visit to an unidentified superior and allowed visitors to go in and out only after receiving instructions from that person. members of the relevant police force had arrived on freedom square at around 7 a.m. to verify that information, but met with resistance from the demonstrators who had attacked the police officers with wooden bats, metal rods and stones. an spd car then approached and the applicant got into the car voluntarily and was taken by spd officers to his home in yerevan. if these reports are confirmed, all allegations of excessive force should be properly investigated. on the same day the spd issued a statement that was broadcast on the public television channel, to the effect that spd officers had decided to remove the applicant from freedom square, pursuant to section 6 § 3 of the act on ensuring the security of persons subject to special state protection, in order to ensure his safety – as a former president of armenia subject to state protection – from any danger posed by the situation created during the police operation in the morning of 1 march 2008. on 4 march 2008 the applicant’s representative filed a request at the hearing before the constitutional court, submitting that the applicant was under de facto house arrest and unable to attend, and requesting that the constitutional court take measures to ensure his attendance. on 8 march 2008 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s application of 29 february 2008.
the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, and as they appear from the documents submitted by them may be summarised as follows. the applicants and/or their relatives were owners of apartments in yalova. the permits for the building of those apartments were issued on 23 march 1987. 14350/05 and 2 others, 17 november 2015, and hayati çelebi and others v. turkey, no. 818) in force at the material time (“the former code of obligations”) (see paragraph 21 below). the representatives of the claimant filed the present lawsuit to claim the value of the damaged apartment. therefore, earthquake-resistant buildings must be built. the public conscience has been hurt because of the earthquake. due to the pain, suffering and losses caused by such an incident it is expected that justice be served. and the judge must be conscious of his responsibility towards society in his or her actions. thus, the judgment of the 2nd criminal chamber of the court of cassation no. it is observed that the building use permit for the building of the claimant’s apartment was obtained on 23 march 1987. the ten-year limitation period for filing a lawsuit has elapsed a long time ago. for the purposes of the economy of the procedure and to the extent that there would be no impact on the result, an on-site survey was not ordered. on that basis, it quashed the first-instance court’s judgment which had found, applying section 125 of the former code of obligations, that the lawsuit had been introduced following the expiry of a period of ten years from the issuance of the building use permit (see hayati çelebi and others, cited above, § 37, for the relevant parts of a similar decision by the 4th civil chamber of the court of cassation dated 11 december 2001).
the applicant was born in 1976 and lives in syktyvkar. on 21 september 2015 the applicant, together with ms s., notified the syktyvkar town administration of their intention to hold a “picket” (пикетирование) from 5 to 6 p.m. on 25 september 2015 at the crossroads of lenin and kommunisticheskaya streets behind the lenin monument, which fifty people were expected to attend. on the same day the applicant published a copy of his notification of 21 september 2015 on his internet blog. the applicant received that decision the following day, 22 september 2015. unlike a “picket”, it was not possible to use placards during a “people’s assembly”. he claimed, however, that a high participation rate would show that there were many people who were not afraid to express their opinion. in any event, it would not have caused any disturbance or inconvenience. the special designated locations proposed by the town administration would have been unsuitable. on 18 november 2015 the syktyvkar town court rejected the applicant’s complaint. after citing article 11 of the convention, the applicable domestic provisions and the constitutional court’s decision of 2 april 2009 (see a summary of the domestic law provisions in lashmankin and others, cited above, §§ 255-59), the court held:“the complainant’s argument that the event would lose its purpose if held at the locations proposed by [the town administration] is unsubstantiated. the choice of a location for an event and its approval by the municipal authorities does not restrict the participants’ right to freedom of opinion and expression. the argument that it was impossible to hold the event was hypothetical and did not refer to any valid reasons explaining why the locations proposed by [the town administration] were incompatible with the public event’s purposes sought by the organisers and its social and political significance. the law does not guarantee the organiser of a public event an unconditional right to hold a public event at the location which he considers the most relevant to its political and social significance. in such circumstances, the restriction had a basis in law and pursued the aim of preventing breaches of law in the sphere of distribution of information. on 7 july 2016 the supreme court of the komi republic upheld that judgment on appeal, finding that it had been lawful, well reasoned and justified.
the applicant was born in 1979 and lives in kazan. mr navalnyy’s followers in many towns notified the local authorities of their intention to hold public assemblies against corruption on 26 march 2017. in the majority of cases the local authorities refused to allow the assemblies. in response to the call by mr navalnyy to protest against corruption, on 14 march 2017 the applicant notified the kazan town administration of her intention to hold a meeting from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on 26 march 2017, which 150 people were expected to attend. on 23 march 2017 the applicant published a message on vkontakte, criticising the town administration for its decision not to allow the meeting. the message ended as follows:“invite your friends to join the group. no such proposals had been made, however. according to the government, during the meeting the police used loudspeakers to order the participants to disperse. at the same time, at 6 p.m., the police also drew up a report on an administrative offence under article 19.3 of the cao. the court noted that the applicant had notified the town administration of her intention to hold a meeting in krylya sovetov park but that the town administration had refused to allow the meeting; it had proposed that she hold a “picket” at another location. there had therefore been no lawful grounds to stop the public event. furthermore, the judicial decision finding [the town administration’s] failure to act unlawful did not amount to an unconditional approval of the location and time of the public event and did not exempt the organiser from fulfilling the obligations imposed by [the public events act]. it then found that on 23 march 2017 she had published a message on vkontakte calling for participation in a meeting to be held on 26 march 2017 in krylya sovetov park, despite the fact that the town administration had refused to approve that meeting and had suggested that the applicant should hold a “picket” at another location. on 9 august 2017 the supreme court of the tatarstan republic upheld the judgment of 12 july 2017 on appeal, finding that it had been lawful, well reasoned and justified. it added that on 21 march 2017 the town administration had proposed an alternative location for the public event planned by the applicant.
the applicant is registered under hungarian law as a cooperative based in aranyosgadány. the applicant’s aim is to support its members in their agricultural activity, in particular by purchasing expensive machines and lending them to its members free of charge. the members pay a regular “contribution fee” to the cooperative. the applicant considered that the lending of machines constituted the very essence of its economic activities. it therefore deducted the value-added tax paid in respect of the machines from the tax which it was liable to pay. the applicant challenged the decision of the tax authority before the administrative courts. on 17 february 2009 the baranya county court upheld the administrative decision. on 31 may 2011 the budapest regional court rejected the applicant’s claim against the supreme court. is the infringement sufficiently serious if the supreme court of a member state denies, in administrative proceedings, an individual’s right to tax deduction without analysing the underlying provision of european law directly or referring the case for a preliminary ruling, in circumstances where the reasoning of the refusal to refer the case [to the cjeu] is based on the supreme court’s reliance on a judgment of the [cjeu] adopted on a different subject and where this latter court has not yet adopted a ruling on the issue at hand?” it reiterated that the applicant could have relied on the sixth council directive and put forward its arguments concerning the allegedly correct interpretation of domestic law in the light of european union law before the supreme court in the 2009 proceedings. the judgment of the kúria was served on the applicant on 7 february 2014. the applicant’s constitutional complaint contained the following passages:“the complainant ... does not want to call into question the merits of the kúria’s impugned judgment in the present procedure [but rather complains that] the kúria acted unfairly in the review proceedings ...the kúria’s procedure was in breach of the claimant’s constitutional right to a fair trial, guaranteed by article xxviii (1) of the fundamental law, in so far as the kúria acted arbitrarily in omitting to refer the case for a preliminary ruling. ... (3)  in court proceedings conducted as a consequence of the quashing of a judicial decision by the constitutional court, the decision of the constitutional court as to the constitutional issue shall be adhered to. the provisions of the old code of civil procedure (act no. everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal previously established by law.
the applicant was born in 1948 and lives in san marino. had not returned to him part of the proceeds (lit 9,035,264,332) obtained from the purchase (see paragraph 10 above) and subsequent sale, a few months later, of the shares of company a.n. on behalf of b. in execution of the fiduciary mandate had been correctly recorded in the financial statement. according to the judge, the only evidence that company s.m.i. given the unreliability of the statement, the judge, applying the domestic practice concerning the assessment of documentary evidence, took into consideration only the parts of the statement which constituted evidence against the party which had drafted the document, that is to say, only the credit entries (the sums of money company s.m.i. had claimed to have used in execution of the fiduciary mandate). thus, to compensate for the partial lack of evidence and allow b. to entirely discharge his burden of proof, the judge in the same aforementioned interlocutory judgment summoned b. so that he could take a “supplementary oath” (giuramento suppletorio – an oath of a party on his or her own behalf as confirmation of otherwise inadmissible or inconclusive evidence – for more details, see relevant domestic law, paragraph 68 below). had a remaining debt to b. of lit 9,028,398,950 (eur 4,662,778.93), and ordered it to pay him that sum of money together with default interest and currency revaluation. although he was regularly notified of the reopening of the proceedings, b. did not respond. was also added to the case file, amongst other things. on 10 june 2015 the applicant filed written submissions as requested by the court. in any case, having examined all the evidence, in the court’s view, the declaration of falsity of the first part of the statement made by b. under oath did not necessarily impact upon the quantification of the debt since (i) all the parties to the contract of 20 march 1990 had acted under the instructions of the same mastermind (b.), (ii) company p.a. ( according to the applicant, his “jactitation suit” had aimed at ascertaining the existence of actual damage arising from the falsity of the “supplementary oath” and such damage had arisen from the second part of the “supplementary oath” (the one in which b. had claimed the return of a quantified sum) and not the first part. he essentially reiterated the same requests which he had already submitted earlier. by a decision of 11 february 2016, judge l.f.,
the applicant was born in 1934 and lives in vienna. on 23 july 2009 a letter signed by the applicant was sent to the sofia municipality. the applicant indicated an intention to challenge these deeds in court. initiated a private criminal prosecution of the applicant. the applicant objected to the complaint against him, contending that what he had stated was true and that he had never claimed that a.k. the domestic court stated expressly in that judgment that it did not have to establish the elements of the criminal offence of defamation. had become the owner of part of the property at issue after his mother had donated to him a share in 1983 and he had purchased another share from a co-owner in 1995. both transactions had been attested in notarial deeds. in 2006 he had obtained a permit to enlarge the existing house. the construction works had been carried out in 2006 and 2007. a representative of the building control authorities had visited the site on 2 july 2009 and had established breaches of the relevant rules, but no administrative sanction had been ordered against a.k. had not been ordered to demolish the unlawfully constructed parts. ’s professional reputation, since he was working in construction. had enjoyed a good name in society, that the applicant’s allegations had also affected a.k. ’s professional reputation, and that the allegations had been made before a municipal body and not in private correspondence.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in charlotte, north carolina (the united states of america). the case concerns “non-contentious” proceedings for the return of the child instituted on 13 october 2011 in which the domestic courts refused to order the return of the applicant’s son to the united states after the child’s mother (a croatian national and the applicant’s former wife) had in august 2011 “wrongfully retained” him in croatia within the meaning of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (“the hague convention”). specifically, on 15 march 2012 the zagreb municipal civil court (općinski građanski sud u zagrebu), without holding a single hearing, dismissed the applicant’s request for the return of the child. following an appeal by the applicant, on 2 july 2012 the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) quashed the municipal court’s decision and remitted the case. in so deciding it, inter alia, instructed the municipal court to hold a hearing. on 21 may 2014 that court, without holding a hearing, again dismissed the applicant’s request for his son to be returned to the united states. this decision was upheld on appeal by the zagreb county court on 22 october 2014. in the first adžić case the court in the judgment of 12 march 2015 held that the domestic authorities had failed to act expeditiously in the proceedings in question. in his constitutional complaint the applicant complained of a violation of his right to fair procedure, in particular of a breach of his right to an oral hearing and a breach of the principle of equality of arms and the adversarial principle. more specifically, the applicant submitted that the ordinary courts had not held a single hearing in the case and that the first‑instance court had not informed him of its decision to obtain an opinion from a forensic expert in psychiatry, thus preventing him from objecting to the choice of expert. he further complained that he had not been involved in the expert’s assessment, even though he had previously expressed his willingness to make himself available for such an assessment. by a decision of 28 october 2015 the constitutional court dismissed the applicant’s constitutional complaint. it served its decision on his representative on 4 december 2015. the constitutional court examined only the alleged violation of the applicant’s right to fair procedure, because it considered that the alleged violation of his right to family life had been addressed by the court in the first adžić case (see paragraph 9 above). the other relevant facts of the case are set out in detail in the court’s judgment in the first adžić case (see adžić, cited above, §§ 6-57).
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1976 respectively and are detained in kharp. the applicants were co-defendants in domestic criminal proceedings. he was subsequently detained on an unspecified date. apparently, the case was resubmitted to the court in or around august 2006. on 14 june 2007 the regional court upheld the judgment. where a case concerns a defendant who is detained on remand, a judge must decide within fourteen days. by a judgment of 17 october 2011, the syktyvkar town court of the komi republic dismissed mr mityanin’s claims. the court considered that the applicant had not proved that the information in the article had been untrue, and that that information had corresponded to the fact that there was an ongoing criminal investigation in respect of, inter alia, the applicant. in the court’s view, as required in order for a statutory exception to be made, the case disclosed “an interest relating to public and state security”, while the publication had been aimed at informing the public of the “appearance of a person in relation to a criminal investigation”. the appeal court pointed out that the information had been true and non-defamatory, since it had “corresponded to the information [adduced by] the preliminary investigation”; it was important to apprise the public of the appearance of the person in relation to a case receiving media coverage. on 21 april 2004 the judge returned the case to the prosecutor, and held that the preventive measure of detention should remain unchanged. on 13 september 2004 the district court ordered that the applicant’s detention pending trial be continued. in august 2005 the criminal case was resubmitted for trial before the district court. it appears that in february 2006 the court again returned the case to the prosecutor. having listed the relevant provisions of article 5 of the convention, the ccrp and the code of civil procedure as well as the procedural history of the criminal case (see paragraphs 33-34 above), the court concluded that the applicant’s detention during the impugned period had been in compliance with the legislation in force at the time in question; that the head of the remand centre had had no legal basis for releasing the applicant, having information that the criminal case had been pending before a trial court.
the applicant was born in 1947 and lives in vratsa. in 1991, following the adoption of the agricultural land act which provided, inter alia, for the restitution of formerly collectivised land, the applicant applied for the restitution of land previously owned by her father. in a decision of 20 may 1996 the competent body, the oryahovo land commission, held that the heirs of the applicant’s father (the applicant and her sister) were entitled to the restitution of, inter alia, a plot of land of 11,800 square metres enlisted as “forest”. under further conditions, those plots are subject to restitution in favour of the pre‑collectivisation owners. such restitution is to be carried out after the elaboration of a detailed cadastral plan of the respective area and, on its basis, a so-called plan of the newly-created plots. she was informed that she had to await the elaboration of the above-mentioned plans. in 2012, responding to a letter from the applicant, the ministry of agriculture and forests informed her that the completion of the restitution procedure as concerns plots under section 4 was within the competence of the municipality. thus, the municipality was not competent to take any decision to finalise the restitution procedure. after the applicant contacted once again the ministry, it informed her, in an undated letter, that she was to address its local branch, the oryahovo agriculture department (former land commission). in a further undated letter, replying to a fresh complaint by the applicant, the ministry of agriculture and forests instructed her to submit a written request under section 45d of the regulations on the application of the agricultural land act (hereinafter “section 45d”, see paragraph 21 below). on 5 june 2017 the vratsa regional directorate of agriculture (superior body of the oryahovo agriculture department) instructed the applicant to submit to the agriculture department the relevant documents concerning the plot of land. the same was reiterated by the ministry of agriculture and forests on 30 august 2017, after it was once again contacted by the applicant. these were: a written request under section 45d; an inheritance certificate; notarial deeds, court decisions and any other documents establishing the title to property; documents sent to the applicant by the oryahovo municipality concerning the procedure under section 4; a plan prepared by a certified geodesist, indicating the exact borders of the plot of land. on 19 september 2017 the applicant submitted a written request under section 45d, which was not accompanied by the remaining documents. it appears that there were no other relevant developments after that.
the applicant was born in 1956 and lives in golasowice. i ns 57/99) the jastrzębie zdrój district court allowed the applicant’s claim. the other party appealed against this decision. two experts declined the invitation to prepare an opinion, and the third expert approached by the court eventually prepared it on 17 october 2001. it appears that the next hearing was held on 23 april 2002. on 12 november 2002 the court held a viewing of the property. the expert was questioned at a hearing on 3 july 2003. on 2 june 2005 the jastrzębie zdrój district court allowed, in essence, the applicant’s claim (file no. at a hearing on 26 june 2006 the court requested preparation of an expert geological opinion. at a hearing on 23 july 2008 the court questioned the expert and requested the preparation of another expert opinion on the value of the plot of land. the opinion was submitted to the court on 12 january 2009. she stated that she had lodged her claim in 1999 and that her case had still not been examined. iii s 36/04) the gliwice regional court rejected the claim on formal grounds, having found that the applicant “had not specified the circumstances on which her complaint had been based.” iii s 7/06) the gliwice regional court dismissed the claim. it analysed in detail the course of the proceedings after september 2004 and held that they had generally been conducted in a correct and timely manner.
the applicant was born in 1959 and lives in štip. on 28 september 2012 the applicant lodged a request with the ministry of justice for his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll to be changed from that of bulgarian to macedonian. on 15 october 2012 the electoral roll was made available to the štip court of appeal for inspection. since the applicant’s ethnic designation had not been changed, on the same date he lodged a fresh request for it to be rectified (from bulgarian to macedonian), relying on section 17 of the state judicial act (“the act”) (see paragraph 23 below). by a decision of 18 october 2012, the ministry of justice refused the applicant’s request. in these three electoral rolls [the applicant was] declared [to be] bulgarian. this means that there has been no violation of his right to declare his own ethnicity.” it was unclear how and by what means those judges would have been put in such a position, or indeed which judges would have been affected. he also reiterated his arguments that declaring his own ethnic identity was his personal right. on 2 november 2012 the ministry’s observations in reply were communicated to the applicant. the judgment, in which the court cited the wording of provisions of the act and the general administrative procedure act (see paragraphs 19, 23 and 24 below), stated, inter alia, that:“... [the applicant requested] the modification of his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll after the [publication of] the announcement of the election of [new] members to the sjc, in which he ... participates. the applicant], as a bulgarian, enjoyed rights related to the election of members to the sjc [given the fact that] he had declared himself in the electoral rolls of [2006, 2008 and 2010] as bulgarian ...... [the ministry’s] decision is based on the state judicial council act and the general administrative procedure act ...... [t]he court examined and rejected as ill-founded [the applicant’s] allegations that the impugned decision had restricted his right to assert his own ethnic identity. in the present case, [the applicant] requested a rectification – that is to say the modification of his ethnicity entry in the electoral roll. [ on 5 october 2012 the applicant submitted himself for election as a member of the sjc. the sjc furthermore stated that it was not required under the act to take any decision related to entries in the electoral roll.
the applicant was born in 1969 and lives in romny. in september 2009 criminal proceedings in respect of fraud and bribery were instituted against the applicant. on 12 january 2010 the romny court convicted the applicant of both charges and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment. by the same decision the court remanded him in custody pending the execution of its judgment. on 23 march 2010, upon an appeal by the applicant, the sumy regional court of appeal (“the regional court”) quashed the judgment of 12 january 2010 and remitted the case for retrial. on 27 april 2010 the applicant asked the romny court to order his release from custody, subject to an undertaking not to abscond. in that regard he submitted that he had no prior criminal record and that the crimes imputed to him were not serious. in addition, he had a permanent residence and had obtained positive character references. he also needed to support a family, including a child, and was suffering from several chronic illnesses which required regular medical supervision and which might deteriorate if he remained in detention. the applicant also submitted that, having been bound by an undertaking not to abscond throughout the first round of the proceedings, he had never attempted to abscond or to obstruct the investigation and had dutifully complied with all his procedural obligations. on an unknown date in may 2010 the romny court refused the applicant’s request for release, having found that the crimes imputed to him were sufficiently serious as to potentially warrant a prison sentence of three years or more. on 10 february 2011 the applicant again asked to be released from custody pending the proceedings against him, reiterating his previous arguments and emphasising that it was very difficult while in detention to keep to his special diet and secure the necessary medical supervision for his chronic medical conditions. on 23 november 2012 the romny court found the applicant guilty as charged and sentenced him to a fine. accordingly, the court also terminated the proceedings as time-barred. the applicant did not appeal against this ruling and it became final.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in yerevan. on 5 october 2001 the government adopted decree no. 1151-n by which it approved as an alienation zone real estate situated within the administrative boundaries of the kentron district of yerevan, containing land to be taken for state needs with a total area of 345,000 square metres. this property was included in the alienation zone of real estate to be taken for state needs. the contract also provided for a financial incentive of usd 78,006 to be paid to the applicant. on 13 january 2006 the anti-corruption department of the prosecutor general’s office instituted criminal proceedings against agency officials for deliberately overestimating the market value of the applicant’s property and overpaying her. on 2 april 2007 she received a reply from the head of the agency, stating that she had transferred the amount in question to the agency’s account without any documentary proof. in its reply the agency claimed that, by paying back the amount in question, the applicant had in fact accepted that she had been overpaid and for that reason the criminal proceedings had been terminated. on 27 may 2008 the applicant withdrew her claim for damages. as regards [the applicant’s] argument that [the agency] had informed her that the general prosecutor’s office was investigating matters relating to the ... agreement concluded with her, as a result of which she had been confused and therefore had returned the amount to [the agency]; the court of appeal notes in this respect that this argument may serve as an independent legal basis to dispute [the agency’s] actions in judicial proceedings ...” 22. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law. according to article 31, everyone shall have the right to dispose of, use, manage, and bequeath his property in the way he sees fit. no one can be deprived of his property, save by a court in cases prescribed by law. property can be expropriated for the needs of society and the state only in exceptional cases of paramount public interest, in a procedure prescribed by law, and with prior equivalent compensation. according to article 132 § 1, monetary assets are objects of the civil law.
the applicant was born in 1982 and lives in st petersburg. in 1972 the applicant’s grandmother m. was provided with a flat under a social tenancy agreement. in november 1998 the applicant’s uncle died. in december 1998 the applicant moved into the flat with her grandmother and, with the written consent of her grandmother, the authorities registered her as living in the flat as m.’s granddaughter. in october 2004 the applicant and her grandmother brought court proceedings against g., as she was the legal representative of a., who was a minor. m. acknowledged his paternity in respect of his son a., and registered him as living in our dwelling. the charges for the flat increase every year. we, the claimants, have an income which is below the minimum wage. the applicant submitted the following arguments in support of her claims. (a)  she had been living in the flat with her grandmother since 1984 and since 1998 had been registered there as m.’s granddaughter. the city court held in particular that, in coming to the conclusion that the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the flat as a family member of her grandmother and in taking a decision to evict the applicant, the district court had not made any assessment of the fact that the applicant’s grandmother had initially brought the court proceedings together with the applicant and had never challenged the applicant’s right to occupy the flat. the applicant appealed against that judgment. on 19 june 2008 the city court upheld that judgment. the city court agreed with the conclusion of the court of first instance that the applicant’s claims had to be dismissed because the applicant had not proved that she had moved into the disputed flat and had shared the same household as the tenant, m., her grandmother. in such circumstances, the judgment of the court of first instance had been lawful and duly reasoned.
the applicant was born in 1966 and lives in morozivka. on 20 september 2007 the applicant, who was head of the brusyliv district state administration of zhytomyr region at the time, was arrested on charges of bribery. on 21 september 2007 the investigator applied to the court for the applicant’s pre-trial detention as a preventive measure pending trial. no further details were provided in that regard. in the course of reviewing the extension of his detention on 24 september 2007, 8 january, 19 march and 7 august 2008, the applicant raised objections arguing, in particular, that his state of health had been unsatisfactory, that he had a stable family relationship, and that he had not absconded from justice. on 3 october 2008 the malyn district court of zhytomyr region (“the trial court”) committed the applicant for trial. the trial court rejected those requests, giving similar reasons to those given at the initial stage (see paragraph 6 above). the court further stated that the applicant had been provided with the necessary medical treatment in detention and that his state of health did not warrant his release. on 1 december 2010 and 19 may 2011 respectively the zhytomyr regional court of appeal and the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters upheld that judgment with minor amendments. according to the government, the applicant was diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs as early as in 1984. in particular, he was diagnosed with varicose dilatation of the lower limbs and chronic venous insufficiency of the lower limbs with trophic disorders. overall, in the course of his detention the applicant was recommended surgery six times in respect of the varicose dilatation, on 16 january 2008, 5 may 2008, 23 october 2008, 18 march 2009, 22 july 2009 and 18 march 2010. on 8 april 2009 the applicant was recognised as falling into the “third category” (the mildest category) of disability (третя група інвалідності). on 28 november 2013 the applicant underwent surgery on his lower limbs. outpatient medical treatment was prescribed to him.
the first applicant was born in 1966 and is serving a prison sentence in correctional facility ik-8 in the khabarovsk region. the expert concluded that “the injuries had been inflicted by a hard blunt object, as confirmed by bruises and abrasions”, not earlier than three‑five days before the examination (three days as regards the injuries on the wrist joints); that it was unlikely that they could have originated from a fall and that self-harm was not excluded. the applicant had received at least one traumatic impact to his face and no less than three traumatic impacts to his torso. they denied, as did investigator m., the first applicant’ ill-treatment. on 14 august 2007 the second applicant complained about his alleged ill‑treatment by the ubop police officers to the voronezh regional prosecutor’s office. on 28 march 2007 the applicants were accused of robbery committed in september 2001 and theft. according to the lawyer, hospitalisation had been refused by the investigator who had ordered that the applicant be taken back to the detention facility. on 17 january 2008 the regional court upheld the decision on appeal. in its decisions for extension of the applicants’ detention of 6 march (concerning both applicants), 17 march 2008 (concerning the first applicant, upheld by the supreme court of russia on 20 may 2008) and 18 march 2008 (concerning the second applicant, upheld on appeal on 20 may 2008) the voronezh regional court relied on the gravity of multiple crimes of which the applicants stood accused (including banditry according to final charges), the risk of their re‑offending and the need to finalise investigative activities involving 36 victims and eight accused and their lawyers. had not confirmed their complaints in the course of the relevant inquiry. and m.; the first applicant noted that those victims, not mentioned in the courts’ decisions, had acknowledged at the trial that they had actually not received any threats from the defendants), the first applicant’s criminal records, the defendants’ abuse of their rights by submitting multiple requests the majority of which had been rejected and the resultant protraction of the proceedings and the risk of the defendants exerting pressure on jurors. who stated to have been subjected to violence, including electric shocks, by police officers s. and g. in the presence of investigator m. witness b. stated that he had been taken to one of the ubop offices where the first applicant was lying on the floor face down. on 19 march 2012 the first applicant requested the head of the fsin that he be allowed to serve his sentence in the voronezh region where his family resided. on 11 january 2013 the first applicant again requested the fsin that he be transferred to the voronezh region for serving his sentence. the applicant appealed against that decision.
the applicant was born in 1987 and lived in syria before he came to russia in 2015. the facts of the case may be summarised as follows. on 23 march 2016 the applicant was arrested for violation of migration rules. on the same day the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk (“the district court”) imposed an administrative fine on the applicant and ordered his administrative removal and detention until his removal. on 5 april 2016 the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya excluded the removal order from the administrative penalty imposed on him by the district court. on 2 june 2016 the applicant was released. on 16 june 2016 the district court reviewed the administrative removal order of 23 march 2016 and confirmed its validity. the applicant was detained on the same day. on 15 july, 7 november and 19 december 2016 and 27 january, 2 march and 10 april 2017 the oktyabrskiy district court of izhevsk allowed an application lodged by the bailiff for the postponement of the enforcement of the order of administrative removal by one month owing to the application of an interim measure by the court on 17 june 2016. however, the district court dismissed her arguments, having concluded that,“the grounds for the applicant’s detention had already been established by the court in the removal proceedings and the discontinuation of the enforcement proceedings in the circumstances of [the applicant’s] case is not provided for by article 31.7 of the cao” (see paragraph 22 below). all these decisions, except the one of 15 july 2016 (no appeal was brought), were upheld by the supreme court of the republic of udmurtiya. the supreme court found that the applicant might be exposed to a risk of torture or ill-treatment in syria in the event of his return there. on 2 june 2017 the applicant was released (after the decision entered into force). on 4 july 2016 the applicant’s request for temporary asylum was dismissed. on 25 november 2016 a second request lodged by the applicant for temporary asylum was denied by the migration authorities and the applicant did not lodge a complaint against this refusal.
the applicant was born in 1963 and is serving a prison sentence in the perm region. at the time, the applicant was a military deputy prosecutor. the applicant hit and questioned k. and the latter admitted that he had robbed the applicant’s flat. the applicant and the privates took k. with them. the applicant asked for the ring that k. had stolen from his flat and sold to kras. who had been detained as a suspect in a criminal case. on 26 april 2000 the applicant ordered the privates to beat up chern., a witness in a criminal case who had refused to cooperate. the applicant was present and supervised the beatings. on 8 april 2000 the applicant had a fight with sor. the majority of the witnesses were questioned in court. the applicant appealed against his conviction. in particular, m. submitted that in july 2006, when judge r. had been supposed to be drafting the judgment in the applicant’s case, he had seen the judge in another town. he reiterated the arguments raised in his statement of appeal. on 26 january 2009 the presidium of the military court of the third circuit conducted a supervisory review and upheld the applicant’s conviction.
the applicant was born in 1970 and is currently detained in alytus correctional facility. the applicant was arrested on 3 june 2012 and transferred to kaunas remand prison on 4 june 2012. on 5 june 2012 he was examined by a doctor (see paragraph 15 below). during that examination, the applicant did not indicate that he needed any special devices. on 15 march 2013 a report was issued by a medical expert, indicating that the use of a cpap device was the most effective way to treat sleep apnoea and that the applicant’s condition was deteriorating because he had not been using a cpap device. it also indicated that there was a risk of complications if the sleep apnoea was not treated properly. between 12 and 17 september 2013 the applicant was hospitalised in the prison hospital. the applicant then asked the kaunas remand prison administration to allow his relatives to give him the device. on 20 october 2014 the applicant lodged a complaint before the domestic courts, which he specified on 19 february 2015. the applicant stated that while he had been detained in kaunas remand prison, he had asked the prison administration to allow him to have a cpap device to treat his sleep apnoea, as recommended to him by a doctor in the prison hospital (see paragraph 8 above). the applicant stated that the prison administration had refused to allow him to have such a device, and he had been experiencing serious health issues. it was clear from the case file that the applicant had twice asked the prison administration to allow him to purchase and use a cpap device. the applicant appealed against the decision of the kaunas regional administrative court. on 4 october 2016 the supreme administrative court upheld the first-instance decision in its entirety. on 2 august 2017 the applicant’s request was allowed and he was transferred to alytus correctional facility on 21 august 2017 where he was able to continue using his cpap device.
the couple lived together in italy, where o.c.i. on 25 june 2015 the first applicant informed her husband that she and the children would no longer return to italy. that he was a bad father who mistreated his children. he would pull them by the ears, slap their faces and hit their bottoms. she had encouraged her husband to seek medical help for his behaviour, but he had refused. she submitted as evidence several recordings of discussions between the applicants and p.l.r. during their common life in italy, showing episodes similar to those described above. they participated in after-school activities that they had always wanted to try but had in the past been denied by their father. she also explained that the children refused to speak with their father. they feared going back to italy and being again subject to abuse. it is also reasonable to suppose that if after the decision is rendered the children are exposed to a risk, [the italian authorities] would take such requisite measures, if the risk was brought to their attention and supported by evidence.” on 7 december 2017 the tulcea district court granted the request. the enforcement proceedings were stayed during that period. a report of 29 may 2018 on the results of the counselling stated that the children refused contact with their father despite the first applicant’s efforts to encourage that relationship. therapy for the children was recommended.
the applicant, who is an uzbek national, was born in 1989. on an unspecified date in june 2012 he arrived in russia from uzbekistan. on 13 june 2013 the applicant was indicted for religious and politically motivated crimes in uzbekistan, namely for the participation in an extremist religious organisation islamic movement of turkistan. a search warrant in respect of him was issued and his pre-trial detention was ordered in absentia. on 24 november 2014 the moscow regional court convicted the applicant of participating in an extremist organisation, forging official documents, and attempting an illegal crossing of the state border. he was transferred to a penal colony to serve his sentence, and his release date was set for 30 june 2016. on 27 may 2016 the migration authorities dismissed his request, referring to the fact that a crime had been committed in russia. there is no information in the case file on whether the applicant lodged such a request or whether he appealed against the decision of 27 may 2016. the applicant also challenged the decision of 16 may 2016 in court. it concluded that the claims concerning the above risks were speculative. the russian government were immediately informed about the measure. on 22 july and 7 october 2016 the investigative committee informed the applicant’s representative that the request fell outside of its competence, and it was transferred to the prosecutor general’s office. on 26 july and 2 september 2016 the prosecutor general’s office informed the applicant’s representative that no extradition decision had been issued because the prosecution in respect of the charges in uzbekistan was time-barred; and that they had been informed about the interim measure indicated by the court only on 1 july 2016, after the deportation had taken place. on 27 october 2017 the district court dismissed the complaints once again. the applicant’s representative appealed on 7 november 2017.
the applicant was born in 1985 and lives in gdańsk. on 16 june 2011 at 7.40 p.m. the applicant was arrested at his friends’ flat in tczew on suspicion of kidnapping. the applicant attached a copy of the medical examination report of 17 june 2011 and photographs documenting his injuries. in the police car, an edw was continually used on the applicant’s back until he started suffocating. the prosecutor noted that owing to a technical error it had not been possible to examine the cctv footage dated 17 june 2011 from the gdańsk appellate prosecutor’s office, where the applicant had been questioned. the prosecutor heard evidence from other individuals arrested with the applicant. she requested that the forensic expert establish, inter alia, what injuries the applicant had sustained in connection with his arrest. officer r. had been sitting on the applicant. officer r. stated that each discharge had released direct current for a few seconds. the applicant also underlined that all the arrestees had consistently described brutal behaviour on the part of the police officers. the medical evidence did not clarify the relevant uncertainties. in his annual report for the year 2017, the ombudsman also addressed the issue of the use of edws by the police. the guidance found by the cpt in some countries, to the effect that these weapons may be used when law enforcement officials are facing violence – or a threat of violence – of such a level that they would need to use force to protect themselves or others, is so broad as to leave the door open to a disproportionate response. further, the incident should be the subject of a detailed report to a higher authority. this could consist of systematically informing, at regular intervals, an independent body responsible for supervising law enforcement agencies of all cases of resort to edw.
the applicant was born in 1985 and is currently serving a life sentence for murder in mountjoy prison, dublin. in the early hours of 9 november 2008, the applicant killed a man in limerick. the following day, 25 february 2009, the police continued to question the applicant. the next interview, the fourteenth, commenced at 5.32 p.m. in the first minutes, the police asked the applicant about text messages sent to ms g. around the time of the murder. at the end, counsel for both sides made submissions to the judge in regard to the questions of inducement of threat, oppression and fairness. with regard to the questioning by [the police officers], the court finds that the interviews were conducted in a careful, patient and structured way in which some of the results of the [police] investigation were gradually revealed to barry doyle. notwithstanding the context in which they occurred, ... even if these promptings could possibly amount to an inducement when objectively viewed they were not immediately acted on and their effect, whatever it may have been, was dissipated by the consultation barry doyle had with his solicitor and his solicitor’s interaction with [the police]. it agreed with the position taken by the trial judge that the fact that the applicant had consulted with his lawyer immediately before admitting the crime in the fifteenth interview represented a significant interruption in the process of police questioning. as a matter of constitutional law, the concept of basic fairness of process applied from the time of arrest, as the supreme court had recently affirmed in a judgment that took into account the relevant convention jurisprudence – dpp v. gormley and dpp v. white, [2014] iesc 17 (“gormley”). he then referred to several factors – including the evidence of remorse, the fact that the applicant limited his admissions to his own role, the fact that he did not retract his statement, and the gesture involving the beads – which constituted material on which the decision of the trial judge could reasonably be made. on the issue of the presence of the solicitor during questioning, he first rejected the applicant’s argument that the amount of contact he had had with his solicitor during the period of detention did not amount to reasonable access. reality, as it now stands, must be faced up to.” 30460/13, 9 april 2015; simons v. belgium (dec.), he then summarised the position in the different jurisdictions of the united kingdom, noting that in each of them provision was made for solicitors to be present during questioning. gormley has not asserted that right to its full extent but has asserted only a right to have a lawyer to advise him, in custody, before the questioning starts.
the applicant was born in 1954 and lives in marmarashen village. on 9 april 2007 gegham sergoyan underwent surgery on a toe on his left foot. on the same date the military unit doctor temporarily discharged gegham sergoyan from his duties until 16 april 2007. was the duty officer in charge of the military unit. it was indicated in the medical record that, according to the transfer diagnosis, gegham sergoyan had suffered ballistic trauma to the cervical vertebrae. he had shot gegham sergoyan with the gun attributed to him. 1 garrison military prosecutor’s office ordered a post-mortem examination of gegham sergoyan’s body to be conducted in yerevan by forensic medical expert a.l.d. on 15 may 2007 the investigator made a decision to involve the applicant in the proceedings as gegham sergoyan’s legal heir. on 14 september 2007 the charges against h.g. in the course of the proceedings before the syunik regional court the applicant lodged a civil claim against the republic of armenia, namely the ministry of defence and the ministry of finance of armenia, seeking compensation in the amount of eur 300,000 for non-pecuniary damage sustained as a result of the murder of his only son, which had caused him deep sorrow and severe mental suffering: he had lost the normal rhythm of life and his health had deteriorated. several officers of the military unit stated that to their knowledge gegham sergoyan had never had any problems with lieutenant h.g. guilty as charged and sentenced him to fifteen years’ imprisonment. on 2 february 2010 the court of appeal rejected the applicant’s appeal and upheld the judgment of the regional court. article 104 § 1 provides that murder shall be punishable by imprisonment from six to twelve years. the civil code was supplemented by new articles 162.1 and 1087.2 which regulate the procedure for claiming compensation for non-pecuniary damage.
the applicant was born in 1949 and lives in belgrade. on 9 may 2005 the applicant lodged a claim seeking ownership of 265 shares of the company tri grozda a.d. on 14 september 2007 the belgrade court of first instance delivered a judgment in favour of the applicant. on 13 december 2011 the belgrade court of appeal reversed the judgment of 14 september 2007, and rejected the applicant’s claim. on 3 april 2012 the applicant lodged a constitutional appeal, complaining of a violation of his right to a trial within a reasonable time and requesting compensation in that regard. on 23 september 2014 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a trial within a reasonable time. it held that the finding of a violation had constituted sufficient just satisfaction in the particular circumstances of the present case for the following reasons. first, the nominal value of the impugned shares was only slightly higher than 200 euros. the case was thus of minor importance for the applicant. secondly, it considered that the applicant had contributed to the length of the civil proceedings by failing to lodge a constitutional appeal earlier.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in alphen aan den rijn. on 19 august 2009 the applicant, who was then nineteen years of age, was arrested on suspicion of distribution of child pornography (three pictures of a 16-year-old girl) in april of that year. he was informed that he had the right to consult a lawyer. he told the officers, inter alia, that he had a brain disorder: he had cavernous hemangiomas (clusters of abnormal blood vessels) in his brain and spinal cord. the applicant met with his lawyer later that day. at the beginning of the interview, the applicant stated that he would prefer to have his lawyer present. he was told that this was not possible and the interview was started. they asked him whether he was having an epileptic fit. the police officers then decided to interrupt the interview and call a doctor. a final interview was held with the applicant on 21 august 2009. the applicant was released from police custody on 21 august 2009. the applicant lodged an appeal (hoger beroep). as regards the claim that the applicant ought to have been assisted by a lawyer during the police interviews, the court of appeal held as follows:“at the hearing on appeal counsel submitted that at the time of the police interviews the suspect had the mental age of a 15 or 16-year old, and also that he was suffering from a brain disorder which may have caused him to have epileptic seizures. the court of appeal considers that this was the correct course of action. the court of appeal does not agree with counsel that the interviewing officers ought reasonably to have considered the suspect as vulnerable or underage.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in marusino, moscow region. on 28 march 2014 the town court extended the applicant’s detention until 18 august 2014. on 18 september 2014 the moscow regional court upheld the decision of 18 august 2014 on appeal. from 21 february 2014 to 10 february 2015 the applicant was detained in remand prison sizo-6 in the moscow region. according to the government, the personal space afforded to the applicant during her detention in the remand prison was approximately 3.27 sq. she also received a bowl, a spoon and a mug. the inmates were allowed to take a shower once a week for at least fifteen minutes. the applicant was provided with access to a radio, books and board games. the food provided to the inmates was in compliance with the relevant norms and standards. the walls were covered with mould and fungus. on numerous occasions it was completely turned off. upon her return to the remand prison, the applicant was placed in a holding cell measuring 1 by 1.5 m with three other inmates. on 21 january 2015 the tverskoy district court of moscow dismissed a complaint by the applicant against the prosecutor’s decision of 10 october 2014, without considering the merits. on 6 may 2015 the district court dismissed the applicant’s complaint against the decision of 10 october 2014. on an unspecified date the applicant, being a belorussian citizen, applied for a residency permit in russia.
details concerning the applicants can be found in the appendix. the proceedings were later terminated without the applicant being prosecuted. by an order of the office of the prosecutor general of 13 may 2008, the applicants were given until 3 november 2008 to inspect the criminal file. their representatives (except the first applicant’s counsel) submitted requests to the office of the prosecutor general, asking it to remove the material which the prosecution did not intend to rely on from the criminal file, and to specify which evidence was intended to prove which facts. the office of the prosecutor general dismissed those requests, explaining that the applicants had been presented with all the material gathered during the pre-trial proceedings so that they could assess which material was relevant from the perspective of defence rights. during the pre-trial proceedings, the second applicant discovered a surveillance device in his office on 25 september 2005. as two of the accused – the fourth applicant and e.t. – but the representatives of the second and the fourth applicants objected to the first applicant’s case being separated in this way. by a judgment of 19 june 2012 the harju county court acquitted the applicants of the charges against them. on 17 december 2013 the supreme court granted the applicants leave to appeal. as for the period to be taken into account, the supreme court considered that the relevant period had not necessarily started running from the date when the first steps in the criminal proceedings had been taken, but rather when the applicants could be considered to be subject to a “charge”, or when they had been otherwise substantially affected by actions taken by the prosecuting authorities. the presentation of the statement of charges had not hindered defence rights either. this was so because the investigating authority was not competent to assess the adequacy of reasoning. with regard to the reasoning in the prosecutors’ decisions to authorise surveillance activities, the supreme court observed that, despite the requirement – deriving from article 145 of the ccrp – that such decisions also had to be reasoned, they contained only an operative part and no reasoning at all. judge kergandberg addressed the requirement to provide reasons for decisions authorising secret surveillance.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived either in the chechen republic or the republic of ingushetia, a region neighbouring chechnya. on the morning of 3 february 2002, when the applicant came to visit her husband in the vovd as usual, she was informed that mr ibragim idrisov had been released the day before, on 2 february 2002. it appears that the investigation is still pending. on 31 december 2003 the nazran town prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. on 29 october 2005 a police officer from zavodskoy district police station interviewed ms s., the sister of mr rizvan bashayev. at about 11 p.m. on 17 may 2005 mr khizir galtakov and his friend mr k. were in the village of znamenskoye, chechnya, at the intersection of shosseynaya street and the road between ken‑yurt and bratskoye, when a group of about six armed men in camouflage uniforms and balaclavas arrived in a grey uaz vehicle without registration plates. the whereabouts of mr khizir galtakov remain unknown. immediately after the abduction, the first applicant went to the argun military commander’s office, where one of the officers confirmed that his son had been detained by military servicemen. on 19 february 2010 the second applicant requested that the investigation be resumed and that she be informed of any progress in the proceedings. on 29 september 2003 the investigation was suspended for failure to establish the identity of the perpetrators. on 20 july 2010 the first applicant was granted victim status and questioned. on 22 july 2010 the investigators questioned the third applicant. the military commander informed him in reply that such an examination was impossible because the officers of the fsb were carrying out special operations in that area. she affirmed the account of the abduction given above. on 24 february 2012 the investigation was suspended.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in dmitrovgrad. she also alleged that there had been a number of assassination attempts planned against her. on 15 january 2014 the head of the inter-municipal police department forwarded the following letter to the psychiatric and narcological service:“following receipt of numerous complaints, the [police department] asks you to examine (check) [the applicant] ... at her place of residence. she constantly talks about conspiracies against her. complaints lodged by residents and entrepreneurs about her aggressive behaviour have grown in number. [ the applicant] might cause harm to others.” on 28 and 29 january 2014 a psychiatrist, sav., on 30 january 2014 a psychiatrist visited the applicant at her place of residence. on 31 january 2014 the psychiatrist informed the police that the applicant did not have any psychiatric disorders. on 12 march 2014, in response to the applicant’s complaint, the dimitrovgrad town court found the psychiatrist’s actions unlawful. on 29 april 2014 the town court dismissed the applicant’s complaint. the court found that the actions of the police had had a basis in law. the police had conducted an inquiry, which did not confirm the applicant’s allegations. lastly, the court reasoned that the fact that, in response to the police’s request for information, the psychiatric service had examined the applicant unlawfully had no bearing on the lawfulness of the police’s actions. on 22 july 2014 the ulyanovsk regional court upheld the judgment of 29 april 2014 on appeal.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived in the chechen republic and the republic of ingushetia, a region neighbouring chechnya. on 10 june 2001 the grozny district prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. on 10 august 2001 the investigation in the case was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. it appears that the investigation is still pending. then they forced mr suliman isayev and mr ramzan isayev into one of the vehicles and drove away with them in the direction of the baku to rostov-on-don highway. she confirmed the circumstances of the abduction of her three sons as described above. on 1 december 2003 the investigators questioned the first applicant’s eldest son, mr kh.i. on 17 may 2007 the grozny district prosecutor’s office informed the first applicant and the ngo memorial that the investigation had been suspended and that the operational search activities were in progress in order to establish the whereabouts of mr suliman isayev and mr ramzan isayev. on 19 august 2005 the first applicant was granted victim status and questioned. the whereabouts of mr mayr-ali shavanov and mr lema shavanov have remained unknown ever since. it is unclear whether the applicants were informed of this decision. the second applicant is the mother of mr andarbek abubakarov, who was born in 1975. on 30 may 2003 the forensic examination established that the note received by the applicants (see paragraph 213 above) could have been partially written by mr said-magomed abzayev. on 13 november 2003 the sixth applicant asked the investigators to resume the proceedings. on 12 march 2011 the investigation was suspended again.
the applicant company is a limited liability company incorporated under moldovan law. on 24 december 2012 and 21 june 2013 respectively the applicant company initiated two sets of civil proceedings challenging two decisions issued by the state tax inspectorate of străşeni (inspectoratul fiscal de stat străşeni – “the inspectorate”) under which it had been fined for non‑compliance with the vat reporting regulations. on 5 september 2013 these two sets of proceedings were joined. on 26 december 2013 the străşeni district court upheld the applicant company’s claims and overturned the impugned decisions. the representative of the inspectorate was not present when the judgment was delivered, despite having been duly informed of the date and the time of the hearing. on 5 february 2014 the inspectorate lodged an appeal against the judgment of the străşeni district court. no request for an extension of the legal time-limit for lodging an appeal was made. in a decision of 3 september 2014 the chişinău court of appeal calculated the applicable time-limit and found that it had expired on 27 january 2014 and, accordingly, that the inspectorate had been late in lodging its appeal. it therefore decided to strike the appeal out of its list of cases as time-barred. the inspectorate lodged an appeal on points of law against that decision. it argued that the chişinău court of appeal could not strike out the appeal after having commenced its examination of the merits of the case. on 8 october 2014 the supreme court of justice quashed the chişinău court of appeal’s strike-out decision of 3 september 2014. without contesting the court of appeal’s calculation of the time-limit for lodging the appeal, the supreme court of justice accepted the argument put forward by the inspectorate and found that the court of appeal had breached the rules of procedure by adopting a strike-out decision after having started an examination of the merits of the case. ultimately, the case was referred back to the chişinău court of appeal for re-examination. on 10 june 2015 the supreme court of justice declared an appeal on points of law lodged by the applicant company inadmissible.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in tolyatti. the post-mortem examination (in a report of 1 june 2007) established that z. had died as a result of mechanical asphyxia caused by deliberate self‑harm by means of hanging. had committed suicide by hanging herself. had regularly subjected z. to beatings and humiliation. on 19 september 2011 criminal proceedings were instituted against ch. on 20 september 2011, however, the deputy prosecutor of the nenetskiy autonomous region set aside the above decision. following another round of pre-investigation inquiries, on 24 october 2011 the institution of a criminal investigation into the death of z. was again refused under article 24 § 1 (2) of the code of criminal procedure, in view of a lack of the constituent elements of a crime under article 110 of the criminal code in ch. amounting to inhuman or degrading treatment. the bruises and abrasions on z.’s face and body could have originated during a heated altercation with ch. furthermore, z. had not been fully dependent on ch. she could also have sought medical assistance, and/or complained about ch. following a complaint by the applicant, on 10 september 2013 the town court found the decision of 24 october 2011 lawful and justified. under article 117 § 1 of the criminal code. on 7 july 2010 the applicant was granted victim status in the proceedings. on 5 june 2009 the naryan-mar town court dismissed the applicant’s claim.
the applicant was born in 1958 and lives in moscow. from 1995 until his retirement on 21 august 2006 he was a prosecutor of the north-western district of moscow. on 24 april 2008 the applicant was arrested and remanded in custody pending investigation and trial (see valeriy samoylov v. russia, no. on 23 july 2009 the prosecutor completed the investigation in respect of fifteen suspects, including the applicant, and transferred the case to the moscow city court. the case file contains information classified as state secrets and the disclosure of this information might have a serious adverse effect on the interests of society and the state.” on 24 may 2010 the jury delivered a guilty verdict in the applicant’s case. the applicant appealed, complaining in particular about the lack of a public hearing. on 16 november 2010 the supreme court of the russian federation held an appeal hearing. on an unspecified date the applicant and his wife brought a civil action for damages against the television channel, arguing, inter alia, that the respondent company had failed to obtain their consent for disclosure of their personal data, including the tax information and the footage of their house and its interior. on 18 may 2010 the ostankinskiy district court dismissed the applicant’s claims in full. ... according to the investment agreement ... the value of the house was estimated at ... usd 60,000 ..., which did not include the cost of the interior, including the installation of a winding staircase and a jacuzzi ... [one of the plaintiffs’ witnesses] submitted that [the applicant] had been offered a reduced price for the house because of his friendship with the management of the construction company ... [the court] finds it incompatible with the standing of the prosecutor. [ this is justified by the public interest. the question raised in the programme about the public servant’s income and the value of his property is a matter of public interest. the veracity of his assessment cannot be subject to verification given that such verification should be carried out [in the course of the criminal investigation]. on 20 december 2010 the city court upheld the judgment of 18 may 2010 on appeal.
the details of the applicants are available in the annex. the applicants are owners of a property situated at 8, flat 1, old prison street, senglea, (hereinafter “the property”) which they inherited from their ancestors. on 1 september 1986 the government issued a requisition order on the property. by means of a president’s declaration of 27 october 1989, that is after the property was demolished, the commissioner of land formally took over the property under title of possession and use (see relevant domestic law). on 22 march 1999, the commissioner of land submitted a notice to treat to the land arbitration board (lab), by means of which the sum of mtl 15.62 (approximately eur 36.39) per year was offered to the owners (the zammit family) as a yearly recognition rent. on 10 august 2005 the applicants’ ex‑parte architect estimated the fair rent of the property in 2005 at the equivalent of eur 229.64 per year, and its sale value at mtl 7,500 (approximately eur 17,470.30) – the property having been demolished, his estimate was based on the plans of the building from which it transpired that it had a depth of 14.5 metres and a width of 5.5 metres. by a decision of 7 march 2012, acknowledging that the property had been demolished prior to the formal taking by the government, the lab considered that it was inconceivable that rent be paid for a property which had been demolished in order to be built anew, and that the right course of action would have been to acquire the property by outright purchase. it rejected the remainder of the claims, and left the liquidation of damage to be established in the final judgment. however, the recognition rent established in line with lab policies, which was not subject to any future increases, was too low and thus disproportionate. costs were to be shared equally between the parties. however, even if this were not so, and that it had been demolished when it was under title of possession and use, the demolition would still have been unlawful, since according to law it was not possible to demolish a property under a title of possession and use the rights attached to which were limited. the measure thus became lawful, and pursued the general interest of slum clearance. thus, given the small size of the property, the area in which it was in, the fact that it had been demolished at the expense of the government and the fact that the recognition rent was adequate, the constitutional court considered that eur 1,500 was an adequate amount of compensation to be shared by the applicants jointly. the property has been rebuilt as apartments for social housing. (5) public tenure shall of its nature endure in perpetuity, without prejudice to any consolidation by mutual consent or otherwise according to law of that tenure with the residual ownership of the land; and the recognition rent payable in respect thereof shall in every case be unalterable, without prejudice to the effects of any consolidation, total or partial.
mr mammadov is an azerbaijani national who has been involved in various political organisations and local and international non-governmental organisations for a number of years. in november 2014 mr mammadov lodged a cassation appeal with the supreme court. in the first mammadov judgment of 22 may 2014, which became final on 13 october 2014, the court found violations of articles 5 § 1(c), 5 § 4, 6 § 2, as well as article 18 taken in conjunction with article 5, in relation to criminal charges brought against mr mammadov in february 2013 for denouncing on his blog the authorities’ version of the ismayilli riots of 23 january 2013 and his subsequent pre-trial detention (see paragraphs 9 to 18 above). a cassation appeal brought by him against the appellate judgment was pending (see paragraphs 19 to 22). in response to questions asked by the deputies about whether those amendments would assist mr mammadov, the government indicated their position that the court’s findings of a violation in the first mammadov judgment concerned the pre-trial phase of proceedings and a second application was pending concerning the criminal proceedings. in the second mammadov judgment, cited above, the court found a violation of article 6 § 1 in connection with his trial and conviction; events also examined by the committee of ministers in the execution proceedings for the first mammadov judgment (see paragraphs 45 to 48 above). the circumstances on which this previous finding of the court was based remain unchanged in the present case. it is only “[i]njury ... caused by the internationally wrongful act of a state” for which full reparation must be made. the following information shall be accessible to the public unless the committee decides otherwise in order to protect legitimate public or private interests:a.  information and documents relating thereto provided by a high contracting party to the committee of ministers pursuant to article 46, paragraph 2, of the convention;b.  information and documents relating thereto provided to the committee of ministers, in accordance with the present rules, by the injured party, by non‑governmental organisations or by national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights. if there has been no response within this time limit, the communication shall be transmitted to the committee of ministers but shall not be made public. (b)  cases pending supervision before the committee of ministers where the court found a violation of article 18 in conjunction with article 5(i)  individual measures 106. in the four cases pending supervision where there has been a violation of article 18 in conjunction with article 5, the committee of ministers has examined three elements taken by respondent states as individual measures – payment of the just satisfaction, erasure of the negative consequences of the impugned decision, and release of the applicants following the judgment. in its decision at that meeting the committee:“... welcomed the efforts made by the russian authorities aimed at aligning russian legislation and practice with the convention requirements under article 5 of the convention”. the measures that follow are designed to improve and accelerate the execution process. none the less, it appeared necessary to give the committee of ministers, as the competent organ for supervising execution of the court’s judgments, a wider range of means of pressure to secure execution of judgments.
the applicant was born in 1968 and lives in bor. the proceedings began on 30 march 1992 when the applicant brought a lawsuit against third persons concerning the execution of a contract. on 19 june 1997 the first-instance court accepted the applicant’s claim. on 30 october 1997 the appeal court quashed the decision on legal costs, remitted that issue to the first-instance court for a retrial and upheld the remainder of the first-instance judgment. the first-instance court subsequently rendered three decisions on the costs of the proceedings on 23 july 1998, 19 february 1999 and 3 march 2000. all of these decisions were quashed on appeal. on 5 february 2013 the first-instance court rendered a fourth decision on the issue of legal costs awarding the applicant approximately 2,000 euros (eur). according to the information on the file, the proceedings are currently pending before the second-instance court. on 13 march 2013 the constitutional court found a violation of the applicant’s right to a hearing within a reasonable time and awarded him eur 300 for the non-pecuniary damage suffered in this regard. furthermore, the constitutional court ordered the applicant’s proceedings to be expedited.
she lives in vilnius and has three children. that birth passed without complications and without the need for medical intervention. accordingly, the ministry had no plans to initiate changes to secondary legislation that would regulate the provision of midwifery services at home. the first applicant states in her application that on 11 july 2012 she “[gave] birth at home without qualified healthcare assistance and risked her and the baby’s life and health”. she noted in her application that she had given birth at home in 2009 and 2010, with the assistance of the unlicensed doula, j.i.š. the applicant stated to the court that during her third pregnancy, having had positive experiences during the first two home births, she could not imagine herself giving birth outside her home, since this seemed to her “the safest, most tranquil [environment] ... for the most intimate of occasions”. all the hospitals refused, on the grounds that in lithuania there was no legal basis on which to provide medical assistance during a home birth. this request was refused by the ministry on 16 october 2012 for the same reasons as those given to the first and second applicants (see paragraphs 8 and 9 above). given that in her request the third applicant insisted on relying on the court’s judgment in ternovszky (cited above), the ministry of health consulted the ministry of justice on the matter. in her application to the court of 19 october 2012, the third applicant, like the second applicant, stated that she was “firmly resolved to give birth at home, irrespective of whether she would receive qualified assistance during the birth”. on 19 june 2012 the lithuanian fellowship of midwives and gynaecologists replied that despite significant worldwide changes in the sphere of maternity care, the question of planned home births remained sensitive and controversial. holding that she had revived the old profession of doula, which although not regulated in lithuania, was also not forbidden by law. under article 202 § 2 of the criminal code. had neither a medical education nor a licence to provide such services. by a ruling of 12 june 2018, an enlarged chamber (seven judges) of the supreme court noted that activities relating to home births, as a phenomenon, had been neither criminalised nor forbidden by law in lithuania.
a list of applicants is set out in the appendix. and a first floor of a little more than 100 sq.m., with roof terraces, located in the primary town centre. the applicants became owners either through inheritance or donation from their parents on various dates between 1991 and 2011. on 14 august 1978 the applicants’ ascendants entered into a new lease agreement with the band club, whereby they willingly rented property a and part of the garden of property b (hereinafter, jointly referred to as “the rented property”) to the band club for 120 maltese liras annually ((mtl) – approximately eur 279.52), to be paid six months in advance. on 28 october 1980 and again on 10 january 1983 l.g. complained with the band club about its use of the rented property as a discotheque and as a restaurant. in 2004 and 2005 the band club had requested that it be able to rent a further part of the garden of property b and for it to purchase the part of the property that was being utilized as the seat of the club. on 15 july 2015 the civil court (first hall), in its constitutional competence, inter alia, found that the owners had suffered a violation of their rights as protected under article 1 of protocol no. the court noted that, in 1923, when the owners had entered into the first rental agreement with the band club, the laws enacting the special dispositions concerning renting a property as a club had not yet come into force. the court considered that the rental agreement of 14 august 1978 was an extension of the first rental agreement - the first agreement having been entered into before the special dispositions had come into force. however, some form of compensation was due. on 26 june 2015 the constitutional court, upheld the attorney general’s appeal and concluded that the owners had not suffered a violation of their rights as protected by article 1 of protocol no. the intentions of the parties in the original agreement were set aside, and were now regulated by means of a new agreement. therefore the owners had not suffered a violation of their property rights.
the applicants are russian nationals who at the material time lived in the neighbouring regions of the chechen republic and the republic of ingushetia. the whereabouts of mr shamil amirkhadzhiyev have remained unknown ever since. on 14 september 2005 the applicant was granted victim status and questioned. it appears that the investigation is still pending. the first applicant is his mother, the second applicant is his brother and the third applicant is his sister. the service personnel picked up the injured man and took him away to an unknown destination. they confirmed the circumstances of the abduction as described above. according to the applicants, on several occasions between 2002 and 2005 they complained of the police’s failure to take necessary investigative steps to the grozny district prosecutor’s office. on 24 january 2006 the grozny district prosecutor’s office opened criminal case no. after checking them, the service personnel handcuffed mr chapsurkayev. on 24 september 2002 the investigation was suspended. according to the applicants, between 2002 and 2008 they contacted the investigators and other authorities asking for information on the progress of the investigation. on 31 august 2012 that court terminated the proceedings, having found that a day earlier the investigation had been resumed. it was resumed on 18 february 2008 and suspended again on 18 march 2008. on 4 september 2012 the applicants requested that the investigators inform them of the progress in the investigation.
details of the applicants can be found in the appendix. he explained that he was sending his letter by registered mail because he had not received a reply to his previous letter with the same content. in addition, he asked the applicants to inform him in the event that they did not want to pursue their application before the court. the administration of the edirne f-type prison believed the contents of the letter of 14 september 2005 to be suspect and therefore lodged a request with the public prosecutor on 21 september 2005 for a decision to refer the matter to an enforcement court to determine whether the material sent to the applicants included objectionable content. it decided that, under section 5 of law no. the decision was served on the applicants on 17 november 2005. on 26 december 2005 the edirne chief prosecutor’s office decided not to prosecute the governor in relation to mr tamer’s complaints, since the letter in question had been withheld from the applicants as a result of the implementation of the edirne enforcement court’s decision of 25 october 2005. on 22 february 2006 the registry of the court sent a letter to mr tamer acknowledging receipt of his letter dated 23 november 2005, addressed to the committee of ministers of the council of europe, as indicating the applicants’ intention to lodge an application with the court and invited him to submit a duly completed application form. on 19 october 2006 the applicants’ representative sent an application form to the court. their application was registered as application no. on 1 june 2007 the edirne assize court dismissed an objection lodged by the second and fourth applicants and upheld the edirne enforcement court’s decision. 5275 on the enforcement of sentences and preventive measures as in force at the material time provided as follows:section 59 – right to consultation with a lawyer or a notary“...(2)  consultation with a lawyer or a notary may be carried out in working hours except for weekends and public holidays, in a place reserved for that purpose within the sight but not hearing of officials. ...(4)  [as amended by section 5 of law no. 5351] a lawyer’s documents and files related to defence and his or her records of the meetings with his or her client shall not be subject to examination. (3)  if letters, faxes and telegrams to prisoners are a threat to order and security in the prison, single out serving officials as targets, permit communication with terrorist or criminal organisations, contain false or misleading information likely to cause panic in individuals or institutions, or contain threats or insults, they shall not be forwarded to the addressee.
the applicants are russian nationals who, at the material time, lived in the chechen republic or ingushetia. the abduction took place in the presence of several witnesses. in the meantime the investigators requested various law-enforcement authorities, including the fsb, and detention facilities to provide them with information about the possible arrest and detention of mr aslan abubakarov. subsequently the investigation was suspended on 14 march and 30 november 2007 and 11 july 2008 and then resumed on 31 october 2007, 11 june 2008 and 13 september 2011 respectively, before being suspended again on 14 september 2011. there is no information about any further developments in the proceedings. there is no information about any further developments in the case. the second, third and fourth applicants are his children. at about 7.30 a.m. on 20 july 2003 several armed servicemen in camouflage uniforms, some of whom were in balaclavas, arrived in vaz‑21099 and uaz vehicles at the tenth applicant’s house in avtury, chechnya, searched the premises and took mr sayd-ali sharshuyev away. the respondent authorities replied that they had no information about their arrests or detention. on an unspecified date (apparently in august 2003) one of the investigators spoke with the head of the chechen president’s security service, mr s. he stated that on 20 july 2003 the security service had conducted a special operation in avtury. on 17 june 2009 the applicant asked the investigators to grant her victim status in the criminal proceedings. by a letter dated 18 june 2009 they informed her that the investigation had been suspended, but that operational search measures were ongoing. the men forced mr a.m. into one of those cars and drove off in the direction of minutka square, grozny. on 7 may 2005 the investigation in the case was suspended for failure to identify the perpetrators. on 10 may 2012 the applicant requested permission to inspect the investigation file.
the applicant was born in 1960 and lives in zgornja korena. the applicant was given a suspended prison sentence. the judgment became final on 17 june 2011. on 9 april 2004 the applicant was granted a licence to work as a liquidator in insolvency proceedings under the compulsory composition, bankruptcy and liquidation act (hereinafter “the bankruptcy act”) then in force. his name was entered in the register of liquidators maintained by the ministry of justice. three days following the decision the applicant’s name was removed from the registry of liquidators. he argued that over the years in this profession, he had gained extensive experience and had built up his reputation. on 7 november 2012 the administrative court dismissed the applicant’s action, finding that the revocation of his licence had been entirely lawful. as regards the applicant’s assertion that the measure should not have been applied retroactively, it found that the time when the offence had been committed was not to be considered relevant since the measure in question pertained to the final conviction, thereby respecting the presumption of innocence. moreover, the courts had disregarded the fact that only a suspended prison sentence had been imposed on him and that the legal distinction to include all criminal offences committed with intent was arbitrary and not relevant to the aim of maintaining public confidence in the profession at issue. on 6 november 2013 the constitutional court decided not to consider the applicant’s constitutional complaint, relying on the second paragraph of section 55(b) of the constitutional court act (see paragraph 36 below). from november 2014 to november 2015, he was employed through a programme for older workers. on 27 june 2013 the applicant lodged an administrative action against the above decision. the applicant further submitted that he had lost his job virtually overnight and that the companies which had provided support services to him, such as accounting, had also been seriously affected by the measure. subsequently, the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in paola. he also stated that he accepted to help the applicant move a photocopier (which had been found overturned on the floor) and that he had seen the applicant put the server of a computer network system under the sofa of a room on the second floor, and the video recorder and the safe-deposit box in other places. was also brought to the room for questioning in the presence of the applicant. on further questioning he could not remember details of his insurance policy. however, it also noted the witness testimony of the four police officers who had questioned the applicant and carried out investigative work, including searches on the site of the alleged hold‑up. he could not confirm whether the video recorder was the same one which had been included in the system but he considered that the second tape inside was surely not the one he was recording on, on 29 january 2002. he confirmed that he did not know where the things where and, in his view, this had been a frame up against him or against his company, by someone close to him or someone who had worked for him, or a competitor. it was true that the applicant had repeatedly and categorically denied any wrongdoing; however, he was not reliable in the light of the evasive and hesitant way in which he replied to police questions concerning his business, profitability, rents, and profits of the previous year. the court noted, however, that the first‑instance judgment in that case had been overturned by the constitutional court which, on 12 april 2011, found a violation of the rights of the individual concerned as the lack of legal assistance deprived objectively the applicant of a fair trial. on appeal, by a judgment of 8 october 2012 the constitutional court reversed the first-instance judgment. thus, it could not reject the complaint as premature. accepting that the case was not premature, and in the light of the criminal courts’ referral pending criminal proceedings against mr fenech, it found that the mr fenech’s right to a fair trial had been breached only in relation to the statement given to the police, but not the statement given before the magistrate, which could thus be admitted as evidence in the criminal proceedings against him. by a judgment of 9 april 2014 the civil court (first hall) rejected his complaint, noting that mr pace had been questioned fifteen years after the murder, and thus had had plenty of time to seek legal advice. subsequently, on 14 october 2011, he filed an application before the civil court (first hall) in its constitutional competence claiming that his case was based on the incriminating statements he had given to the police at a time when he was not yet being legally assisted. matthew lanzon vs commissioner of police, constitutional court judgment of 25 february 2013 72.
the applicant sigurður einarsson was born in 1960 and lives in reykjavík. the applicant ólafur ólafsson was born in 1957 and lives in pully, switzerland. the case was submitted to the reykjavík district court on 7 march 2012 and the main hearing took place from 4 to 14 november 2013. on 4 may 2012 the district court dismissed the request, noting that the prosecution had stated that the data in question was accessible in the premises of the special prosecutor, where the defence could review it and, if appropriate, request that documents be submitted to the court as evidence. subsequently, the special prosecutor granted access to the data in question upon request. at a court session on 24 january 2013 the prosecution submitted a large part of the documents requested by the applicant hreiðar már sigurðsson, as well as transcripts of certain phone calls which had been unknown to the prosecution until after the court proceedings began. on 7 march 2013 the prosecution submitted further evidence requested by the defence, as well as further transcripts of phone calls which it had received after submitting the case to the court. however, an employee responsible for documenting the phone calls had made the mistake of not mentioning the phone calls in question when writing a memorandum, and as a result they had been omitted from a list of phone calls that should be deleted. dated 19 september 2016 in which he stated that his wife, mrs s., had been appointed vice-chair of the board of the fme on 1 january 2007 and that she had resigned on 25 january 2009. these cases were entrusted to other employees who reported directly to the resolution and winding-up committees. finally, with regard to the applicants’ assertion that the defence had not been notified that he had been head of kaupþing’s legal department, mr k. observed that he was personally acquainted with all of the defence lawyers in the case and had worked with three of them. moreover, he had been in contact with two of them while head of the legal department. denial of access may be referred to a judge. if the witness is located far from the court or if attending the court would otherwise cause him significant inconvenience, the judge may decide that testimony is to be given during the court session by telephone ot other telecommunications methods, provided that the testimony is given in such a manner that everyone present during the session is able to hear the testimony. the police are under an obligation to comply with such instructions from the prosecutor.
the applicants are:(1) ms umidat mukhtarova, who was born in 1942,(2) ms manash mukhtarova, who was born in 1965,(3) ms mariya umarova, who was born in 1950,(4) mr lechi umarov, who was born in 1942,(5) ms zara umarova, who was born in 1977. they put mr mukhtarov and mr umarov on the ground threatening them with weapons, then forced them into the vehicles and drove off in the direction of ordzhonikidzevskaya village. on 16 may 2008 an interview with mr umarov appeared in a television programme broadcast by the russian television news channel ntv (нтв). immediately after the abduction the first applicant informed the authorities thereof and requested that criminal proceedings be opened. the father of mr sharpudi mukhtarov, was granted victim status and questioned. the investigators’ decision stated that mr mukhtarov and mr umarov had been abducted together. on 14 august 2008 the investigation was resumed. on 15 august 2008 the first applicant was granted victim status upon her request (see paragraph 34 below). on 24 november 2008 the investigation was resumed following the second applicant’s submissions to the investigators about the tv interview with mr umarov (see paragraph 35 below). on 22 january 2004 the investigators questioned ms z.i., on 12 november 2008 the second applicant informed the investigators of the television programme in which mr zaurbek umarov had appeared (see paragraph 9 above). it is unclear whether any reply was given to this request. on 29 april 2009 the first applicant asked the investigators to provide her with copies of documents from the investigation file. she also asked to be granted victim status in the criminal case. and the ngo memorial that the criminal case into the abduction of mr mukhtarov and mr umarov had been opened on 18 november 2003, and that the investigation had been suspended.
the applicant was born in 1951 and lives in kičevo. on 2 february 2010 the applicant submitted a written statement in which he denied that he had collaborated with the state security bodies after 1944. by a decision of 12 september 2011, the lustration commission confirmed that the applicant satisfied the additional condition for the performance of the office of a judge, having confirmed that he had not collaborated with the security bodies of the past regime. from which it established that the applicant – referred to in those files as an “operational liaison” (оперативна врска) – had provided relevant information to the state security bodies in the 1970s. the handler who had drawn up some of the notes to which the lustration commission had referred in its decision, stated, inter alia:“... i drafted [the notes] (содржината) concerning [the applicant] without [his] knowledge, according to my interpretation (по мое видување) and following a spontaneous conversation that he had not requested, let alone intended to be used for a role as a secret collaborator or informant. a university professor and former intelligence officer, regarding the reliability of the documentary evidence against the applicant and whether he could be regarded as a collaborator within the meaning of the 2012 lustration act. in this respect, he submitted a copy of a statement made by v.p. referring to the information in the relevant documents (see paragraph 6 above), which it found truthful (having compared the copy documents in the applicant’s case file with the originals), the court confirmed the lustration commission’s findings that the applicant had collaborated with the security services in a conscious, secret, organised and continuous manner as a secret informant, notably as an operational liaison. ... [the applicant] had agreed to cooperate with the state security office. in reply, the commission informed him that the originals had been returned to the state archives. the reasoning provided by the lower bodies in that respect had not been sufficient. at a hearing held in private, and in the absence of the parties, on 12 june 2014, the higher administrative court dismissed the applicant’s appeal and upheld the lower court’s decision without hearing the testimony of the witnesses proposed by the applicant. on 13 november 2015 the applicant submitted audio recordings and a transcript of taped telephone conversations which allegedly involved the then chairman of the lustration commission and a member of parliament from the ruling political party. the material concerned conversations in which that member of parliament informed the chairman of the lustration commission that certain material regarding the applicant had been submitted before the commission by z.t. and asked that the proceedings be conducted as quickly as possible.
on 5 and 20 march 2007 the zagreb county state attorney’s office (županijsko državno odvjetništvo u zagrebu) asked an investigating judge of the zagreb county court (županijski sud u zagrebu) to authorise the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of m.m., on the grounds that he was suspected of drug trafficking. following an application lodged on 3 may 2007 by the zagreb county state attorney’s office, on 4 may 2007 the investigating judge of the zagreb county court authorised the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of the fourth applicant and three other persons, on the grounds that they were suspected of drug trafficking proscribed by article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code. the application refers to the police report ... of 3 may 2007 concerning the use of secret surveillance measures in respect of m.m., bearing in mind the above facts, the investigating judge [issues] an order under article 180 § 1 (1) of the code of criminal procedure ... because the stated circumstances point to there being sufficient grounds for suspecting the commission of the criminal offence proscribed under article 173 §§ 1 and 2 of the criminal code.” is obviously not satisfied with cocaine leaving those places in an uncontrolled manner. in may 2007 in zagreb, after acquiring that drug from the first applicant. on 25 march 2008 the trial court dismissed the applicants’ complaints concerning the alleged unlawfulness of the secret surveillance orders as unfounded, and proceeded with the examination of the case. the latter decision was confirmed by the supreme court (vrhovni sud republike hrvatske) on 14 may 2008. ... restricting the freedom and confidentiality of correspondence ... was necessary for conducting the criminal proceedings. a witness called by the fourth applicant. had gone to zagreb to purchase an air-conditioning device. had subsequently told him that in zagreb he had purchased drugs from some people. and not from the fourth applicant, and that this fact could be confirmed by a.p. moreover, they contended that the procedure for supervising the execution of the secret surveillance orders, which in the case at hand had been based on the code of criminal procedure, should have been based on special legislation concerning organised crime (the oscoc act).
the applicant was born in 1970 and lives in czarnowo. according to the opinions the applicant was fit to work. in july 2011 a further expert opinion was prepared. the court ordered the preparation of such an opinion. it appears that the applicant refused to undergo an examination at a psychiatric hospital. the applicant’s representative appealed and his appeal was initially rejected for formal reasons but was ultimately admitted for examination on its merits. she also repeated her application for a legal aid lawyer to be appointed. on 24 june 2013 the court sent the case file to another expert. the applicant lodged several procedural applications with the court, in particular challenging experts. on 22 may 2015 the szczecin regional court gave a judgment in which it dismissed the applicant’s appeal against the zus decision of 29 january 2010. on 25 april 2018 the court granted an application by the applicant for a legal aid lawyer for the purpose of lodging a cassation appeal. in particular, in the second of the above-mentioned decisions, the court agreed that the proceedings in the case had concentrated on the examination of the applicant’s applications for legal aid and her applications challenging the experts and judges. on 26 february 2018 the szczecin court of appeal rejected the applicant’s most recent complaint about the length of the proceedings before the court of appeal as it had not been lodged by a lawyer. 61444/00, §§ 34-46, echr 2005-v (extracts)) and rutkowski and others v. poland (nos. 72287/10 and 2 others, §§ 75-107, 7 july 2015).
on 30 november 2004 the applicant company signed a contract (“the contract”) with the ministry of finance (“the ministry”) for an investment loan, expressed in the equivalent of the national currency, with the repayments calculated in euros (во денарска противвредност пресметана во евра). clause 11 of the contract stipulated that a statutory default interest rate (затезна камата по стапка yтврдена со закон) was to be paid on all overdue repayments, which, according to an annex forming part of the contract, were expressed in euros. on 4 september 2012 a bailiff issued an enforcement order under the terms of the contract. the applicant company’s protest and appeal against the enforcement order were dismissed by both the president of the ohrid court of first instance (основен суд охрид) and by the bitola court of appeal (апелационен суд битола), with the final decision being dated 3 april 2013. on 17 may 2013 the applicant company lodged a civil claim against the ministry seeking an annulment of clause 11 of the contract, claiming that, in accordance with domestic law, interest on the repayment of loans in foreign currencies should be calculated on the basis of that foreign currency’s domestic rate (домицилна камата) instead of the statutory default interest rate. in that respect it relied on a judgment by the supreme court in which the same provision, contained in an identical contract regarding a state-granted loan to another person, had been annulled (рев1. the applicant company’s claim was dismissed by the ohrid court of first instance and the bitola court of appeal on 7 october and 13 january 2014 respectively, each holding that the loan had been approved in the national currency and therefore the statutory default interest rate applied. neither court commented as to the supreme court’s case-law. the final judgment was served on the applicant company’s representative on 31 march 2014. on 27 may 2015 insolvency proceedings were opened in respect of the applicant company. 168/2011 of 8 february 2012, рев.1 бр.74/2012 of 6 december 2012 and рев. 202/2012 of 24 october 2013, the supreme court held that interest on state-granted loans which were to be repaid in amounts expressed in a foreign currency should be calculated on the basis of that currency’s domestic interest rate. the supreme court took the stance that the loan repayment instalments were the determinative factor in the cases, and since, in those cases, the instalments had been expressed in a foreign currency, the statutory default interest rate was not applicable. the same stance was taken in two appeal court judgments (тсж бр. 828/08 of 21 may 2008 and тсж 1527/09 of 11 november 2009).
the applicant was born in 1967 and is currently detained in the kyiv pre-trial detention centre (“the sizo”). on 1 june 2017 the applicant was arrested on suspicion of kidnapping. on 6 june 2017 the applicant was placed in the kyiv sizo. on 13 december 2017 the kagarlyk court of kyiv region (“the trial court”) committed the applicant for trial. he further stated that a non‑custodial preventive measure had been applied to his two co-accused in the course of the pre-trial investigation, and the fact that they were at liberty had not obstructed the investigation. it appears from the relevant decisions that the courts did not address the above-mentioned arguments. according to the government, when he was placed in the sizo (see paragraph 9 above), the applicant did not raise any health complaints. his medical condition was assessed as being of medium gravity. he was recommended further supervision by a neurologist and sent back to the sizo. on 29 december 2017 the sizo administration informed the applicant’s defence lawyer that the sizo had no cardiologist or rehabilitation physician on its staff. medical treatment for those suffering from cardiac diseases was provided by a therapist. on 3 january 2018 the applicant’s defence lawyer requested the kyiv bureau for forensic medical examinations to carry out a forensic examination with a view to establishing, inter alia, what medical conditions the applicant was suffering from and whether he required medical treatment. in their opinion of 2 february 2018 the forensic experts concluded that the applicant was suffering from cerebrovascular disease, acute stroke (3 september 2017), discirculatory encephalopathy, and third-degree hypertension. on 11 may 2018 the sizo authorities informed the applicant’s defence lawyer that his client’s transfer for treatment would be possible if he presented relevant documentation confirming the readiness of the medical facility in question to admit the applicant for treatment. the applicant was also recommended rehabilitation treatment.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1981, 1973 and 1984 respectively. since 2004 they have been serving life sentences in correctional colonies in ukraine. on 11 july 2003 the ukrainian parliament adopted the code on the execution of sentences of ukraine (“the code”). no reference to prisoners’ gender was made in those articles. at the same time, article 18 (“correctional colonies”) provided that female life prisoners were to serve their sentences in medium-security colonies. in turn, article 139 (“medium-security correctional colonies”) provided that prisoners serving their sentences in such colonies were entitled, inter alia, to have one short visit every month and one long visit every three months. article 110 specified that a short visit from relatives or other persons could last for up to four hours and a long visit from close relatives could last for up to three days. referring, in particular, to article 151 of the code, the department further stated that male life prisoners were entitled to have one short visit every six months and that they were not entitled to have long visits. article 150, as amended, stated that persons sentenced to life imprisonment were to serve their sentences as follows: male prisoners ‑ either in maximum-security sectors of medium-security correctional colonies or in maximum-security correctional colonies; and female prisoners – either in medium-security sectors of minimum-security correctional colonies with general conditions of detention or in medium-security correctional colonies. further amendments to article 151 of the code, which were passed by parliament on 7 september 2016, entitled all life prisoners to one long visit every two months. the first applicant stated that he and his family had wished to maintain their relationships, but as the result of the absence of the right to long visits until 2014 he had had to divorce his wife. his father, grandfather and grandmother had died in 2008, 2009 and 2014 respectively and he had not been able to see them while serving his sentence. the government submitted that while serving his sentence the first applicant had received twenty-eight short visits on unspecified dates and fifteen long visits (between 17 march 2015 and 6 july 2018) from his new wife, mother and his other grandmother. his relatives had died – in particular he referred to his father having died in 2012 – and when the 2014 amendments entitled him to long visits, there had no longer been anyone to visit him. the government submitted that while serving his sentence the second applicant had had one short visit in 2005 (from his sister) and had not requested any long visits.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in skopje. an albanian national who had been in the passenger seat, was injured. was taken to hospital, where he was interviewed by the police. with photographs of potential suspects, from which he identified the applicant as the person who had fired at him and f.n. identified the applicant as the perpetrator. stated that he had been asked to work on f.n. via diplomatic means, as he had returned to albania. at the same hearing two of the applicant’s neighbours testified. the ministry again informed the trial judge that she should allow more time between hearings. he was properly summoned for another hearing, but he did not appear. on a hearing dated 29 january 2008, the trial court admitted into evidence the statement that j.t. had given before the investigating judge, stating that it had made numerous attempts to secure his attendance. the skopje court of appeal (апелационен суд скопје) quashed the judgment, finding that the lower court had not given adequate weight to the evidence provided by j.t. it reiterated its earlier findings (see paragraph 19 above), but concluded that the applicant had been guilty of the crimes on the basis of the on-site examination, the statement of j.t., on 4 july 2014, after holding a public hearing, the skopje court of appeal upheld the judgment finding that the evidence produced by j.t.
on 7 july 2000 the applicant company and the ukrvuglegeologiya state company (“the uvg”), an administrative entity of the ministry of fuel and energy of ukraine represented by its own administrative entity, the sevastopol‑based izumrud recreation centre (“the irc”), concluded a ten‑year rental agreement, under which the applicant company rented bedroom block no. by a decision of 8 december 2003 the fund included block no. on 26 december 2003 the fund’s sevastopol office adopted a decision to privatise block no. moreover, in 2005 the block was disconnected from the irc’s electricity and water supplies. 3 from its books and to reconnect it to the irc’s networks. 3 had not been eligible for privatisation. 3, having obtained title to it following its privatisation, which had not been declared invalid. on 23 august 2006 the supreme court refused to allow an appeal by the uvg against the decision of 21 june 2006. on 23 october 2006 the donetsk regional commercial court allowed a request by the applicant company and replaced the uvg with its successor, the irc state enterprise, as a party in proceedings instituted for the enforcement of the judgment of 1 february 2006 which remained unenforced. they sent a letter to the donetsk regional commercial court, asking it to clarify how the judgment of 1 february 2006 was to be enforced. it appears that they did not receive any reply and accordingly stayed the enforcement proceedings. by a judgment of 13 october 2006, the court partly allowed the claim. on 10 november 2006 the sevastopol commercial court of appeal upheld the above judgment. as to the applicant company’s objections, it stated that it was the irc state enterprise, and not the uvg, which should have been the proper respondent (counterclaimant) in the case when the judgment of 1 february 2006 was adopted, and that the applicant company had failed to prove that the same dispute with the irc state enterprise had already been decided by the courts. on 21 december 2006 the higher commercial court partly amended the judgment of 13 october 2006 and removed from it an order that uah 552,756 be refunded to the applicant company.
the present case concerns criminal proceedings against the applicant, who was minister of defence in the period between july 2000 and may 2001, and three other defendants (k.gj., in february 2001, the company was bought by lj.p. in spring 2001 an armed conflict broke out in the respondent state. on 18 june 2001 the investigating judge heard evidence from the applicant, who denied the charges against him. he denied any personal acquaintance with the applicant and stated that lj.p. had signed the contracts on behalf of the company, although he had not authorised him to represent the company. throughout these proceedings he maintained his innocence. he maintained that the procurement process had been conducted through the ministry’s administration (стручни служби) and the undersecretary, that he had not been informed of the details of individual contracts and that the two contracts had been lawfully concluded. at a hearing held on 11 september 2003 the trial court, despite the objections of the defence, read out z.s. ’s pre-trial statement (see paragraph 10 above) since police enquiries had confirmed that he had left the country for the united states. ’s role in the case and the use of the funds transferred by the ministry to the company. they proposed that further documentary evidence be taken into evidence, including the full case file from the ministry regarding the contracts. as to the construction contract, the court found that there had been neither a legal framework governing the construction of military housing on the site of the base, nor a clear decision or plan for the particular location, which suggested that the defendants’ choice of location had been aimed at circumventing the public-procurement rules. it found that all relevant facts had been correctly established and that the trial court had complied with its instructions. it further found that the trial court had admitted into the file evidence proposed by both the prosecution and the defence that had been necessary for establishing the relevant facts.
the applicant was born in 1938 and lives in yalta, the autonomous republic of crimea. the report suggested that the building was in poor technical condition with its carrying walls unsafe. according to the applicant she was not aware of the agreement at the time. no copy of the plan has been made available to the court. the council and the executive committee refused to take the apartment into municipal ownership. on 16 june 2007, in a letter, the executive committee invited the applicant to appear, by 1 july 2007 at the latest, before the relevant body and obtain the title deeds (ордер) to the sosnova flat. on 4 october 2007 the yalta city court allowed the executive committee’s application. on an unspecified date the court of appeal of the autonomous republic of crimea (“the court of appeal”) remitted the case for fresh consideration to the first-instance court, noting that the council, as the owner of the sosnova flat, had not been involved in the proceedings. on 4 april 2008 the council joined the proceedings as a co-plaintiff and supported the executive committee’s claims. on 9 april 2008 the yalta city court found against the applicant. it annulled the applicant’s title to the pushkinska flat, ordered her eviction and rehousing in the sosnova flat and vested her with the title to the latter flat. it had more rooms and space than the pushkinska flat and was in an appropriate condition and in the same city. even assuming that the building was in poor structural condition, no proper decision existed suggesting that it would be subject to demolition. she argued that her property thus would remain extant. the offered flat had not been of the same value as the pushkinska flat and had not compensated her in full for her losses.
the applicants were born in 1976, 1972, 1976, 1970 and 1976 respectively. the applicants were secondary school teachers in a private chain of schools in moldova called orizont, which has been in operation since 1993. mr yasin ozdil had lived in moldova since 2015 with his wife and their two minor children. mr sedat hasan karacaoglu had lived in moldova since 1998 with his wife. all the applicants had valid residence permits for moldova. several criminal investigations were subsequently initiated by the appropriate prosecuting authorities in relation to suspected members of that organisation. on 10 april 2018 the charges against the principal of the chişinău orizont secondary school were dropped and the investigation was discontinued. on 6 september 2018 some of the members of the applicants’ families, their colleagues from the schools and human rights defenders spent the day at the airport in the hope of stopping the applicants’ deportation to turkey. on 7 september 2018, the head of the bma, o.p., stated in an interview that the authority had not been involved in the case of the seven orizont teachers and that the procedure for declaring them undesirable and removing them from moldova had not been carried out by the bma. several days after the applicants’ arrest and transfer to turkey their families also received from the bma decisions dated 5 september 2018, banning the applicants from entering moldovan territory for a period of five years and ordering their expulsion under supervision from moldova by the bma in accordance with section 58 of the status of aliens act (see paragraph 27 below). however, their actions were dismissed on the grounds that the powers of attorney had not been signed by the applicants themselves. the court decisions were challenged before the hierarchically superior court but without any success. on 15 october 2018 the european parliament made public a report on the implementation of the eu association agreement with moldova (2017/2281(ini)). in its report, the european parliament issued a statement in which it expressed itself in the following terms on the manner in which the applicants had been transferred from turkey:“29.
the applicant was born in 1963 and lives in elbasan, albania. was sent to serve his prison sentence in the lezhë detention facility. was diagnosed by the doctor of the lezhë detention facility as suffering from psoriasis, parapanesis inferior (partial paralysis of both legs) and elephantiasis. on 17 february 2011 his mother had told him that his brother had fallen ill and was being transferred to the hospital in tirana. he added that he wanted to know the cause of his brother’s death. had been transferred to that facility on 9 february 2011. on 9 march 2011 and again on 25 march 2011 the tirana prosecutor’s office requested sh.p. on 21 march 2011 the lezhë detention facility replied by letter stating that the applicant had been suffering from dyspnea, his lower limbs had both had oedemas, and that he had therefore been urgently transferred to tirana prison hospital. on 10 march 2011, the prosecutor in charge of the case ordered a series of investigative actions to be carried out by a judicial police officer:“(1)  to contact forensic experts who would carry out a forensic examination to find out the cause of death of the deceased; (2)  to seize the criminal and medical files of sh.p. and (5)  to carry out any other action which might be deemed necessary before 29 march 2011.” he had been treated like any other patient and the treatment prescribed had been administered in accordance with the rules. on 30 march 2011 a group of forensic experts carried out an examination of sh.p. with regard to the question whether sh.p. on 17 may 2011, the applicant lodged a complaint with the tirana district court against the decision of the tirana prosecutor’s office. on 23 january 2014 the supreme court rejected an appeal lodged by the applicant.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in piaski. she challenged that basis for the payment order and considered it illegal and unfounded. she further applied for exemption from the court fees. the court examined in detail the financial situation of the applicant. in particular it noted that in 2010 her company had generated a gross income of pln 213,000; however, the expenses exceeded this sum by approximately pln 50,000. the court agreed that her financial situation had been difficult and that she had not initiated the current proceedings. she reiterated that her business had generated losses and that she had been financially dependent on her family. on 22 august 2011 the applicant’s lawyer lodged a second request for exemption from the court fees. the court took into account the applicant’s difficult financial situation but noted that the court fee should not have been regarded as less important than the other financial obligations that the applicant had been able to honour, in the amount of pln 4,000 monthly. on 16 september 2011 the applicant was ordered to pay pln 1,000 within seven days. she submitted that her financial situation had not improved and that she had no income whatsoever. moreover her car broke down which generated further costs. she requested the court to exempt her from that fee. on 22 december 2011 the court partly granted her request. during that period the applicant unsuccessfully attempted to have the proceedings stayed.
the applicant was born in 1990 and lives in stalowa wola. according to the applicant, he was also punched in the face by one of the police officers during the arrest. one of the officers kicked him on his left knee. subsequently, the applicant was examined by a doctor, who found no reasons why he could not be detained. the doctor noted that the applicant had bruising on his left thigh and had twisted his left knee. on 28 may 2014 the stalowa wola district court gave its judgment. from the proceedings described in paragraphs 15-17 above. on 30 july 2013 the mielec district prosecutor instituted an investigation into the police officers’ alleged abuse of power on the night of 23-24 june 2013. as to the origins of these injuries, the expert confirmed that the bruising had been typical of the kind caused by truncheons, while the knee injury could have occurred when the applicant had resisted getting into the police car or going to another room. one of the doctors who had treated the applicant in stalowa wola district hospital on 26 june 2013. on 12 december 2013 the prosecutor questioned dr h.l., he had not had any visible injuries on his face or hands. he had been discharged on the following day. the prosecutor acknowledged that the police officers had used force against the applicant as he had been aggressive during the arrest, but he had not been beaten by the police officers whilst at stalowa wola district police station. although they all agreed that the applicant had been beaten by police officers in the car and at the police station, they had not been able to give a consistent version of events.
the applicant was born in 1973 and lives in vinkovci. the applicant requested that he be granted temporary custody. in the course of the divorce proceedings, the court heard a number of experts, including, on 30 june 2008, a psychologist from the sesvete social welfare centre, who stressed that the child needed contact with his father in order to maintain an emotional bond with him. and the child refused to undertake the court-ordered assessment. on 12 october 2012 the sesvete municipal court rendered a judgment awarding custody rights to the mother and contact rights to the applicant. the relevant part of that judgment reads as follows:“the child is eleven and a half years old and, notwithstanding the significance of the mother’s influence on his development (concerning the father’s allegations of manipulation), he leaves the impression of a boy standing firmly behind his beliefs and attitudes, who expresses his will openly and clearly ...the child wishes to live with his mother and to spend a maximum of two hours on saturdays with his father, without supervision, as his weekly schedule is full of school and music assignments. the supervising officer also said] that the boy had been resisting the meetings, so another date had been scheduled, but the next meeting again had not taken place. the applicant’s subsequent constitutional complaint was also dismissed. on the same day the vinkovci municipal court (općinski sud u vinkovcima) issued an enforcement order, setting an eight-day time-limit for d.m. to allow the applicant contacts with his son as established in the final court judgment of 12 october 2012, failing which she would be fined hrk 5,000. meanwhile, on 9 june 2011 the applicant brought criminal charges against d.m. the applicant was instructed to pursue his civil claim for damages in separate civil proceedings. on 13 october 2008 the sesvete social welfare centre concluded that the begović family needed professional assistance and referred them to the zagreb child protection clinic for assessment and possible treatment. the fact is that meetings between the son and the father are not taking place despite the final judicial decision. ...given that in the instant case one of the basic rights of the child provided for in the convention on the rights of the child and the legislation in force is jeopardised, it was necessary to offer the parents professional assistance in establishing an adequate relationship by [imposing] the [child protection] measure of supervision of contacts between the son and the father so as to enable both parents to participate in [the child’s] upbringing.
the applicant was born in 1966 and is detained in włocławek. on 1 october 2009 the applicant was arrested and detained on remand. on 2 march 2010 the applicant was indicted before the łódź regional court. the bill of indictment was directed against the applicant and twenty‑two co-accused charged with over 900 offences in total. in consequence, the proceedings against the applicant were to be transferred to another division of the łódź regional court. on 28 december 2010 the trial court extended the applicant’s detention on remand. on 4 february 2011 the proceedings were stayed pending the outcome of another trial, but that decision was quashed upon appeal on 16 march 2011. the case was transferred to the relevant division of the court in march 2011, and thereafter the presiding judge scheduled the beginning of the trial for 14 september 2011 and undertook other preparative actions (such as tracing the addresses of some twelve witnesses). during the proceedings the applicant lodged multiple procedural requests which were examined by the trial court. the łódź regional court held about twenty-four hearings in total and on 13 may 2013 convicted the applicant and sentenced him to nine years’ imprisonment. the applicant appealed against the judgment. a hearing of the appellate court scheduled for 15 april 2014 was cancelled due to the absence of the applicant’s lawyer. the applicant lodged two complaints under the law of 17 june 2004 on complaints of breaches of the right to have a case examined in an investigation conducted or supervised by a prosecutor, and in judicial proceedings, without undue delay (ustawa o skardze na naruszenie prawa strony do rozpoznania sprawy w postępowaniu przygotowawczym prowadzonym lub nadzorowanym przez prokuratora i postępowaniu sądowym bez nieuzasadnionej zwłoki - “the 2004 act”). on 7 september 2011 the łódź court of appeal dismissed the first complaint. the court examined the course of the proceedings and ruled that there had been no delays on the part of the courts.
the applicant company, virprod-lux s.r.l., on 13 april 2000 the tax authority seized a building from a state‑owned company, company v., on account of taxes which were due. on 29 january 2001 the department of privatisation and administration of state property sold the building in question to company b. for mdl 360,500 (approximately 29,678 euros (eur), following a public auction. on 25 april 2003 the applicant company bought the building from company b. for mdl 628,000 (approximately eur 22,053). the applicant company opposed the prosecutor general’s action and argued, among other things, that it was time-barred. on 21 august 2007 the economic court of appeal dismissed the prosecutor general’s action as time-barred. the court held, inter alia, that in accordance with the statute of limitations, the prosecutor general’s action could not be initiated more than three years after the events in dispute had taken place. on 11 october 2007 the supreme court of justice upheld an appeal by the prosecutor general, reversed the judgment of the economic court of appeal, and upheld the action in its entirety. the supreme court considered that the prosecutor general’s action concerned a declaration of the absolute nullity of the contracts in question and that therefore, in accordance with article 217 of the civil code, enacted on 12 june 2003, it could not be limited in time. following this judgment, the transactions of 29 january 2001 and 25 april 2003 were annulled and each party involved was ordered to return to the other parties whatever they received by virtue of those transactions. in the meantime, the applicant company did not leave the disputed building because it had its production line there and it needed time and resources to find another suitable building and to move its production line. since company v. did not need the disputed building, the applicant company proposed to it and the latter accepted to conclude a friendly settlement agreement in accordance with which company v. agreed that the applicant company would retain ownership of the building in exchange for mdl 325,092 (approximately eur 19,328). on 20 march 2008, within the framework of the review proceedings, the supreme court of justice upheld the parties’ request to settle the case. it confirmed the friendly settlement agreement between the applicant company and company v., and on that basis it quashed its previous judgment and rejected the prosecutor general’s action. it is unclear from the materials of the case and the parties’ submissions whether after the adoption of the judgment of 11 october 2007 by the supreme court of justice, company b. returned to the applicant company the amount received as a result of the transaction of 25 april 2003.
the applicants, who were born in 1980 and 1977, respectively, live in slobozia and parcani, in the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”). in view of the fact that, in the applicants’ submission, it was impossible for them to apply to the court directly, the application was lodged by their mothers. on 2 march 2005 the applicants were arrested by the “mrt” authorities and placed in detention on remand on suspicion of murder. on 1 june 2009 they were convicted by an “mrt” court and sentenced to terms of fourteen years and a half, and fourteen years’ imprisonment, respectively. on 4 august 2009 the supreme court of the “mrt” upheld the above judgment, but reduced the sentence of the first applicant to fourteen years’ imprisonment. it does not appear from the material in the case file and from the parties’ submissions that the applicants informed the authorities of the republic of moldova about the proceedings against them and the conviction and detention in the “mrt”. in december 2014 the applicants challenged their conviction by way of an extraordinary appeal before the supreme court of the republic of moldova which, on 14 february 2015, upheld their appeal and quashed the judgments of the “mrt” courts on the ground that they had been issued by unconstitutional tribunals. the applicants were released from detention on 20 july and 20 august 2015, respectively, for reasons which were not related to the supreme court of moldova’s decision of 14 february 2015.
according to the applicants, in the period from 20 may to 6 july 2010 they participated in obstructive protest activities against a road-construction project, in particular tree-felling, in gorky park (парк ім. on 10 september 2008 the city council allocated land for the road construction to the municipal construction department. on 25 may 2010 the main contractor asked the chief of the city police to send police units to the site at 7 a.m. on 26 may 2010 to prevent third parties from infiltrating the construction site. on 29 may it asked the chief of police of the then dzerzhinsky (presently shevchenkivsky) district, where gorky park is located (hereinafter “the district”), to ensure public order on the construction site, referring to an incident the previous day in which, according to the company, unidentified people had interfered with the construction work, shouted profanities at the workers and tried to provoke a fight. at what appears to be a public meeting of city authorities, the head of the municipal construction department is shown explaining the need for the new road in the city’s traffic scheme. video and photographic material for 31 may shows another tumultuous scene. a woman (apparently the ninth applicant) is seen lying on the ground surrounded by the crowd. in the course of that action, the third applicant was closely approached by two loggers, subsequently identified as a. and k., employees of one of the subcontractors. then the people with badges, having lined up elbow‑to‑elbow, start pushing, apparently attempting to push the protesters away from the crossing towards the periphery of the marked-off area. the police officers then start prising individuals from the group and lead them away from the marked-off area. eventually, the area previously occupied by the protesters is cleared and an excavator moves through it. he had seen many people in the place where trees were being felled and had gone closer. concerning the tenth applicant, the court likewise pointed to inconsistencies between various police reports in the case file and the lack of evidence that the officers had duly instructed him to leave. on 2 july 2010 the regional environmental protection department issued a positive environmental impact assessment (висновок державної екологічної експертизи) of the road construction project. they have not informed the court of any further developments.
the applicant was born in 1961 and lives in corjova. he had his car registered with the authorities of the republic of moldova and had moldovan registration plates installed on it. on 16 december 2006 a customs officer of the self-proclaimed “moldovan republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) stopped the applicant at a check‑point and seized his car on the ground that upon entry on the territory of transdniestria he had failed to stop at the border. he was later obliged to pay a fine of 58 united states dollars in order to recover the car. on 19 december 2006 the applicant’s driving licence was seized on the ground that he had failed to comply with traffic rules. his car was also seized, on the ground of his failure to comply with customs regulations, but the seizure report was destroyed and he was able to recover his car five hours later after the intervention of a group of russian peacekeepers. his driving licence was not returned and he was issued a temporary driving licence. according to the applicant, he complained to the authorities of moldova, but they informed him that there was nothing they could help him with. the moldovan government disputed the fact that the applicant had informed them about the circumstances of the present case. reports by inter-governmental and non-governmental organisations, the relevant domestic law and practice of the republic of moldova, and other pertinent documents were summarised in mozer v. the republic of moldova and russia ([gc], no.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in vantaa, finland. had a temporary residence permit (expired in summer 2015). she had not, however, fully recovered mobility in one hand and one leg. following her return to finland in august 2013, i.k. should have joint custody of v. and that the latter should reside with the applicant. the judgment was enforceable pending a decision in appeal proceedings. on 20 november 2015 the helsinki court of appeal dismissed i.k. lodged a further appeal with the supreme court of finland. on 20 february 2015 the applicant applied to the finnish ministry of justice to have the child returned to finland under the hague convention. the finnish ministry of justice sent an enquiry to the ministry of science and education of the russian federation, which confirmed that the child was residing with i.k. it also found that there were no grounds for granting an exception to the child’s immediate return under article 13 (b) of the hague convention: the argument concerning the risk of v. suffering psychological harm in the event of her return to finland and the allegation that the applicant was suffering from a mental disorder were found unsubstantiated; i.k. lastly, the city court noted that the report of the ombudsman for children in st petersburg stated that both parents had parental authority in respect of v., that the applicant’s rights were not diminished on the territory of the russian federation, and that the removal of the child from her mother in russia to her father in finland for the purposes of permanent residence in finland could, on account of her numerous medical conditions, cause her physical harm. on 5 october 2016 enforcement proceedings were instituted against the applicant. however ... it has to be admitted that the removal of the child can sometimes be justified by objective reasons which have to do either with its person, or with the environment with which it is most closely connected. ... from the convention’s standpoint, the removal of a child by one of the joint holders without the consent of the other, is equally wrongful, and this wrongfulness derives in this particular case, not from some action in breach of a particular law, but from the fact that such action has disregarded the rights of the other parent which are also protected by law, and has interfered with their normal exercise.
the applicant was born in 1965 and lives in ștefan-vodă. b. admitted her guilt and declared that she had had an arrangement with the applicant to transfer s. to turkey for the purpose of sexual exploitation. she said the applicant had promised her money for this and that she had received an advance payment. s. declared that she had met only b., who had promised to find her employment in russia; that b. had arranged accommodation for her in the apartment she had been renting in slobozia; that b. had taken her passport and that another roommate, c.t., it had been upon learning this that she had gone to the police. the court noted that c. had changed her depositions given during criminal investigation, in which she had stated that b. had revealed her criminal intentions, and had chosen to rely on those initial depositions. the district court convicted both b. and the applicant on all counts, sentencing b. to seven years’ imprisonment, but absolving her from the execution of the sentence because she was infected with hiv, and sentencing the applicant to eight years’ imprisonment. the prosecutor and the applicant appealed against this judgment. on 6 december 2007 after having heard the prosecutor, the applicant and the victim, the bender court of appeal concluded that the prosecution had failed to provide reliable evidence in support of the contention that the applicant had indeed acted together with b. and that the first-instance court had based its findings essentially on b.’s statements. the prosecutor appealed against this judgment. during the proceedings the applicant was represented by a pro bono lawyer and no witnesses gave evidence. according to the applicant, his chosen representative never received a summons for this hearing. the court re‑examined and dismissed as ill-founded the applicant’s appeal against the judgment of ștefan-vodă district court of 8 june 2007. the applicant appealed against the latter, arguing, inter alia, that he had not been legally summonsed and that in his absence the court had adopted a decision relying on assumptions rather than on factual evidence. s., a victim, also submitted an extraordinary appeal, arguing that the proceedings had been unfair because she had also not been summoned and that because the applicant had been convicted unfairly because he was not guilty.
the applicant was born in 1975 and lives in chişinău. the applicant had a dispute with h. over ownership of a house. he brought a claim against h. seeking acknowledgement of his property rights, as his father’s heir, and h.’s eviction from the house. h. lodged a counterclaim, seeking acknowledgement of her property rights to the house as she had built it. on 20 december 2007 the buiucani district court dismissed h.’s counterclaim and allowed the applicant’s claim in full. on 20 may 2008 the chișinău court of appeal upheld the earlier judgment and dismissed h.’s appeal. h. did not attend the appellate hearing, even though the summons had been repeatedly sent to the address she had provided in her appeal. a registered letter was returned with a note stating that h. did not live at the address indicated by her. the judgment became final after the expiry of the two-month time-limit for lodging an appeal on points of law. on 11 may 2009 h. lodged an appeal on points of law with the supreme court of justice, stating that she had only learned of the judgment of 20 may 2008 on 23 april 2009. in her application, she indicated the same address as in the proceedings before the court of appeal. the applicant asked the supreme court of justice to dismiss the appeal as being lodged outside the legal time-limit. he submitted that since it had been h. who had lodged the appeal with the chişinău court of appeal, it had been her duty to enquire about the progress of the proceedings and not to wait for a year before doing so. on 16 october 2009 the supreme court of justice allowed h.’s appeal on points of law, quashed the previous judgments and delivered a new judgment on the merits of the case dividing the disputed house into equal shares between the applicant and h. the court argued that the appeal had not been lodged outside the time-limit because h. had not attended the hearing before the court of appeal and there was nothing in the file to suggest that that court had informed her of the availability of the full judgment. the court concluded that without any evidence of the date when h. had learned of the judgment, her appeal was considered to have been submitted on time.
the first applicant was born in 1984 and the second applicant in 2009. on 16 june 2014 a went to the y police station to report that c had been sexually abusing their child, b, at the time aged four and a half. the relevant parts of that report read as follows:“assessment and opinion of the social workerthe girl came to the [interview with] the social worker accompanied by her parents ... during the interview with the parents, the girl entered the [interview] room several times. she accepts to stay alone, but on several occasions she exits the room and asks that her mother join her. she provides no further details ...in conclusion ... [the girl] is growing up in a family with separating parents, she witnesses their broken down relationship, and is exposed to negative attributes of the other parent by the mother, which creates a pressure on the girl ... during the conversation she says that the reason for her coming was inadequate behaviour by the father, but she has difficulties providing details. the decision describes in detail all the evidence gathered. the relevant part of its conclusion reads:“on the basis of the allegations contained in the criminal complaint, the documentation obtained during the enquiry and [that] submitted by the complainant ... it has been established that there were no signs of either old or fresh injuries on child b’s body and genitals ... that child b shows a premature interest in sexuality and erotic behaviour inappropriate for her age, and that both parents should receive appropriate [psychotherapy]. polyclinic’s report ... shows that the child was exposed to inappropriate content and/or conduct by an adult with sexual connotations, the fact is that none of the four institutions which had previously treated the child, including the a.b.r. it provides that all actions by the police, save for urgent measures, are to be carried out by officers specially trained in sexual violence cases and that the police must inform the victim of the possibility of obtaining expert help for the protection of his or her physical and psychological well-being. all procedures conducted by state bodies are to be carried out by experts in the relevant fields. a social welfare centre should appoint a special guardian for the child if its experts assess that his or her interests are in conflict with those of the parent. each party shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that all interviews with the victim or, where appropriate, those with a child witness, may be videotaped and that these videotaped interviews may be accepted as evidence during the court proceedings, according to the rules provided by its internal law. it was signed by croatia on 22 january 2013, ratified on 12 june 2018 and came into force on 1 october 2018. the relevant part reads:chapter iv – protection and supportarticle 18 – general obligations“1. this treatment should be given to them, in whichever way they have come into contact with judicial or non-judicial proceedings or other interventions, and regardless of their legal status and capacity in any procedure or case.
by a court decision the applicant was under an obligation to provide financial support in the amount of a quarter of his income for his child, who was living separately. the court of appeal noted that the bailiffs had relied on the official data obtained from the authorities and had correctly determined the amount of debt by referring to the available information on the applicant’s income. both the applicant and her husband worked at a rubber-production company. on 27 october 2009 the kyiv regional court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal as unfounded, holding that she had failed to prove that the flat was the marital property of the former spouses and that she had made any contribution to the acquisition of the flat. the applicant then raised those arguments before the supreme court. the applicant’s husband worked at company o. from 1981 until his death on 3 july 2006. on 20 december 1995 company o., the applicant’s husband and k., a construction company, concluded an agreement under which the applicant’s husband was to be provided with a three-room flat, no. company o. financed the construction work. 42 in the building which was under construction. in 2002 company k. made further arrangements and agreements aimed at raising funds for the completion of the building. furthermore, the applicant herself had never been a party to the agreements with the defendants. on 19 january 2011 the supreme court dismissed as unfounded an appeal on points of law. the applicant’s grandmother worked in an agricultural collective farm and was entitled to a share in the plots of land allocated to that farm. on 4 november 2010 the kyiv court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal, endorsing the first-instance court’s reasoning that by not providing the official list of citizens who had received the shares of land, the applicant had failed to prove that his grandmother had not received any such share. on 4 january 2011 the higher specialised court for civil and criminal matters dismissed the appeal on points of law, noting that the applicant had failed to present the above-mentioned list of citizens in support of his claim.
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in überherrn. in april 2007 the prison authorities discovered that a mobile phone had been smuggled into the prison in december 2006. he was accused of having accepted a bribe in the amount of 200 euros (eur), of having smuggled a mobile phone into the prison and of having provided it to an inmate. charges were also brought against seven other accused. the refusal to appoint counsel for one co-accused was appealed against before the regional court, which decided on that matter in april 2009. the first hearing of the main proceedings took place on 3 may 2010 and after fourteen hearings the district court convicted the applicant for having taken a bribe and sentenced him to a term of imprisonment of one year and four months, suspended on probation. on 23 september 2010 the written judgment was filed by the court. the applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment. in september 2011 the applicant changed his defence counsel; new counsel was provided with access to the case file. the appeal proceedings commenced on 25 october 2011 and ended after seven hearings on 18 november 2011. the regional court convicted the applicant for having taken a bribe and sentenced him to eight months’ imprisonment. the court had also taken into account that the applicant had been suspended from service as soon as he had been convicted by the court of first instance and as a consequence had been receiving only a reduced salary since then. the applicant lodged an appeal on points of law against the judgment of the regional court on 2 april 2015 and submitted his writ of appeal on points of law on 8 april 2015. on 29 april 2016 the court of appeal dismissed the applicant’s appeal on points of law as being manifestly ill-founded. by a decision of 12 july 2016 the administrative court dismissed his application, holding, inter alia, that it was contrary to the status of civil servants act (see paragraph 34 below).
the applicant was born in 1977 and lives in the poltava region. that she would provide legal assistance to the applicant. the search report, drawn up on 28 may 2008 and attested by witnesses k. and b., stated that nothing had been seized from the applicant during his search. doctors noted in a medical certificate that he had informed them that at about 9 p.m. on 27 may 2008 he had been beaten by police officers. on 29 may 2008 the applicant lodged a complaint with the town prosecutor regarding his alleged ill-treatment at the volnovakha police station on the evening of 27 may and unlawful detention on 27 and 28 may 2008. he also stated that his detention in that police station had not been recorded and that the duty officer had only made an entry in the police visitors’ book about his alleged visit to that police station at 9.10 a.m. on 28 may 2008 after t.’s arrival. on the same day the applicant was questioned. they had been caused by blunt objects or by impact with them. a number of others (haematomas on the head, neck, face, left hip and forearm, left wrist and knee, abrasions on the right forearm, left leg, and a scratch on the right leg) could have been sustained during the period indicated by the applicant. on 6 may 2010 p. supplemented his expert report of 2 july 2008 by adding that injuries which could have been sustained during the period indicated by the applicant had also included haematomas on his back. a haematoma on the applicant’s left knee had been sustained upon impact of that area with a blunt object; it could have resulted from him falling over. the applicant’s father complained to the higher prosecutors, pointing to a contradiction between the prosecutor’s decisions in which it had been established that the police officers had not seen any injuries on the applicant when he had been taken to the police station on 28 may 2008, and the expert report of 2 july 2008, which stated that a number of injuries could have been sustained by the applicant on 27 may 2008. he had answered in the affirmative, adding that he would have been fired if he had not participated in the ill-treatment. on 25 july 2011 the higher prosecutor set aside the decision of 6 july 2011. the parties did not inform the court of the subsequent events.
the applicant was born in 1955 and lives in makhachkala, republic of dagestan. in 1991 and 1992 they had two daughters, kr. ( born on 1 july 1991) and k. (born on 13 july 1992). the applicant did not register his paternity. both girls continued living with the applicant. in july 2007 k. stopped attending school, frequently ran away from home and exhibited delinquent behaviour. in december 2007, following an application by t.k., k. was placed in a temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders. in taking this decision the district court relied on the following circumstances: k.’s not attending school, running away from home, vagabonding and leading an anti-social and immoral lifestyle, as well as unsuccessful attempts to discipline k. and her being detained in the temporary detention centre for juvenile offenders. on an unspecified date shortly afterwards k. was placed in a closed educational institution for minors in the town of pokrov, vladimir region, some 2,500 km from her home town of makhachkala. according to the applicant, his daughter’s correspondence with him was subjected to censorship by the facility’s administration. in the meantime, the applicant brought proceedings seeking the establishment of his paternity vis-à-vis kr. on 9 april 2008 the district court established the applicant’s paternity in respect of kr. the present application was already pending before the european court of human rights when, on 7 august 2008, the presidium of the supreme court of the republic of dagestan, by way of a supervisory review, quashed the decision of 18 february 2008 as unlawful and unjustified, and discontinued the proceedings. on 30 september 2008 k. was released from the closed educational institution for minors and returned home.
the applicants were born in 2001 and 1967 respectively and live in bucharest. in january 2011 the first applicant underwent significant surgical interventions which left him wheelchair-bound. 148 where, according to the applicants’ submissions, the conditions and the support were acceptable. the school also failed to provide for his basic needs such as personal and intimate care, feeding and moving around. on several occasions the second applicant brought her son into school without a wheelchair by carrying him on her back (on 3-5 february and on 3 and 18 march 2016) and left him without any means of moving around the school premises. was assigned as a support teacher for the first applicant. continued to assist the first applicant in the school year 2016/17, and on 15 september 2016 drafted a new intervention plan which was accepted by most of the teachers. they recommended that the child alternate periodically between sitting and standing up. it appears from the information provided by the government that the second applicant failed to provide the school with the medical information concerning the first applicant’s needs in terms of physical recuperation. the first applicant could not receive physiotherapy in school as his mother refused to allow him to participate in any session which did not take place in the school gymnasium. 8249/3/2011), the bucharest county court (hereinafter “the county court”) partly allowed an action brought by the second applicant against various authorities concerning the manner in which they had dealt with her son’s situation. (b)  the court ordered the cmbrae and the ismb to adapt the school curriculum and the educational plans to the first applicant’s needs, finding as follows:“while in the special education [curriculum] the educational plans and school curriculum are tailored to the type and degree of disability, thus allowing time for therapy ..., in mainstream schools this kind of adaptation does not exist. on 28 november 2016 the bailiff ordered the authorities to comply with the court order and to pay the applicants the costs of the enforcement proceedings. on 25 april 2017 the district court dismissed an objection to enforcement in which the ismb and the cmbrae also claimed that they had already complied with the court order. according to the government, during the second applicant’s stay in the police station, the first applicant remained in school, in the presence of the school nurse and a teacher on duty.
he currently lives in ilidža, sarajevo canton. in 1983 the applicant went to the then socialist federal republic of yugoslavia to pursue his studies. on 6 october 2008 the applicant was placed in an immigration centre on security grounds, pursuant to section 99(2)(b) of the 2008 aliens act, because it had been established that he posed a threat to national security. on 2 march 2011 and 29 november 2011, following appeals by the applicant, the ministry of security and the state court of bosnia and herzegovina (“the state court”), respectively, upheld that decision. the applicant repeatedly challenged his detention. the appeals chamber, referring to the court’s case-law, held that the applicant should have been informed of the reasons for his continued detention and of the grounds on which he was deemed to be a security risk. on 23 may 2014 the court heard the applicant and disclosed to him the open evidence, the relevant part of which reads as follows:“imad al husin arrived [in bosnia and herzegovina] immediately after the outbreak of war ... [at the time he] was a member of the el mujahedin unit, in which he was one of the main persons in charge of logistical support. rather, he had used abstract and general statements in an effort to downplay the importance of the information provided therein. his brother was a retired colonel in the syrian security forces. in the meantime, on 27 may 2014 the aliens service further extended the applicant’s detention. on 2 june 2014, following an appeal by the applicant, the ministry of security upheld that decision. furthermore, their examination of the possibility to apply less strict preventive measures had involved general and abstract arguments, without any further explanation being given. at a hearing of 9 september 2014 the applicant submitted that he had contacted the authorities of the republic of turkey concerning the possibility of his moving there, but that his request had been refused on the basis of information provided by the national security agency. on 27 november 2013 the ministry of foreign affairs asked kuwait, saudi arabia, bahrain, qatar and the united arab emirates to provide responses to the requests that they agree to accept the applicant. such access was regularly granted and the relevant information provided by the aliens service and the ministry of foreign affairs.
the applicant was born in 1943 and lives in ploieşti. (a)   the conduct of the investigation 14. on 2 august 2005 the district court prosecutor’s office declined jurisdiction in favour of the prosecutor’s office attached to the ploieşti court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal prosecutor’s office”) on account of the applicant’s status as a judge. on 5 december 2005 the court of appeal prosecutor’s office discontinued the criminal proceedings brought against d.i. also, the applicant was responsible for causing the accident because he had been driving under the influence of alcohol and had failed to adapt his speed to the traffic conditions. the applicant appealed against the decisions of 5 december 2005 and 3 january 2006 before the ploieşti court of appeal (hereinafter “the court of appeal”). on 3 april 2007 the forensic service produced a psychiatric forensic expert report concerning the applicant. and referred the case back to the police department for the investigative measures ordered by the court. it dismissed the applicant’s request for a re-enactment of the circumstances of the accident on the grounds that such a re-enactment could be made only on a theoretical level, by producing a technical expert report which would determine the circumstances in which the traffic accident had taken place. following a challenge by the applicant against the police department’s decision of 30 march 2009, the district court prosecutor’s office informed the applicant on 30 april 2009 that the criminal investigation file had been sent to the laboratory for criminological reports and that in the absence of the file his challenge could not be examined within the legal time-limit. on 21 april 2009 the laboratory for criminological reports informed the police department that, in the light of their extreme workload and the small number of experts available, the technical criminological report in respect of the applicant’s case could not be produced before 2011. on the grounds that not all the elements of an offence had been established. furthermore, according to the forensic expert report of 27 june 2005, the applicant’s injuries had been caused mainly by his car’s head-on impact with the lorry. he had been driving his car too fast at night. the injured party could lodge such a claim either during the criminal proceedings or before the trial court, up until the day the indictment was read out in court (article 15).
the applicants, two brothers, were born in 1970 and 1975 and are currently serving prison sentences in sol-iletsk, orenburg region. on an unspecified date the second applicant lodged an appeal against the judgment of 17 january 2003. according to the second applicant, on that date he also learnt that his appeal of 23 september 2002 had not been included in the case file and that it would not be considered. on 28 august 2007 the second applicant requested that the time-limit for lodging an appeal against the decision of 13 september 2002 be restored due to the disappearance of the hard copy of his original complaint. according to the second applicant, on 26 march 2009 he sent an application to the court via the administration of the correctional colony. the application was not received by the court. on 11 december 2009 the registry of the court received the initial letter sent by the second applicant through the administration of the correctional colony on 19 november 2009. it had been opened by the administration of the correctional colony for the purpose of censoring. one day later the second applicant received the crossword puzzles. on 8 december 2011 the second applicant’s complaints were forwarded to the government for further observations. on 15 may 2006 the deputy head of the administration decided to terminate an inquiry into a complaint of ill-treatment lodged by the second applicant. and mr s., confirmed the above-mentioned facts. according to forensic medical examinations conducted on the same day, the [second applicant] had bruises measuring 8 by 2.7 cm and 10 by 2.7 cm on his hips. the investigator’s decision further reads as follows:“the authorities conducting the preliminary inquiry are sceptical about [the second applicant’s] allegations, since he tries to conceal his discontent with the regime of the correctional colony and complains about the measures taken by the administration of the colony as being unlawful. according to the second applicant, on 10 august 2009 and in september 2009 he was blindfolded, suspended by his arms and subjected to electric shocks by the guards of the correctional colony.
the first, second and third applicants were born in 1950, 2001 and 2007 respectively, and live in călărași. in line with the first applicant’s express wishes, the other applicants remained in her care even after she retired. she also claimed the reimbursement of expenses relating to her regular medical examinations and laboratory tests and argued that for the previous three years the second applicant had not been given the housing, placement and food allowances to which he had been entitled. also, a child was entitled to a food allowance, which had to be paid to the person feeding the child. by a final judgment of 12 may 2009 the bucharest court of appeal (“the court of appeal”) dismissed the first applicant’s appeal on points of fact and law. on 24 november 2009 the county court allowed the first applicant’s claims in part. there is no evidence in the file that the first applicant appealed on points of fact and law against the judgment of 24 november 2009. the călăraşi dgaspc appealed against the judgment on points of fact and law. it held that in accordance with the relevant provisions of the code (see paragraph 11 above) and of the relevant collective agreement concerning her employer, all the employees of that office for whom overtime could be calculated were entitled to such payments. on 3 november 2011 the county court allowed the first applicant’s claims. also, according to the available evidence, the applicant had taken her annual leave in may and june and had been paid for it. it could not be argued that she had not taken her annual leave in may 2011 because she had spent it in the company of her foster child. by a final judgment of 15 december 2011 the court of appeal allowed the călăraşi dgaspc’s appeal in part. the first applicant submitted to the court three judgments delivered by three different courts of appeal. on 4 january and 9 february 2017 the călăraşi dgaspc informed the government that the amount corresponding to the first applicant’s unspent annual leave for the period 2008-2010 had been paid to her in full in five instalments between january 2013 and june 2016.
the applicant company has its registered office in istanbul. on 2 december 1997 and 22 october 1998 the applicant company and blasco signed agreements under which blasco acknowledged owing certain debts to the applicant company related to services provided to blasco’s vessels amounting to 3,466,754.93 united states dollars (usd). on 25 december 1998 bankruptcy proceedings were initiated in respect of blasco. it appears that they were then reinitiated and discontinued at some point in 2001. in order to show the latter, the applicant company would need to provide the original documents showing the basis on which the debts had arisen. the case was remitted to the commercial court. on 24 february 2006 the commercial court rejected the applicant company’s claims as insufficiently substantiated. on 12 august 2008 the court of appeal upheld the commercial court’s ruling of 24 february 2006 concerning the applicant company’s claims. he complained that in the course of the bankruptcy proceedings the ministry of transport and blasco’s management had failed to provide sufficient information about the debtor’s assets and obligations and that blasco had been transferring assets to third parties outside of the bankruptcy proceedings. in that letter the court president pointed out that the president’s earlier instruction to the cabinet of ministers concerning the need to take steps to improve the blasco situation had not been complied with and that the court had been unable to obtain information from the authorities about the debtor’s assets for more than seven years. in addition, the applicant company stated that the commercial court was operating in a building in odessa that had previously belonged to blasco. on 8 october 2013 the hcc dismissed the appeal and upheld the decision of 30 may 2013. on 31 december 2013 the applicant company lodged an application for a review of the hcc ruling by the supreme court (see the relevant provisions of domestic law in paragraph 47 below). there were, therefore, no grounds to examine the petition by the supreme court (see paragraph 47 below for the relevant provisions of the domestic law). according to the applicant company, it only became aware of the ruling of 11 february 2014 on 15 july 2014.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in tbilisi. on 30 may 2011 a press release was posted on the website of the ministry of the interior (“the moi”), which said that an armed group of twenty-four people had been detained in kintsvisi on 26 may 2011. according to the official record of the detention and search of the applicant, which he duly signed, the applicant was placed under arrest at 6.12 a.m. on 27 may 2011 at tbilisi police headquarters on suspicion of committing an offence under article 315 § 1 of the criminal code (conspiracy or insurrection intended to change the constitutional order of georgia by violent means). the applicant maintained that the actual time of his arrest was different from the time of the arrest indicated in the official record. by a decision of 12 march 2012 the supreme court of georgia rejected an appeal by the applicant on points of law as inadmissible. on admission he underwent a visual examination which confirmed bruises and haemorrhages on his body and face (see paragraphs 9-10 above). in support of his allegations he submitted a photo, allegedly taken during his initial questioning, showing injuries on his face. he claimed that he had been punched in the face by one of the officers of the special forces in kintsvisi. one of them, according to the applicant, had been wearing a mask. on 18 december 2012 the applicant was questioned again. in the meantime, between january and april 2013 the investigator in charge questioned various officials from the moi, among them police officers of the kareli police station. the investigator also interviewed the staff of the local emergency service. on 13 june 2016 the investigator in charge obtained a medical record from tbilisi no. the latter while confirming having seen the applicant and his entourage assaulted when arrested, also provided information about the appearance of those involved in the arrest operation. according to the case-file the proceedings are still pending.
the applicants purchased licences for gambling operations for the periods indicated in the appendix. they (except the third applicant; see paragraphs 43-47 below) operated gambling businesses. on 8 may 2009 the ministry of finance issued an order by which it suspended all gambling licences until 7 june 2009 with immediate effect. on 11 june 2009 parliament overrode the veto. it relied on various provisions of domestic law. there was thus no basis for the claim for damages. the law in question had not been declared unconstitutional by the constitutional court. she relied on the provisions of domestic law incorporating the convention and the court’s case-law and the primacy of the former (see paragraphs 74 and 76 below) and argued that the prohibition law, by revoking her licence, had terminated her property rights within the meaning of the legislative takings clause. it cited domestic provisions concerning the obligations of the public authorities to compensate for damage caused by their unlawful conduct (see, in particular, paragraph 71 below), and stated that parliament’s constitutional role was to enact laws, that it had acted within those powers in adopting the prohibition law and that that law did not provide for the payment of any compensation to former licence holders. in the second set of proceedings (application form submitted on 4 november 2013), the applicant sought to have the acts of the cabinet of ministers and of the ministry of finance regarding the one-month suspension of her licence declared unlawful and quashed (see paragraph 11 above). similar claims lodged by three other companies were joined to the proceedings. on 10 november 2008 the applicant company paid the full price for a five-year licence to the state treasury and on 14 november 2008 it obtained its licence, valid from 28 october 2008 to 27 october 2013. it also pointed out that the transitional provisions of the prohibition law required the cabinet of ministers to enact new regulations as required for the implementation of the prohibition law (see paragraph 67 below). article 1173 of the code requires the public authorities to compensate for damage caused by unlawful decisions, actions or inaction of such authorities. paragraph 6 provided that in the event of a conflict between a binding international treaty and a law enacted by parliament, the court had to apply the treaty.
the applicants were born in 1976 and 1982 and live in khust and kharkiv respectively. the first applicant lodged a claim against a social security authority, seeking an increase in the amount of child allowance she was receiving. a first-instance court allowed her claim in part. on 6 november 2012 the higher administrative court (“the hac”), having examined the appeal, quashed the lower courts’ judgments and dismissed the applicant’s claim. the second applicant moved from the territory of the republic of moldova controlled by the so‑called “moldavian republic of transdniestria” (“mrt”) (see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no. 48787/99, echr 2004‑vii) to ukraine to take up permanent residence. under domestic law, repatriating ukrainians were entitled to the tax-free and duty-free import of their foreign-registered vehicles. she challenged this refusal before the administrative courts. a first-instance court allowed her claim and ordered the customs office to clear her car through customs. that judgment was upheld on appeal but the customs office lodged a further appeal on points of law. they alleged that they had only learned of the appeal proceedings when they had been served with the hac’s final decisions quashing the lower courts’ decisions in their favour. as worded at the relevant time, articles 214 and 215 of the 2005 code of administrative justice provided that a hac judge-rapporteur would decide, having considered an appeal, whether to initiate proceedings to review the lower courts’ decisions on points of law. if the judge decided to initiate such proceedings, he or she was required to inform the parties of that decision and serve a copy of the appeal on the opposing party with a time-limit for responding. the relevant provisions of the code concerning the procedure for serving court documents are summarised in lazarenko and others v. ukraine (nos. 70329/12 and 5 others, § 15, 27 june 2017).
the applicant company, an editorial and publishing house registered in moscow, edits and publishes a national newspaper with a circulation of 500,000, the novaya gazeta (“the newspaper”). most of the crew died within minutes of the explosions. 29/00/0016-00 (“the investigation”), the chief military prosecutor’s office launched an official investigation into the accident under article 263 § 3 of the russian criminal code (a provision on “a breach of safety procedures while using a means of transportation which causes the death of two or more persons by negligence”). the prosecutors found that there had been minor technical defects in the kursk and certain omissions in the organisation and conduct of the naval exercise and the rescue operation. on 4 january 2003 his complaint was dismissed. on 29 june 2004 the appeal tribunal of the military court of the moscow garrison upheld the judgment on appeal. it further alleged that there were reasons to believe that the investigators had made the conclusion about the absence of a causal link between the naval officers’ omissions and the death of the kursk crew members under pressure. presided over the panel of medical experts (which means that he was responsible for collating all the medical expert opinions in the case file). ... the expert examination performed by v.k. ... [ the case file does not contain any proof of a causal link between the explosion and the fire in the ninth compartment. ... the fire in the ninth compartment ... started a considerable time after the explosion and the sinking of the kursk. performed an expert examination with the intention of receiving a predetermined result, that is, he was biased and had a personal interest in the proceedings. and tarnish his honour, dignity and business reputation. in the statement of appeal, the respondent [company] claims that the journalist expressed her opinion, which was based on the criminal case material, and that civil law does not hold a journalist liable for the expression of a subjective opinion. it is not clear whether the second applicant paid the amount which the district court ordered her to pay to v.k.
the applicant was born in 1937 and lives in orhei. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. on 16 january 1997 the orhei mayor’s office attested the property right of a number of private individuals over plots of land in the town. after his death the applicant took possession of the land and used continuously for her own needs. c. continued to be mentioned as the owner of the relevant plot of land. it claimed that the title had been issued in error since c. had moved to an apartment provided by the town and was no longer eligible to obtain such land. following this relocation, the cadastre office was supposed to remove c.’s title from the list, which it had failed to do. the two court actions were joined by the court on 6 november 2006. on 4 october 2007 the chișinău court of appeal overturned that judgment, accepting the appeal lodged by the mayor’s office. moreover, the court rejected the applicant’s claim for extending the time-limit for accepting her brother’s inheritance, finding that she had missed it without a valid reason. the general limitation period for defending, by a court action, against the breach of a person’s rights (prescripția) is of three years ...”“article 78. the relevant provisions of the civil code (in force from 12 june 2003) read as follows:“article 7. (1)  the civil law has no retroactive effect. ...(6)  the provisions of the new law concerning limitation periods ... shall apply to limitation periods which started before the date of entry into force of the new law, but did not end before that date. ... the start, the suspension and the interruption of the limitation period shall be determined under the old law for the period before the entry into force of the new law.
following judicial proceedings which ended with a final judgment of the bălţi court of appeal of 8 december 2009, the applicant company obtained a final ruling obliging the cadastral authority to register immovable property privatised by it in 1999 and in 2004 in its name. on an unspecified date the defendant in the proceedings lodged a request for a review of the judgment of 8 december 2009, seeking its annulment on the grounds that in a technical report dated 25 may 2009 it had been stated that the immovable property in question did not qualify as immovable property (“the review request”). on 24 august 2010 the bălţi court of appeal dismissed the review request on the grounds that the information contained in the technical report of 25 may 2009 did not qualify as new and relevant information which could not have been obtained before the delivery of the final judgment in the case. on 22 december 2010 the supreme court quashed the above judgment and ordered a re-examination of the review request. on 16 november 2011 the chişinău court of appeal re-examined the review request and allowed it. the court relied on grounds other than those relied upon by the defendant in framing the request. in particular, the court relied on a government decision from 2005, in accordance with which the disputed goods had been transferred to the defendant’s control. the court quashed the final judgment of 8 december 2009 and ordered a fresh examination of the case. on 16 august 2012, after examining the merits of the case, the edineţ district court again found in favour of the applicant company and required the cadastral authority to register some of the immovable property privatised by the applicant company in 1999 and in 2004 in its name. the cadastral authority challenged that judgment by lodging an appeal and the proceedings are still pending.
the first applicant, mr evghenii antonov, is a russian national who was born in 1979 and lives in tiraspol. the second applicant, mrs iryna antonova, is a ukrainian national who was born in 1954 and lives in tiraspol. the facts of the case, as submitted by the applicants, may be summarised as follows. the first applicant was arrested in tiraspol in august 2009 and accused of having in his possession a hunter’s knife and a packet of marijuana. a few days after his arrest the first applicant called the second applicant and asked her to bring him food and warm clothes. further complaints to the moldovan, russian and “mrt” authorities were unsuccessful. he was released in 2007 with an undertaking not to leave the city without permission. however, he left to work abroad and was rearrested on 13 september 2009, when he returned home. he was initially held in the pre-trial detention centre of the “mrt” ministry of internal affairs (“ivs tiraspol”), then moved to the hlinaia prison in grigoriopol. she alleged that on 16 october 2009 a special riot police force entered the prison and beat up the prisoners. the osce was refused access to ivs tiraspol on 19 october 2009. in reply to the second applicant’s letter of 12 october 2009, asking for permission to see the first applicant, on 29 october 2009 the prosecutor’s office of the “mrt” replied that “under [the applicable legislation] the investigator is not under an obligation to authorise the meeting of detainees with their relatives. the second applicant submitted that all the food and other items which she had attempted to send to the first applicant had been rejected by the prison administration or destroyed. on 13 october 2009 the second applicant was told by the prison staff that no food was necessary for the detainees since they were on hunger strike. in letters to the council of europe and to the centre for human rights the second applicant noted that she had seen the first applicant covered in blood and with bruises on his head.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in püspökladány. according to the file produced in the subsequent criminal proceedings, the applicant refused to take a breathalyser test for alcohol. at the police station the applicant started to insult the police officers and was handcuffed again. he also issued a medical report on the applicant’s injuries. on 22 april 2010 the applicant was fined 50,000 hungarian forints (huf – approximately 180 euros (eur)) for the minor offence of failing to comply with lawful police measures. furthermore, in a judgment of 15 november 2011 the püspökladány district court found the applicant guilty of disorderly conduct, drink-driving and violence against a representative of a public authority. he was sentenced to two years and three months’ imprisonment. the applicant challenged the evidence obtained through the urine test, and the court found it established that he had consented to the use of the catheter, as evidenced by five or six witness testimonies, and he had only withdrawn his consent upon realising that the intervention was painful. on 11 march 2010 the applicant lodged a criminal complaint against the police officers involved in the incident, alleging that they had interrogated him by subjecting him to ill-treatment – beating him, using handcuffs and leg restraints, and forcibly taking blood samples from him and urine samples by catheterisation. by a decision of 10 january 2011 the hajdú bihar county chief public prosecutor’s office dismissed the applicant’s complaint, endorsing the findings of the first-instance authority. it forwarded its opinion to the commander of the national police service. on 7 february 2012 the budapest regional administrative and labour court dismissed his action. if an examination was considered invasive, oral consent was not sufficient. it had been up to the doctor and not the police officers to decide on the method by which to take a sample. the applicant lodged a petition for review with the kúria, arguing that the commander of the national police service had failed to establish the facts of the case.
the applicants were born in 1971 and 1976 and are detained in lipcani. the investigation led to a moldovan national, a.b., during questioning by the german police, a.b., who was a suspect, declared that the murder had been committed by the applicants who had beaten up the victim and strangled him. after the murder, the applicants manipulated the german family into believing that the victim had been arrested by police in another part of germany and that he needed the money. on 29 december 2008 the botanica district court acquitted the applicants of murder charges that had been brought against them. the court found that the only piece of evidence presented by the prosecutor in support of the accusation against the applicants was the statements made by a.b. in particular, he had stated to the german police that he had not been present when the victim’s body had been thrown into the river. however, the applicants were found guilty of fraud as a result of the fact that they had manipulated the german family with whom the victim’s money had been deposited, and had appropriated the money. on 25 february 2010 the chişinău court of appeal allowed an appeal by the prosecutor and reversed the judgment of the lower court in so far as it concerned the murder charges. ’s statements given before the german police in evidence and found the applicants guilty of murder. ’s statements to be reliable because they had been made before an investigating judge. the applicants were sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. in a court hearing and address questions to him. on whose evidence their convictions had been based.
the applicant, who was born in 1948, lives in corjova, a village under the formal control of moldovan authorities, but where agents of the self‑proclaimed “transdniestrian moldovan republic” (“mrt”, see ilaşcu and others v. moldova and russia [gc], no. on 3 june 2007 local elections were to be held in moldova, including in corjova. the applicant, who is an ambulance driver, submitted his candidature for the position of mayor of corjova. on 1 june 2007, at 11 p.m., the applicant’s ambulance was stopped by the “mrt” road militia and his documents (moldovan national identity card and driving licence) were taken away from him without any explanation. he was then arrested and placed in a detention cell. a few hours later a person came to his cell and, without presenting himself, asked him about his work and his electoral propaganda. the applicant later found out that the visitor had been a judge and that, following that discussion in the cell, the judge adopted a decision, finding him guilty of the administrative offence of unlawful electoral propaganda and sentencing him to 15 days’ administrative detention. during his detention the applicant was placed in a cell which, according to him was damp and cold. however, their requests to transmit food to him were allegedly rejected. on 17 june 2007 the applicant was released from detention and he was issued with a copy of the decision of 2 june 2007. the time-limit for lodging an appeal had already expired by that time. upon release, he was allegedly coughing and was diagnosed with chronic acute bronchitis. he also claims that his eyesight worsened considerably. based on this complaint, a criminal investigation was initiated on 12 june 2007, the applicant and witnesses were subsequently heard. three high-ranking “mrt” officers were charged and were declared wanted persons.
the applicant was born in 1980 and lives in grimăncăuți. the facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows. the applicant is a farmer who grows and sells potatoes. the moldovan police arrived after the impugned event. according to the applicant, an officer of the moldovan police was present and did not interfere. the court sentenced him to three days’ detention. he was refused the right to be assisted by a lawyer when preparing for the hearing, and a court-appointed lawyer was only present at the court hearing, not assisting him in any manner. at his request, on 17 march 2008 he obtained a copy of that decision. the case was sent for re-examination by the lower court. the applicant was not informed of that decision. on the same day the court rejected the applicant’s appeal against the decision of 6 february 2008, finding that he had been arrested on the territory of the city of bender after refusing to abide by orders of the “mrt” customs authority. he asked for the criminal prosecution of those responsible. on 11 february 2008 the applicant sent letters to various embassies, including that of the russian federation, thanking them for their intervention into the case by bringing the matter before the joint control commission.[1] following this alleged intervention the applicant’s car and merchandise were returned to him. on 30 may 2013 the investigation was resumed and was pending by the time of the last submissions made to the court (december 2013). the parties did not inform the court of any subsequent developments in that regard.
the applicant was born in 1972 and is detained in orsk. noticed bruises under the applicant’s eye and on a lip. at the station the applicant was shown into room 31 for an “explanatory conversation” (разъяснительная беседа) with captain shch. noticed that the applicant had a black eye and asked about its origin. this time he added that after he had punched sh., according to one source, in the morning of, or, according to another source, at 2–3 p.m. on 23 december 2004 the applicant was arrested by three officers, two young fair-haired ones, and an older one wearing a moustache. the beatings left him bleeding with a burst eardrum, a black eye, split lips, and several chipped teeth. had struck each other in the face and that the police had tortured him. the internal inquiry concluded that the applicant had not been ill‑treated. interviewed the applicant (assisted by counsel) and investigator po. based on the gathered evidence, he concluded that the applicant had been injured before he had been brought to sovietsky police station, and thus the officers had no case to answer. at the same time, the investigator decided not to prosecute the applicant for falsely accusing the officers because he had been honestly mistaken that they had wronged him. on 26 april 2005 the oktyabriskiy district court of orsk found the applicant guilty of murder and theft. to death while they had been drinking in sh. in january 2008 the applicant’s representative, mr kiryukhin applied for judicial review of the decision not to institute criminal proceedings against the operatives.
the applicants were born in 1965, 1977 and 1976 respectively. the third applicant lives in shilka in the zabaykalskiy region. the judgment was upheld on appeal by the supreme court of russia on 19 june 2003. the first applicant did not allege in his appeal arguments that the composition of the first-instance court had been unlawful. his sentence was left essentially unchanged. thereafter, in an attempt to contest the lawfulness of his conviction on the above-mentioned grounds, he requested that the prosecutor’s office of the republic of buryatiya institute supervisory review proceedings with a view to setting aside the judgment of 21 may 2002. the details of the third applicant’s criminal history are unknown. the screenshots show that in both cells there was a cctv camera installed above the door, at ceiling level, in such a manner that the entire cell was clearly visible, including the bed. the applicant submitted that the prison guard who monitored his cell was a woman, as at times he could hear her giving him orders via loudspeaker. the cell was under permanent surveillance by a cctv camera operated by female guards. a screenshot of the cctv camera submitted by the third applicant shows that it was installed above the entrance door, at ceiling level, in such a manner that the entire cell was clearly visible, including, at least in part, the bed. in a judgment of 5 july 2013 the district court dismissed the third applicant’s complaint. it found it established that the third applicant’s cell and all the other cells in pre-trial detention centre iz-1 were equipped with cctv cameras located under the ceiling for the purposes of surveillance of detainees. 204-dsp of 3 november 2005 (see paragraph 36 below). the district court also pointed out that decision no.
